Item 1A.
Risk Factors

A description of the risk factors associated with our business is set forth below.
The list is not exhaustive, and you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our common stock.
If we are unsuccessful at executing the separation and transition of the Enterprise Security Business assets we sold to Broadcom Inc. (the Broadcom sale), as well as our business challenges and our business and results of operations may be adversely affected and our ability to invest in and grow our business could be limited.
For the last several years, we have experienced transitions in our business with the integration of two major acquisitions, the completion of several smaller acquisitions, and the divestiture of two businesses, two of which comprised substantially whole operating segments.
These transitions have involved significant turnover in management and other key personnel and changes in our strategic direction.
Transitions of this type can be disruptive, result in the loss of focus and employee morale and make the execution of business strategies more difficult.
We have made commitments to Broadcom to provide transition services and certain threat intelligence data as has historically been provided to the Enterprise Security business.
We may experience delays in the anticipated timing of activities related to such transitions and higher than expected or unanticipated execution costs.
If we do not succeed in these efforts, or if these efforts are more costly or time-consuming than expected, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected, which could limit our ability to invest in and grow our business.
We are dependent upon Broadcom for certain engineering services, which are critical to our products and business.
Our endpoint security solution has historically relied upon certain threat analytics software engines and other software (the Engine-Related Services) that have been developed and provided by engineering teams that have transferred to Broadcom as part of the Broadcom sale.
The technology, including source code, at issue is shared, and pursuant to the terms of the Broadcom sale, we retain rights to use, modify, enhance and create derivative works from such technology.
Broadcom has committed to provide these Engine-Related Services under a transition services agreement in substantially to the same extent and in substantially the same manner that have been historically provided.
As a result, we are dependent on Broadcom for services and technology that are critical to our business, and if Broadcom fails to deliver these Engine-Related Services it would result in significant business disruption, and our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected.
We may not achieve the intended benefits of the Broadcom sale.
We may not realize some or all of the anticipated benefits from the Broadcom sale.
The resource constraints as a result of our focus on completing the transaction, which included the loss of employees, could have a continuing impact on the execution of our business strategy and our overall operating results.
Further, our remaining employees may become concerned about the future of our remaining operations and lose focus or seek other employment.
Additionally, in connection with the divestiture, our Board of Directors committed to returning the proceeds of the Broadcom sale to stockholders in the form of a capital return program, including a special dividend of $12 per share and the August 2019 increase of our existing share repurchase authorization from $500 million to $1.6 billion.
The use of proceeds in this manner could impair our future financial growth.
Any cost reduction initiatives that we undertake may not deliver the results we expect, and these actions may adversely affect our business.
On November 5, 2019, in connection with the strategic decision to divest our enterprise business, our Board of Directors approved a restructuring plan (the November 2019 Plan).
Actions under this plan will include the reduction of our workforce by approximately 3,100 employees, as well as asset impairments, contract terminations, facilities closures, and the sale of underutilized facilities.
We estimate that we will incur total costs of $800 million in connection with the November 2019 Plan of which approximately $350 million are expected to consist of cash expenditures for severance and termination benefits.
These actions are expected to be completed within the next twelve months.
This initiative could result in disruptions to our operations.
Any cost-cutting measures could also negatively impact our business by delaying the introduction of new products or technologies, interrupting service of additional products, or impacting employee retention.
In addition, we cannot be sure that the cost reduction and streamlining initiatives will be as successful in reducing our overall expenses as we expect or that additional costs will not offset any such reductions or streamlining of our operations.
If our operating costs are higher than we expect if the expected proceeds from the sale of under-utilized assets do not meet expectations, or we do not maintain adequate control of our costs and expenses, our results of operations will suffer.
Our future results of operations are dependent solely on our consumer operations and will differ materially from our previous results.
The Enterprise Security business generated approximately 49% of our total revenue for fiscal 2019, and approximately 53% of our total revenue for fiscal 2018.
Accordingly, our future financial results will differ materially from our previous results since our future financial results are dependent solely on our consumer operations.
Any downturn in our consumer business could have a material adverse effect on our future operating results and financial condition and could materially and adversely affect the trading price of our outstanding securities.
If we are not able to retain and attract consumers for our consumer solutions, our financial performance will be impaired.
We are subject to fluctuations in demand for our consumer solutions (which we refer to herein going forward as our “solutions”) due to a variety of factors, including market transitions, general economic conditions, competition, product obsolescence, technological change, shifts in buying patterns, public awareness of security threats to IT systems, and other factors.
While such factors may, in some periods, increase revenues, fluctuations in demand can also negatively impact our revenues.
Our success is based on our ability to retain current customers and attract new customers.
If demand for our solutions declines, whether due to general economic conditions, a shift in buying patterns or otherwise, our revenues and margins would likely be adversely affected.
Fluctuations in our quarterly financial results have affected the trading price of our outstanding securities in the past and could affect the trading price of our outstanding securities in the future.
Our quarterly financial results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to vary in the future due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control.
If our quarterly financial results or our predictions of future financial results fail to meet our expectations or the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the trading price of our outstanding securities could be negatively affected.
Volatility in our quarterly financial results may make it more difficult for us to raise capital in the future or pursue acquisitions.
Our operating results for prior periods may not be effective predictors of our future performance.
•Fluctuations in demand for our solutions;

•Fluctuations in advertising and marketing expense;

•Entry of new competition into our markets;

•Our ability to achieve targeted operating income and margins and revenues;

•Competitive pricing pressure for one or more of our solutions;

•Our ability to timely complete the release of new or enhanced versions of our solutions;

•The number, severity, and timing of threat outbreaks (e.g.
worms, viruses, malware, ransomware, and other malicious threats) and cyber security incidents (e.g., large scale data breaches);

•Loss of customers or strategic partners;

•Changes in the mix or type of solutions and subscriptions sold and changes in consumer retention rates;

•The rate of adoption of new technologies and new releases of operating systems, and new business processes;

•Consumer confidence and spending changes, which could be impacted by market changes and general economic conditions, among other reasons;

•The impact of litigation, regulatory inquiries, or investigations;

•The timing and extent of significant restructuring charges;

•The impact of acquisitions and divestitures and our ability to achieve expected synergies or attendant cost savings;

•Disruptions in our business operations or target markets caused by, among other things, terrorism or other intentional acts, outbreaks of disease, or earthquakes, floods, or other natural disasters;

•Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;

•Movements in interest rates; and

•Changes in tax laws, rules, and regulations.
Any of the foregoing factors could cause the trading price of our outstanding securities to fluctuate significantly.
If we are unable to develop new and enhanced solutions that achieve widespread market acceptance, or if we are unable to continually improve the performance, features, and reliability of our existing solutions or adapt our business model to keep pace with industry trends, our competitive position may weaken, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected.
Our future success depends on our ability to effectively respond to the rapidly changing needs of our customers, as well as competitive technological developments and industry changes, by developing or introducing new and enhanced solutions on a timely basis.
•Lengthy development cycles;

•Evolving industry standards and technological developments by our competitors and customers;

•Evolving platforms, operating systems, and hardware products, such as mobile devices, and related product and service interoperability challenges;

•Entering into new or unproven markets; and

•Executing new product and service strategies.
If we are not successful in managing these risks and challenges, or if our new or improved solutions are not technologically competitive or do not achieve market acceptance, our business and operating results could be adversely affected.
If we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, lose key personnel, fail to integrate replacement personnel successfully, or fail to manage our employee base effectively, we may be unable to develop new and enhanced solutions, effectively manage or expand our business, or increase our revenues.
Our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain key management, technical (including cyber-security experts), sales, marketing, finance, and other personnel.
Our officers and other key personnel are employees-at-will and we generally do not have employment or non-compete agreements with our employees, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain them.
Competition for people with the specific skills that we require is significant, and we may face new and unexpected difficulties in attracting, retaining, and motivating employees in connection with the planned relocation of our headquarters outside of the Silicon Valley.
In connection with the Broadcom sale, we experienced employee attrition and related difficulties and these difficulties may continue or increase following its consummation.
In order to attract and retain personnel in a competitive marketplace, we must provide competitive pay packages, including cash and equity-based compensation.
Additionally, changes in immigration laws could impair our ability to attract and retain highly qualified employees.
If we fail to attract new personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business, results of operations and future growth prospects could suffer.
The volatility in our stock price may from time to time adversely affect our ability to recruit or retain employees.
In addition, we may be unable to obtain required stockholder approvals of future increases in the number of shares required for issuance under our equity compensation plans.
As a result, we may issue fewer equity-based incentives and may be impaired in our efforts to attract and retain necessary personnel.
If we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees, or conversely, if we fail to manage employee performance or reduce staffing levels when required by market conditions, our business and operating results could be adversely affected.
Effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success.
Failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution.
From time to time, key personnel leave our company and the frequency and number of such departures has widely varied and have resulted in significant changes to our executive leadership team.
For example, we recently announced that Rick Hill, our interim President and CEO is stepping down and will be succeeded by our CFO, Vincent Pilette, and that Samir Kapuria has been named President and Matt Brown has been named interim Chief Financial Officer.
Although we strive to reduce the negative impact of changes in our leadership, the loss of any key employee could result in significant disruptions to our operations, including adversely affecting the timeliness of product releases, the successful implementation and completion of company initiatives, our internal control over financial reporting, and our results of operations.
In addition, hiring, training, and successfully integrating replacement sales and other personnel could be time consuming and expensive, may cause additional disruptions to our operations, and may be unsuccessful, which could negatively impact future financial results.
We operate in a highly competitive environment, and our competitors may gain market share in the markets for our solutions that could adversely affect our business and cause our revenues to decline.
We operate in intensely competitive markets that experience rapid technological developments, changes in industry standards, changes in customer requirements, and frequent new product introductions and improvements.
If we are unable to anticipate or react to these competitive challenges, or if existing or new competitors gain market share in any of our markets, our competitive position could weaken, and we could experience a decline in our revenues that could adversely affect our business 

and operating results.
To compete successfully, we must maintain an innovative research and development effort to develop new solutions and enhance our existing solutions, effectively adapt to changes in the technology or product rights held by our competitors, appropriately respond to competitive strategies, and effectively adapt to technological changes and changes in the ways that our information is accessed, used, and stored by our customers.
If we are unsuccessful in responding to our competitors or to changing technological and customer demands, our competitive position and our financial results could be adversely affected.
Our competitors include software vendors that offer solutions that directly compete with our offerings.
In addition to competing with these vendors directly for sales to end-users of our solutions, we compete with them for the opportunity to have our solutions bundled with the offerings of our strategic partners, such as computer hardware original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and internet service providers (ISPs).
Our competitors could gain market share from us if any of these strategic partners replace our solutions with those of our competitors or if these partners more actively promote our competitors’ solutions than our own.
In addition, software vendors who have bundled our solutions with theirs may choose to bundle their solutions with their own or other vendors’ solutions or may limit our access to standard interfaces and inhibit our ability to develop solutions for their platform.
In the future, further product development by these vendors could cause our solutions to become redundant, which could significantly impact our sales and financial results.
We face growing competition from other technology companies, as well as from companies in the identity threat protection space such as credit bureaus.
Many of these competitors are increasingly developing and incorporating into their products data protection software that competes at some levels with our offerings.
Our competitive position could be adversely affected to the extent that our customers perceive the functionality incorporated into these products as replacing the need for our solutions.
Security protection is also offered by some of our competitors at prices lower than our prices or, in some cases is offered free of charge.
Some companies offer lower-priced or free security products within their computer hardware or software products.
Our competitive position could be adversely affected to the extent that our customers perceive these lower cost or free security products as replacing the need for more effective, full featured solutions, such as those that we provide.
The expansion of these competitive trends could have a significant negative impact on our revenues and operating results by causing, among other things, price reductions of our solutions, reduced profitability, and loss of market share.
Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, sales, marketing, or other resources than we do and consequently, may have the ability to influence customers to purchase their products instead of ours.
Further consolidation within our industry or other changes in the competitive environment could result in larger competitors that compete with us on several levels.
We also face competition from many smaller companies that specialize in particular segments of the markets in which we compete.
We invest in research and development activities in both the short and long term, and these investments may achieve delayed, or lower than expected, benefits which could harm our operating results.
While we continue to focus on managing our costs and expenses, we also continue to invest significantly in research and development activities, in both the short and long term, as we focus on organic growth through internal innovation in each of our business segments.
We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position, and that the level of these investments will increase in future periods.
We recognize the costs associated with these research and development investments earlier than the anticipated benefits, and the return on these investments may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than we expect.
If we do not achieve the benefits anticipated from these investments, or if the achievement of these benefits is delayed, our operating results may be adversely affected.
Changes in industry structure and market conditions could lead to charges related to discontinuance of certain of our products or businesses and asset impairments.
In response to changes in industry structure and market conditions and in connection with the Broadcom sale, we may be required to strategically reallocate our resources and consider restructuring, disposing of, or otherwise exiting certain businesses.
Any decision to limit investment in or dispose of or otherwise exit businesses may result in the recording of special charges, such as inventory and technology-related write-offs, workforce reduction costs, charges relating to consolidation of excess facilities, or claims from third parties who were resellers or users of discontinued products.
Our estimates with respect to the useful life or ultimate recoverability of our carrying basis of assets, including purchased intangible assets, could change as a result of such assessments and decisions.
Although in certain instances our vendor agreements allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs, our loss contingencies may include liabilities for contracts that we cannot cancel, reschedule or adjust with suppliers.
Further, our estimates relating to the liabilities for excess facilities are affected by changes in real estate market conditions.
Additionally, we are required to evaluate goodwill impairment on an annual basis and between annual evaluations in certain circumstances, and future goodwill impairment evaluations may result in a charge to earnings.
Matters relating to or arising from our completed Audit Committee Investigation, including regulatory investigations and proceedings, litigation matters, and potential additional expenses, may adversely affect our business and results of operations.
As previously disclosed in our public filings, the Audit Committee completed its internal investigation in September 2018.
In connection with the Audit Committee Investigation, we voluntarily contacted the SEC.
The SEC commenced a formal investigation, and we continue to cooperate with that investigation.
The outcome of such an investigation is difficult to predict.
If the SEC commences legal action, we could be required to pay significant penalties and become subject to injunctions, a cease and desist order, and other equitable remedies.
We can provide no assurances as to the outcome of any governmental investigation.
We have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant expenses related to legal and other professional services in connection with the ongoing SEC investigation, which may continue to adversely affect our business and financial condition.
In addition, securities class actions and other lawsuits have been filed against us, our directors, and officers (see also, “We are subject to pending securities class action and stockholder derivative legal proceedings .
.” below).
The outcome of the securities class actions and other litigation and regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions is difficult to predict, and the cost to defend, settle, or otherwise resolve these matters may be significant.
Plaintiffs or regulatory agencies or authorities in these matters may seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts or seek to impose sanctions, including significant monetary penalties.
The monetary and other impact of these litigations, proceedings, or actions may remain unknown for substantial periods of time.
Further, an unfavorable resolution of litigations, proceedings or actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations and cash flows.
Any future investigations or additional lawsuits may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.
We are subject to pending securities class action and stockholder derivative legal proceedings that may adversely affect our business.
Several securities class action and purported derivative lawsuits have been filed against us arising out of the announcement of the Audit Committee Investigation.
In addition, we have received demands from purported stockholders to inspect corporate books and records under Delaware law.
No specific amounts of damages have been alleged in these lawsuits.
We will continue to incur legal fees in connection with these pending cases, including expenses for the reimbursement of legal fees of present and former officers and directors under indemnification obligations.
The expense of continuing to defend such litigation may be significant.
We intend to defend these lawsuits vigorously, but there can be no assurance that we will be successful in any defense.
If any of the lawsuits related to our Audit Committee Investigation are decided adversely, we may be liable for significant damages directly or under our indemnification obligations, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows.
Further, the amount of time that will be required to resolve these lawsuits is unpredictable, and these actions may divert management’s attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could further adversely affect our business, results of operations, and cash flows.
Our indemnification obligations and limitations of our director and officer liability insurance may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.
Under Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, and certain indemnification agreements to which we are a party, we have an obligation to indemnify, or we have otherwise agreed to indemnify, certain of our current and former directors and officers with respect to past, current, and future investigations and litigation.
The scope of our indemnification obligations may be broader than the coverage available under our directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, or there may be insufficient coverage available.
Further, in the event the directors and officers are ultimately determined not to be entitled to indemnification, we may not be able to recover any amounts we previously advanced to them.
We cannot provide any assurances that future indemnification claims, including the cost of fees, penalties or other expenses, will not exceed the limits of our insurance policies, that such claims are covered by the terms of our insurance policies or that our insurance carrier will be able to cover such claims.
Further, should a coverage dispute arise, we may also incur significant expenses in relation to litigating or attempting to resolve any such dispute.
Accordingly, we may incur significant unreimbursed costs to satisfy our indemnification obligations, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
We may need to change our pricing models to compete successfully.
The intense competition we face, in addition to general and economic business conditions, can put pressure on us to change our prices.
If our competitors offer deep discounts on certain solutions or provide offerings that the marketplace considers more valuable, we may need to lower prices in order to compete successfully.
Any such changes may reduce margins and could adversely affect our operating results.
In addition, a weakening of economic conditions or significant uncertainty regarding the stability of financial markets could adversely impact our business, financial condition, and operating results in a number of ways.
Impacts could include pressure to 

lower prices for our solutions, a reduction in the rate of adoption of our solutions by new customers, and a lower rate of current customers purchasing.
Any broad-based change to our prices could cause our revenues to decline or be delayed as our customers adjust to new pricing.
We or our competitors may bundle solutions for promotional purposes or as a long-term go-to-market or pricing strategy.
These practices could, over time, significantly constrain the prices that we can charge for certain of our offerings.
Defects, disruptions or risks related to our offerings could impair our ability to deliver our solutions and could expose us to liability, damage our brand and reputation, or otherwise negatively impact our business.
Our solutions may contain errors or defects that users identify after they begin using them that could result in unanticipated service interruptions, which could harm our reputation and our business.
If any such performance problems occur, customers could elect not to renew, we could lose future sales or customers may make warranty or other claims against us, which could result in an increase in the expense and risk of litigation.
We currently serve our customers from hosting facilities, including third-party hosting facilities, located across the globe.
Damage to, or failure of, any significant element of these hosting facilities could result in interruptions in our service, which could harm our customers and expose us to liability.
The occurrence of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in the delivery of our solutions.
Global climate change may result in certain natural disasters occurring more frequently or with greater intensity, such as drought, wildfires, storms, sea-level rise, and flooding.
Interruptions or failures in our service delivery could cause customers to terminate their subscriptions with us, could adversely affect our renewal rates, and could harm our ability to attract new customers.
Our business would also be harmed if our customers believe that our cloud offerings are unreliable.
Our solutions are complex and operate in a wide variety of environments, systems and configurations, which could result in failures of our solutions to function as designed.
Because we offer very complex solutions, undetected errors, failures or bugs may occur, especially when solutions are first introduced or when new versions are released.
Despite testing by us and others, errors, failures, or bugs may not be found in new solutions or releases until after they are delivered to customers.
In the past, we have discovered software errors, failures, and bugs in certain of our solutions after their introduction and, in some cases, have experienced delayed or lost revenues as a result of these errors.
Errors, failures, or bugs in solutions released by us could result in negative publicity, damage to our brand and reputation, returns, loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products, loss of competitive position, or claims by customers or others.
Alleviating any of these problems could be costly and cause interruptions, delays, or cessation of our subscriptions, which could cause us to lose existing or potential customers and could adversely affect our operating results.
Our products, solutions, systems, and website may be subject to intentional disruption that could adversely impact our reputation and future sales.
Despite our precautions and significant ongoing investments to protect against security risks, data protection breaches, cyber-attacks, and other intentional disruptions of our solutions, we expect to be an ongoing target of attacks specifically designed to impede the performance and availability of our offerings and harm our reputation as a company.
Similarly, experienced computer programmers or other sophisticated individuals or entities, including malicious hackers, state-sponsored organizations, and insider threats including actions by employees and third-party service providers, may attempt to penetrate our network security or the security of our systems and websites and misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions of our services, including the operation of our global civilian cyber intelligence threat network.
Such attempts are increasing in number and in technical sophistication, and if successful could expose us and the affected parties, to risk of loss or misuse of proprietary or confidential information or disruptions of our business operations.
While we invest and devote significant resources to maintain and continually enhance and update our methods to detect and alert us to such breaches, attacks, and disruptions, these efforts may not be sufficient, even with rapid detection, to prevent the damage such a breach of our products, solutions, systems, and websites may cause.
Our inability to successfully recover from a disaster or other business continuity event could impair our ability to deliver our products and services and harm our business.
We are heavily reliant on our technology and infrastructure to provide our products and services to our customers.
For example, we host many of our products using third-party data center facilities, and we do not control the operation of these facilities.
These facilities are vulnerable to damage, interruption, or performance problems from earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, and similar events.
They are also subject to break-ins, computer viruses, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, and other misconduct.
The occurrence of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in the delivery of our products and services.
Furthermore, our business administration, human resources, and finance services depend on the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication, and other related systems and operations.
A disruption or failure of these systems or operations because of a disaster or other business continuity event could cause data to be lost or otherwise delay our ability to complete sales and provide the highest level of service to our customers.
In addition, we could have difficulty producing accurate financial statements on a timely basis, and deficiencies may arise in our internal control over financial reporting, which may impact our ability to certify our financial results, all of which could adversely affect the trading value of our stock.
Although we endeavor to ensure there is redundancy in these systems and that they are regularly backed-up, there are no assurances that data recovery in the event of a disaster would be effective or occur in an efficient manner, including the operation of our global civilian cyber intelligence threat network.
If these systems or their functionality do not operate as we expect them to, we may be required to expend significant resources to make corrections or find alternative sources for performing these functions.
Any errors, defects, disruptions, or other performance problems with our products and services could harm our reputation.
For example, we may experience disruptions, outages, and other performance problems due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human or software errors, capacity constraints due to an overwhelming number of users accessing our websites simultaneously, fraud, or security attacks.
In some instances, we may not be able to identify the cause or causes of these performance problems within an acceptable period of time.
Interruptions in our products and services, including the operation of our global civilian cyber intelligence threat network, could impact our revenues or cause customers to cease doing business with us.
In addition, our business would be harmed if any of the events of this nature caused our customers and potential customers to believe our services are unreliable.
Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our technology infrastructure against damage from business continuity events that could have a significant disruptive effect on our operations.
We could potentially lose customer data or experience material adverse interruptions to our operations or delivery of services to our clients in a disaster recovery scenario.
We collect, use, disclose, store, or otherwise process personal information, which subjects us to privacy and data security laws and contractual commitments, and our actual or perceived failure to comply with such laws and commitments could harm our business.
We collect, use, store or disclose (collectively, process) an increasingly large amount of personal information, including from employees and customers, in connection with the operation of our business, particularly in relation to our identity and information protection offerings.
We process an increasingly high volume, variety, and velocity of personal information as a result of our identity and information protection offerings that rely on large data repositories of personal information and consumer transactions.
The personal information we process is subject to an increasing number of federal, state, local, and foreign laws regarding privacy and data security, as well as contractual commitments.
Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with such obligations may result in governmental enforcement actions, fines, litigation, or public statements against us by consumer advocacy groups or others and could cause our customers to lose trust in us, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business.
Additionally, changes to applicable privacy or data security laws could impact how we process personal information and therefore limit the effectiveness of our solutions or our ability to develop new solutions.
For example, the European Union General Data Protection Regulation imposes more stringent data protection requirements and provides for greater penalties for noncompliance of up to the greater of €20 million or four percent of worldwide annual revenues.
Data protection legislation is also becoming increasingly common in the U.S. at both the federal and state level.
For example, in June 2018, the State of California enacted the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 (the CCPA), which will come into effect on January 1, 2020.
The CCPA requires companies that process information on California residents to make new disclosures to consumers about their data collection, use, and sharing practices, allows consumers to opt out of certain data sharing with third parties, and provides a new cause of action for data breaches.
However, California legislators have stated that they intend to propose amendments to the CCPA, and it remains unclear what, if any, modifications will be made to the CCPA or how it will be interpreted.
Additionally, the Federal Trade Commission (the FTC) and many state attorneys general are interpreting federal and state consumer protection laws to impose standards for the online collection, use, dissemination, and security of data.
The burdens imposed by the CCPA and other similar laws that may be enacted at the federal and state level may require us to modify our data processing practices and policies and to incur substantial expenditures in order to comply.
Global privacy and data protection legislation, enforcement, and policy activity are rapidly expanding and evolving, and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction.
We may be or become subject to data localization laws mandating that data collected in a foreign country be processed and stored only within that country.
If any country in which we have customers were to adopt a data localization law, we could be required to expand our data storage facilities there or build new ones in order to comply.
The expenditure this would require, as well as costs of compliance generally, could harm our financial condition.
Additionally, third parties with whom we work, such as vendors or developers, may violate applicable laws or our policies and such violations can place personal information of our customers at risk.
In addition, our customers may also accidentally disclose their passwords or store them on a device that is lost or stolen, creating the perception that our systems are not secure against third-party access.
This could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business.
In addition, such third parties could be the target of cyberattack and other data breaches which could impact our systems or our customers’ records.
Our acquisitions and divestitures create special risks and challenges that could adversely affect our financial results.
•Complexity, time, and costs associated with managing these transactions, including the integration of acquired business operations, workforce, products, IT systems, and technologies;

•Diversion of management time and attention;

•Loss or termination of employees, including costs associated with the termination or replacement of those employees;

•Assumption of liabilities of the acquired business or assets, including pending or future litigation, investigations or claims related to the acquired business or assets;

•The addition of acquisition-related debt;

•Increased or unexpected costs and working capital requirements;

•Dilution of stock ownership of existing stockholders;

•Unanticipated delays or failure to meet contractual obligations; and

•Substantial accounting charges for acquisition-related costs, amortization of intangible assets, and higher levels of stock-based compensation expense.
We have invested and continue to invest and devote significant resources in the integration of businesses we acquire.
The success of each acquisition depends in part on our ability to realize the anticipated business opportunities, including certain cost savings and operational efficiencies or synergies and growth prospects from integrating these businesses in an efficient and effective manner.
If integration of our acquired businesses is not successful, we may not realize the potential benefits of an acquisition or suffer other adverse effects.
To integrate acquired businesses, we must integrate and manage the personnel and business systems of the acquired operations.
We also must effectively integrate the different cultures of acquired business organizations into our own in a way that aligns various interests and we may need to enter new markets in which we have no or limited experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions.
Moreover, to be successful, large complex acquisitions depend on large-scale product, technology, and sales force integrations that are difficult to complete on a timely basis or at all and may be more susceptible to the special risks and challenges described above.
In addition, we have, and may in the future, divest businesses, product lines, or assets, with the Broadcom sale being a recent example.
Such initiatives may require significant separation activities that could result in the diversion of management’s time and attention, loss of employees, substantial separation costs, and accounting charges for asset impairments.
Any of the foregoing, and other factors, could harm our ability to achieve anticipated levels of profitability or other financial benefits from our acquired or divested businesses, product lines or assets or to realize other anticipated benefits of divestitures or acquisitions.
If we fail to manage our sales and distribution channels effectively, or if our partners choose not to market and sell our solutions to their customers, our operating results could be adversely affected.
We sell our solutions to customers around the world through multi-tiered sales and distribution networks.
•Our resellers and distributors are generally not subject to minimum sales requirements or any obligation to market our solutions to their customers;

•Our reseller and distributor agreements are generally nonexclusive and may be terminated at any time without cause;

•Our resellers and distributors may violate applicable law or regulatory requirements or otherwise cause damage to our reputation through their actions;

•Our resellers and distributors frequently market and distribute competing solutions and may, from time to time, place greater emphasis on the sale of these solutions due to pricing, promotions, and other terms offered by our competitors; and

•Any consolidation of electronics retailers can continue to increase their negotiating power with respect to software providers such as us.
•Our lack of control over the volume of products delivered and the timing of such delivery;

•Most of our OEM partners are not subject to minimum sales requirements.
Generally, our OEM partners do not have any obligation to market our products to their customers;

•Our OEM partners may terminate or renegotiate their arrangements with us and new terms may be less favorable due to competitive conditions in our markets and other factors;

•Sales through our OEM partners are subject to changes in general economic conditions, strategic direction, competitive risks, and other issues that could result in a reduction of OEM sales;

•The development work that we must generally undertake under our agreements with our OEM partners may require us to invest significant resources and incur significant costs with little or no assurance of ever receiving associated revenues;

•The time and expense required for the sales and marketing organizations of our OEM partners to become familiar with our solutions may make it more difficult to introduce those solutions to the market; and

•Our OEM partners may develop, market, and distribute their own solutions and market and distribute products of our competitors, which could reduce our sales.
If we fail to manage our sales and distribution channels successfully, these channels may conflict with one another or otherwise fail to perform as we anticipate, which could reduce our sales and increase our expenses as well as weaken our competitive position.
Some of our distribution partners have experienced financial difficulties in the past, and if our partners suffer financial difficulties in the future because of general economic conditions or for other reasons, these partners may delay paying their obligations to us, and we may have reduced revenues or collections that could adversely affect our operating results.
In addition, reliance on multiple channels subjects us to events that could cause unpredictability in demand, which could increase the risk that we may be unable to plan effectively for the future, and could adversely affect our operating results.
Our solutions are highly regulated, which could impede our ability to market and provide our solutions or adversely affect our business, financial position, and results of operations.
Our solutions are subject to a high degree of regulation, including a wide variety of federal, state, and local laws and regulations, such as the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the Federal Trade Commission Act (FTC Act), and comparable state laws that are patterned after the FTC Act.
Moreover, LifeLock entered into consent decrees and similar arrangements with the FTC and 35 states’ attorneys general in 2010 and a settlement with the FTC in 2015 relating to allegations that certain of LifeLock’s advertising and marketing practices constituted deceptive acts or practices in violation of the FTC Act, which impose additional restrictions on the LifeLock business, including prohibitions against making any misrepresentation of “the means, methods, procedures, effects, effectiveness, coverage, or scope of” LifeLock’s identity theft protection services.
Any of the laws and regulations that apply to our business are subject to revision or new or changed interpretations, and we cannot predict the impact of such changes on our business.
Additionally, the nature of our identity and information protection products subjects us to the broad regulatory, supervisory, and enforcement powers of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau which may exercise authority with respect to our services, or the marketing and servicing of those services, by overseeing our financial institution or credit reporting agency customers and suppliers, or by otherwise exercising its supervisory, regulatory, or enforcement authority over consumer financial products and services.
If we do not protect our proprietary information and prevent third parties from making unauthorized use of our products and technology, our financial results could be harmed.
Most of our software and underlying technology is proprietary.
We seek to protect our proprietary rights through a combination of confidentiality agreements and procedures and through copyright, patent, trademark, and trade secret laws.
However, these measures afford only limited protection and may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by third parties.
Third parties may copy all or portions of our products or otherwise obtain, use, distribute, and sell our proprietary information without authorization.
Third parties may also develop similar or superior technology independently by designing around our patents.
Our shrink-wrap license agreements are not signed by licensees and therefore may be unenforceable under the laws of some jurisdictions.
Furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries do not offer the same level of protection of our proprietary rights as the laws of the U.S., and we may be subject to unauthorized use of our products in those countries.
The unauthorized copying or use of our products or proprietary information could result in reduced sales of our products.
Any legal action to protect proprietary information that we may bring or be engaged in with a strategic partner or vendor could adversely affect our ability to access software, operating system, and hardware platforms of such partner or vendor, or cause such partner or vendor to choose not to offer our products to their customers.
In addition, any legal action to protect proprietary information that we may bring or be engaged in, could be costly, may distract management from day-to-day operations, and may lead to additional claims against us, which could adversely affect our operating results.
From time to time we are a party to lawsuits and investigations, which typically require significant management time and attention and result in significant legal expenses, and which could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.
We have initiated and been named as a party to lawsuits, including patent litigation, class actions, and governmental claims, and we may be named in additional litigation.
For example, the securities class action lawsuit, originally filed on July 22, 2015, against our subsidiary, LifeLock, and other named defendants has been remanded by the Ninth Circuit to the District Court for further proceedings.
The expense of initiating and defending, and in some cases settling, such litigation may be costly and divert management’s attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and cash flows.
In addition, an unfavorable outcome in such litigation could result in significant fines, settlements, monetary damages, or injunctive relief that could negatively impact our ability to conduct our business, results of operations, and cash flows.
Third parties claiming that we infringe their proprietary rights could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and prevent us from selling our products.
From time to time, third parties may claim that we have infringed their intellectual property rights, including claims regarding patents, copyrights, and trademarks.
Because of constant technological change in the segments in which we compete, the extensive patent coverage of existing technologies, and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is possible that the number of these claims may grow.
In addition, former employers of our former, current, or future employees may assert claims that such employees have improperly disclosed to us confidential or proprietary information of these former employers.
Any such claim, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation and distract management from day-to-day operations.
If we are not successful in defending such claims, we could be required to stop selling, delay shipments of, or redesign our products, pay monetary amounts as damages, enter into royalty or licensing arrangements, or satisfy indemnification obligations that we have with some of our customers.
We cannot assure you that any royalty or licensing arrangements that we may seek in such circumstances will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all.
We have made and expect to continue making significant expenditures to investigate, defend, and settle claims related to the use of technology and intellectual property rights as part of our strategy to manage this risk.
In addition, we license and use software from third parties in our business.
These third-party software licenses may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms or at all and may expose us to additional liability.
This liability, or our inability to use any of this third-party software, could result in delivery delays or other disruptions in our business that could materially and adversely affect our operating results.
Changes to our effective tax rate could increase our income tax expense and reduce (increase) our net income (loss).
•Changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws, including impacts of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (H.R.1) (the 2017 Tax Act) arising from future interpretations of the 2017 Tax Act;

•Changes to other tax laws, regulations, and interpretations in multiple jurisdictions in which we operate, including actions resulting from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development's base erosion and profit shifting project, proposed actions by international bodies such as digital services taxation, as well as the requirements of certain tax rulings;

•Changes in the relative proportions of revenues and income before taxes in the various jurisdictions in which we operate that have differing statutory tax rates;

•The tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions and restructuring charges that may cause fluctuations between reporting periods; 

•Tax assessments, or any related tax interest or penalties, that could significantly affect our income tax expense for the period in which the settlements take place; and 

•Taxes arising in connection with the Broadcom sale.
We report our results of operations based on our determination of the aggregate amount of taxes owed in the tax jurisdictions in which we operate.
From time to time, we receive notices that a tax authority in a particular jurisdiction believes that we owe a greater amount of tax than we have reported to such authority.
We are regularly engaged in discussions and sometimes disputes with these tax authorities.
If the ultimate determination of our taxes owed in any of these jurisdictions is for an amount in excess of the tax provision we have recorded or reserved for, our operating results, cash flows, and financial condition could be adversely affected.
We cannot predict our future capital needs, and we may be unable to obtain financing, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.
Adverse economic conditions or a change in our business performance may make it more difficult to obtain financing for our operations, investing activities (including potential acquisitions or divestitures), or financing activities.
Any required financing may 

not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all.
If we raise additional funds by obtaining loans from third parties, the terms of those financing arrangements may include negative covenants or other restrictions on our business that could impair our financial or operational flexibility and would also require us to fund additional interest expense.
If additional financing is not available when required or is not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to successfully develop or enhance our software and services through acquisitions in order to take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, which could have a material adverse effect on our software and services offerings, revenues, results of operations, and financial condition.
Failure to maintain our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity, capital position, ability to hedge certain financial risks, borrowing costs, and access to capital markets.
Our credit risk is evaluated by the major independent rating agencies, and such agencies have in the past and could in the future downgrade our ratings.
We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings, and any additional actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under further review for a downgrade, may have a negative impact on our liquidity, capital position, ability to hedge certain financial risks, and access to capital markets.
In addition, changes by any rating agency to our outlook or credit rating could increase the interest we pay on outstanding or future debt.
There are risks associated with our outstanding and future indebtedness that could adversely affect our financial condition.
•We must use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on the term loans and revolving credit facility, our existing senior notes, and other indebtedness, which reduces funds available to us for other purposes such as working capital, capital expenditures, other general corporate purposes, and potential acquisitions;

•We may be unable to refinance our indebtedness or to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, or general corporate purposes;

•We are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates because borrowings under our senior credit facilities bear interest at variable rates;

•Our leverage may be greater than that of some of our competitors, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage and reduce our flexibility in responding to current and changing industry and financial market conditions;

•We may be more vulnerable to an economic downturn and adverse developments in our business;

•We may be unable to comply with financial and other covenants in our debt agreements, which could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, may result in acceleration of certain of our debt and would have an adverse effect on our business and prospects and could force us into bankruptcy or liquidation; and


There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage any of these risks successfully.
In addition, we conduct a significant portion of our operations through our subsidiaries, which are generally not guarantors of our debt.
Accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness will be dependent in part on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us by dividend, debt repayment, or otherwise.
In general, our subsidiaries will not have any obligation to pay amounts due on our debt or to make funds available for that purpose.
Our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness.
Each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity, and under certain circumstances legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries.
In the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make the required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness.
Changes in the method of determining LIBOR, or the replacement of LIBOR with an alternative reference rate, may adversely affect interest rates on our current or future indebtedness and may otherwise adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.
Certain of our indebtedness is made at variable interest rates that use the London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR (or metrics derived from or related to LIBOR), as a benchmark for establishing the interest rate.
On July 27, 2017, the United Kingdom’s Financial Conduct Authority announced that it intends to stop persuading or compelling banks to submit LIBOR rates after 2021.
These reforms may cause LIBOR to cease to exist, new methods of calculating LIBOR to be established, or alternative reference rates to be established.
The potential consequences cannot be fully predicted and could have an adverse impact on the market value for or value of LIBOR-linked securities, loans, and other financial obligations or extensions of credit held by or due to us.
Changes in market interest rates may influence our financing costs, returns on financial investments and the valuation of derivative contracts and could reduce our earnings and cash flows.
In addition, any transition process may involve, among other things, increased volatility or illiquidity in markets for instruments that rely on LIBOR, reductions in the value of certain instruments or the effectiveness of related transactions such as hedges, increased borrowing costs, uncertainty under applicable documentation, or difficult and costly consent processes.
This could materially and adversely effect our results of operations, cash flows, and liquidity.
We cannot predict the effect of the potential changes to LIBOR or the establishment and use of alternative rates or benchmarks.
Our existing credit agreements impose operating and financial restrictions on us.
•Incur additional debt;

•Create liens on certain assets to secure debt;

•Enter into certain sale and leaseback transactions;

•Pay dividends on or make other distributions in respect of our capital stock or make other restricted payments; and

•Consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets.
All of these covenants may adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, meet or otherwise address our capital needs, pursue business opportunities, react to market conditions, or otherwise restrict activities or business plans.
A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default in respect of the related indebtedness.
If a default occurs, the relevant lenders could elect to declare the indebtedness, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable and, to the extent such indebtedness is secured in the future, proceed against any collateral securing that indebtedness.
Some of our products contain “open source” software, and any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of these open source licenses could negatively affect our business.
Certain of our products are distributed with software licensed by its authors or other third parties under so-called “open source” licenses, which may include, by way of example, the GNU General Public License, GNU Lesser General Public License, the Mozilla Public License, the BSD License, and the Apache License.
Some of these licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the open source software and that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of a particular open source license or other license granting third parties certain rights of further use.
By the terms of certain open source licenses, we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary software if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner.
In addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on origin of the software.
We have established processes to help alleviate these risks, including a review process for screening requests from our development organizations for the use of open source, but we cannot be sure that all open source is submitted for approval prior to use in our products.
In addition, many of the risks associated with usage of open source cannot be eliminated and could, if not properly addressed, negatively affect our business.
