Item 2.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Forward-looking statements and factors that may affect future results

The discussion below contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to safe harbors under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) and the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
Forward-looking statements include references to our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets, as well as statements including words such as “expects,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “predicts,” “goal,” “intent,” “momentum,” “projects,” and similar expressions.
In addition, projections of our future financial performance; anticipated growth and trends in our businesses and in our industries; the anticipated impacts of acquisitions, restructurings, stock repurchases and investment activities; the outcome or impact of pending litigation, claims or disputes; our intent to pay quarterly cash dividends in the future; plans for and anticipated benefits of our solutions; matters arising out of our completed Audit Committee Investigation and the ongoing U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) investigation; and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements.
These statements are only predictions, based on our current expectations about future events and may not prove to be accurate.
We do not undertake any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect events occurring or circumstances arising after the date of this report.
These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and our actual results, performance, or achievements could differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements on the basis of several factors, including those that we discuss in Part II Item 1A, of this quarterly report on Form 10-Q.
We encourage you to read that section carefully.
OVERVIEW

We are a global leader in cyber security and provide cyber security products, services and solutions to organizations and individuals worldwide.
Our Enterprise Security portfolio includes a deep and broad mix of products, services and solutions, delivered as part of an Integrated Cyber Defense Platform, which unifies cloud and on-premises security to provide advanced threat protection and information protection across all endpoints, networks, email, and cloud applications.
Our Cyber Safety Solutions (delivered through our Norton and LifeLock offerings) help consumers protect their information, identities, devices and networks at home and online.
Fiscal calendar


Key financial metrics





•Net revenues decreased 5% primarily as a result of the divestiture of our website security (“WSS”) and public key infrastructure (“PKI”) solutions in the third quarter of fiscal 2018, partially offset by an increase in revenue from our identity and information protection solutions.
•Operating income increased $111 million primarily due to increased revenue from our identity and information protection solutions, and lower stock-based compensation expense and restructuring, transition and other costs, partially offset by the absence in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 of operating income from our divested WSS and PKI solutions.
•Net loss and diluted net loss per share decreased primarily due to increased operating income, partially offset by higher income tax expense.
•Net revenues decreased 3% primarily as a result of the divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions, partially offset by an increase in revenue from our identity and information protection solutions.
•Operating income increased $157 million primarily due to increased revenue from our identity and information protection solutions, and lower stock-based compensation and restructuring, transition and other costs, partially offset by the absence in the first six months of fiscal 2019 of operating income from our divested WSS and PKI solutions.
•Net loss and diluted net loss per share decreased primarily due to increased operating income and a decrease in interest expense, partially offset by an increase in income tax expenses.
•Cash flow from operating activities increased $181 million due to a lower net loss, net of adjustments, and favorable net changes in operating assets and liabilities.
•Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments increased compared to March 30, 2018, primarily due to cash provided by operations.
•Contract liabilities decreased $357 million compared to March 30, 2018, primarily due to a decrease of $169 million in March 30, 2018 balances as a result of the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard, as well as lower billings versus recognized revenue during the first six months of fiscal 2019.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES 

The preparation of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. requires us to make estimates, including judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
We have based our estimates on historical experience and on various assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances.
We evaluate our estimates on a regular basis and make changes accordingly.
Management believes that the accounting estimates employed and the resulting amounts are reasonable; however, actual results may differ from these estimates.
Making estimates and judgments about future events is inherently unpredictable and is subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control.
Should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.
The critical accounting policies and estimates were disclosed in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 30, 2018.
There have been no material changes in the matters for which we make critical accounting estimates in the preparation of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements during the six months ended September 28, 2018, except for changes as a result of the adoption of the new revenue recognition accounting standard.
Revenue recognition

We recognize revenue primarily pursuant to the requirements under the authoritative guidance on contracts with customers.
Revenue recognition requirements are very complex and require us to make estimates and assumptions.
We enter into arrangements with multiple performance obligations, which may include hardware, software licenses, cloud services, support and maintenance, and professional services.
We allocate revenue to each performance obligation on a relative fair value basis based on management’s estimate of stand-alone selling price (“SSP”).
Judgments are required to determine the SSP for each performance obligation.
The determination of SSP is made by taking into consideration observable prices in historical transactions.
When observable prices in historical transactions are not available or are inconsistent, we estimate SSP based on observable prices in historical transactions of similar products, pricing discount practices, product margins, and other factors that may vary over time depending upon the unique facts and circumstances related to each performance obligation.
Changes to the performance obligations in an arrangement, the judgments required to estimate the SSP for the respective performance obligations, and increasing variability in contractual arrangements could materially impact the amount and timing of revenue recognition.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS




Net revenues


Three Months Ended September 28, 2018 Compared with Three Months Ended September 29, 2017 

Net revenues decreased $65 million primarily due to a $112 million decrease in revenue from our Enterprise Security segment, primarily due to the divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions, offset by an increase of $47 million in revenue from our Consumer Digital Safety segment due to increased revenue from identity and information protection solutions.
Six Months Ended September 28, 2018 Compared with Six Months Ended September 29, 2017 

Net revenues decreased $84 million primarily due to a $202 million decrease in revenue from our Enterprise Security segment primarily due to the divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions, offset by an increase of $118 million in revenue from our Consumer Digital Safety segment due to increased revenue from identity and information protection solutions.
Net revenues by geographical region


Percentages may not add up to 100% due to rounding.
The Americas include U.S., Canada and Latin America; EMEA includes Europe, Middle East and Africa; APJ includes Asia Pacific and Japan.
Cost of revenues


Our cost of revenues was relatively flat in each of the three and six months ended September 28, 2018, compared to the corresponding periods in fiscal 2018.
Operating expenses


Three Months Ended September 28, 2018 Compared with Three Months Ended September 29, 2017 

Sales and marketing expense decreased $69 million primarily due to a decrease of $35 million in advertising and promotional expense primarily in our Consumer Digital Safety segment, a decrease of $19 million in stock-based compensation, and a decrease of $9 million in other compensation related expenses, primarily as a result of the divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions.
Research and development expense was relatively flat compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
General and administrative expense decreased $46 million, primarily due to a $41 million decrease in stock-based compensation.
Amortization of intangible assets did not change significantly compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
Restructuring, transition and other costs decreased $41 million due to a decrease of $21 million in transition costs reflecting the absence of separation costs related to our WSS and PKI solutions in the second quarter of fiscal 2019, as well as a decrease of $12 million in restructuring costs.
Six Months Ended September 28, 2018 Compared with Six Months Ended September 29, 2017 

Sales and marketing expense decreased $116 million primarily due to a decrease of $42 million in advertising and promotional expense, primarily in our Consumer Digital Safety segment, a decrease of $31 million in our stock-based compensation expense, and a decrease of $21 million in other compensation related expenses, primarily as a result of the divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions.
Research and development expense was relatively flat compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
General and administrative expense decreased $62 million, primarily due to a $60 million decrease in stock-based compensation.
Amortization of intangible assets did not change significantly compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
Restructuring, transition and other costs decreased $33 million primarily due to a decrease of $34 million in restructuring costs.
Transition costs increased $8 million, due to higher consulting costs associated with our enterprise resource planning and supporting systems projects, offset by the absence in fiscal 2019 of separation costs related to the divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions.
Non-operating expense, net


Three Months Ended September 28, 2018 Compared with Three Months Ended September 29, 2017 

Non-operating expense, net, increased by $14 million primarily due to a $34 million loss during the second quarter of fiscal 2019 from our equity interest received in connection with the divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions.
Six Months Ended September 28, 2018 Compared with Six Months Ended September 29, 2017 

Non-operating expense, net, decreased by $5 million primarily due to a $37 million decrease in interest expense as a result of lower outstanding borrowings due to repayments during fiscal 2018, partially offset by a $60 million loss during the first six months of fiscal 2019 from our equity interest.
Provision for income taxes


For each of the three and six months ended September 28, 2018, we recorded an income tax expense on discontinued operations of $4 million.
For the three and six months ended September 29, 2017, we recorded an income tax benefit on discontinued operations of $4 million and an income tax expense on discontinued operations of $37 million, respectively.
Our effective tax rate for continuing operations for the three and six months ended September 28, 2018 was based on the statutory tax rate of 21%.
Our effective tax rate for continuing operations for the three and six months ended September 28, 2018 differs from the federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to the tax expense from one-time adjustments for newly issued guidance on the Act and other changes in response to tax reform, partially offset by the benefits of lower-taxed international earnings, the research and development tax credit and foreign derived intangible income deduction.
Our effective tax rate for continuing operations for the three and six months ended September 29, 2017 differs from the federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to the benefits of lower-taxed international earnings, the research and development tax credit, and excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation, partially offset by various permanent differences.
See Note 11 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on impacts from the Act.
We are a U.S.-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple U.S. and international tax jurisdictions.
A substantial portion of our international earnings were generated from subsidiaries organized in Ireland and Singapore.
Our results of operations would be adversely affected to the extent that our geographical mix of income becomes more weighted toward jurisdictions with higher tax rates and would be favorably affected to the extent the relative geographic mix shifts to lower tax jurisdictions.
Any change in our mix of earnings is dependent upon many factors and is therefore difficult to predict.
The timing of the resolution of income tax examinations is highly uncertain, and the amounts ultimately paid, if any, upon resolution of the issues raised by the taxing authorities may differ materially from the amounts accrued for each year.
Although 

potential resolution of uncertain tax positions involve multiple tax periods and jurisdictions, it is reasonably possible that the gross unrecognized tax benefits related to these audits could decrease, whether by payment, release, or a combination of both, in the next 12 months by $13 million, which could reduce our income tax provision and therefore benefit the resulting effective tax rate.
We continue to monitor the progress of ongoing income tax controversies and the impact, if any, of the expected expiration of the statute of limitations in various taxing jurisdictions.
Segment operating results

We do not allocate to our operating segments certain operating expenses that we manage separately at the corporate level and are not used in evaluating the results of, or in allocating resources to, our segments.
These unallocated expenses primarily consist of stock-based compensation expense, amortization of intangible assets, restructuring, transition and other costs, and acquisition-related costs in all periods presented.
See Note 15 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.
Enterprise Security Segment


Three Months Ended September 28, 2018 Compared with Three Months Ended September 29, 2017 

Revenue decreased $112 million, primarily due to a $100 million decrease in revenue as a result of the fiscal 2018 divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions.
Operating income decreased $67 million primarily due to the divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions which contributed $59 million to segment operating income in the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
Six Months Ended September 28, 2018 Compared with Six Months Ended September 29, 2017 

Revenue decreased $202 million, primarily due to a $203 million decrease in revenue as a result of the fiscal 2018 divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions.
Operating income decreased $105 million primarily due to the divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions which contributed $118 million to segment operating income in the first six months of fiscal 2018.
Consumer Digital Safety Segment


Three Months Ended September 28, 2018 Compared with Three Months Ended September 29, 2017 

Revenue increased $47 million due to a $58 million increase from our identity and information protection solutions, offset by a $11 million decrease from our consumer security products.
Revenue per customer increased whereas customer count decreased slightly.
Operating income increased $34 million, primarily due to increased revenue and decreased advertising and promotional expense, partially offset by increased allocated corporate costs.
Six Months Ended September 28, 2018 Compared with Six Months Ended September 29, 2017 

Revenue increased $118 million due to a $131 million increase from our identity and information protection solutions, offset by a $13 million decrease from our consumer security products.
Operating income increased $67 million, primarily due to increased revenue and decreased advertising and promotional expense, partially offset by increased allocated corporate costs.
LIQUIDITY, CAPITAL RESOURCES AND CASH REQUIREMENTS 

Liquidity

We have historically relied on cash generated from operations, borrowings under credit facilities, issuances of debt, and proceeds from divestitures for our liquidity needs.
As of September 28, 2018, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $2.4 billion, of which $698 million was held by our foreign subsidiaries.
Our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments are managed with the objective to preserve principal, maintain liquidity, and generate investment returns.
Under the transition tax of the Act, we have treated all previously untaxed foreign earnings as taxable in the U.S. and as a result we recorded a provisional liability for the one-time transition tax, payable in annual installments through July 2025, of $920 million in fiscal 2019.
The move to a participation exemption system under the Act allows us to make distributions of non-U.S. earnings to the U.S. without incurring additional U.S. federal tax, however these distributions may be subject to applicable State or non-U.S. taxes.
We have not recognized deferred income taxes for local country income and withholding taxes that could be incurred on distributions of certain non-U.S. earnings or for outside basis differences in our subsidiaries, because we plan to indefinitely reinvest such earnings and basis differences.
We also have an undrawn credit facility of $1.0 billion which expires in May 2021.
Our principal cash requirements are primarily to meet our working capital needs, support on-going business activities, including the payment of taxes, fund capital expenditures, service existing debt, and invest in business acquisitions.
As a part of our plan to deleverage our balance sheet, we may from time to time make optional repayments of our debt obligations, which may include repurchases of our outstanding debt, depending on various factors such as market conditions.
Our capital allocation strategy is to balance driving stockholder returns, managing financial risk, and preserving our flexibility to pursue strategic options, including acquisitions.
Historically this has included a quarterly cash dividend, the repayment of debt and the repurchase of our common stock.
Cash flows



Cash from operating activities

Our cash flows for the first six months of fiscal 2019 reflected a net loss of $68 million adjusted by non-cash items, including amortization and depreciation of $305 million, and stock-based compensation of $210 million.
Our cash flows in the first six months of fiscal 2018 reflected a net loss of $145 million, adjusted by non-cash items, including amortization and depreciation of $328 million, stock-based compensation of $323 million, and a deferred tax benefit of $189 million.
Changes in operating assets and liabilities consisted primarily of a decrease of $286 million in accounts receivable in the first six months of fiscal 2019, reflecting higher collections versus billings.
Cash from investing activities

Our investing activities in the first six months of fiscal 2019 included capital expenditures of $95 million and payments for acquisitions of $17 million, net of cash acquired, partially offset by cash proceeds from maturities and sales of short-term investments of $99 million, while our investing activities in the first six months of fiscal 2018 consisted of capital expenditures of $72 million and net cash payments of $361 million for acquisitions, primarily related to the acquisitions of Fireglass Ltd. and Skycure Ltd., and purchases of short-term investments of $201 million.
Cash from financing activities

Our financing activities in the first six months of fiscal 2019 primarily consisted of payment of dividends and dividend equivalents of $110 million and tax withholding payments related to RSUs of $53 million, compared to $114 million and $83 million, respectively, in the first six months of fiscal 2018.
In addition, we repaid debt of $2.0 billion in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Cash requirements

Debt - As of September 28, 2018, our total outstanding principal amount of indebtedness was $5.1 billion, of which $600 million in principal is payable in the next twelve months, summarized as follows.
See Note 8 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our debt.
Debt covenant compliance.
The Senior Term Loan agreements A-2, A-5 and our revolving credit facility contain customary representations and warranties, affirmative and negative covenants, including compliance with specified financial ratios, non-financial covenants for financial reporting, and restrictions on subsidiary indebtedness, liens, stock repurchases and dividends (with exceptions permitting our regular quarterly dividend).
Our Convertible Senior Notes agreements and the agreement for our 5.0% Senior Note due April 15, 2025 also require us to file periodic reports with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) by specified deadlines.
As of September 28, 2018, we had not met the requirements in the Senior Term Loan agreements A-2, A-5, the revolving credit facility agreement, the Convertible Senior Notes agreements and the agreement for our 5.0% Senior Note due April 15, 2025 to deliver audited financial statements for our fiscal year ended March 30, 2018 and file our Annual Report on Form 10-K for such period with the SEC.
In addition, we subsequently did not meet the requirements under the Convertible Senior Notes agreements and the agreement for our 5.0% Senior Note due April 15, 2025 to file our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for our fiscal quarter ended June 29, 2018 with the SEC by the specified deadline.
On June 22, 2018, we reached an agreement with lenders to waive the financial reporting requirements under the Senior Term Loan agreements A-2, A-5 and the revolving credit facility agreement through October 27, 2018.
On October 26, 2018 we satisfied these requirements for our fiscal year ended March 30, 2018 by filing our Form 10-K for such period with the SEC.
The filing of our Form 10-K on October 26, 2018 and the simultaneous filing herewith of the Form 10-Q for the first quarter ended June 29, 2018 also satisfied our SEC reporting requirements for our year ended March 30, 2018 and our quarter ended June 29, 2018, respectively, under the Convertible Senior Notes agreements and the agreement for our 5.0% Senior Note due April 15, 2025.
Because we expected as of September 28, 2018 that we would comply with all of our debt covenants before any applicable grace periods as defined in the associated indentures for the 5% Notes and the Convertible Senior Notes passed and waivers expired, we have classified all of the associated outstanding debt as long-term debt in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets except for the portion that is due in the twelve months following September 28, 2018.
Dividends.
On November 1, 2018, we announced a cash dividend of $0.075 per share of common stock to be paid in December 2018.
Any future dividends will be subject to the approval of our Board of Directors.
Stock repurchases.
Under our stock repurchase program, we may purchase shares of our outstanding common stock through open market and through accelerated stock repurchase transactions.
As of September 28, 2018, the remaining balance of our stock repurchase authorization was $800 million and does not have an expiration date.
Contractual obligations







Due to the uncertainty with respect to the timing of future cash flows associated with our unrecognized tax benefits and other long-term taxes as of September 28, 2018 we are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the period of cash settlement with the respective taxing authorities.
Therefore, $294 million in long-term income taxes payable has been excluded from the contractual obligations table.
See Note 11 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.
Indemnifications

In the ordinary course of business, we may provide indemnifications of varying scope and terms to customers, vendors, lessors, business partners, subsidiaries and other parties with respect to certain matters, including, but not limited to, losses arising out of our breach of agreements or representations and warranties made by us.
See Note 16 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our indemnifications.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds




Item 6.
Exhibits



†This exhibit is being furnished rather than filed, and shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing, in accordance with Item 601 of Regulation S-K.

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
