Item 4.
Controls and Procedures 


The Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) defines the term “disclosure controls and procedures” to mean a company’s controls and other procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported, within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms.
“Disclosure controls and procedures” include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by an issuer in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the issuer’s management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management.
Our management (with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”)) has conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act).
Based on such evaluation, our CEO and our CFO have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level as of the end of the period covered by this report.
There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the three months ended December 29, 2017, that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
Our management, including our CEO and CFO, does not expect that our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal controls will prevent all errors and all fraud.
A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met.
Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs.
Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within our company have been detected.
Accordingly, our disclosure controls and procedures provide reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives.
Legal Proceedings

Information with respect to this Item may be found under the heading “Litigation contingencies” in Note 12 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-Q, which information is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors

A description of the risks associated with our business, financial condition, and results of operations is set forth in Part I, Item 1A, of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017.
There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in our Annual Report, except for the following risk factor.
The risk factor below should be read in conjunction with the risk factors and other information disclosed in our Form 10-K.

Changes to our effective tax rate could increase our income tax expense and reduce (increase) our net income (loss).
•Changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws, including impacts of the recently enacted Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, the consequences of which have not yet been fully determined;

•Changes to other tax laws, regulations, and interpretations in multiple jurisdictions in which we operate, including actions resulting from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development’s base erosion and profit shifting project, proposed actions by international bodies, as well as the requirements of certain tax rulings;

•Changes in the relative proportions of revenues and income before taxes in the various jurisdictions in which we operate that have differing statutory tax rates;

•The tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions and restructuring charges that may cause fluctuations between reporting periods; and

•Tax assessments, or any related tax interest or penalties that could significantly affect our income tax expense for the period in which the settlements take place.
We report our results of operations based on our determination of the aggregate amount of taxes owed in the tax jurisdictions in which we operate.
From time to time, we receive notices that a tax authority in a particular jurisdiction believes that we owe a greater amount of tax than we have reported to such authority.
We are regularly engaged in discussions and sometimes disputes with these tax authorities.
We are engaged in disputes of this nature at this time.
If the ultimate determination of our taxes owed in any of these jurisdictions is for an amount in excess of the tax provision we have recorded or reserved for, our operating results, cash flows, and financial condition could be adversely affected.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds




Item 6.
Exhibits



†This exhibit is being furnished rather than filed, and shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing, in accordance with Item 601 of Regulation S-K.

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
