Item 4.
Controls and Procedures 


The SEC defines the term “disclosure controls and procedures” to mean a company’s controls and other procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported, within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms.
“Disclosure controls and procedures” include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by an issuer in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the issuer’s management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management.
Our management (with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer) has conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act).
Based on such evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level as of the end of the period covered by this report.
There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the third quarter of fiscal 2019, that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal controls will prevent all errors and all fraud.
A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met.
Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs.
Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within our company have been detected.
Legal Proceedings

Information with respect to this Item may be found under the heading “Litigation contingencies” in Note 16 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-Q, which information is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors

A description of the risk factors associated with our business is set forth below.
The list is not exhaustive and you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our common stock.
A decrease in demand for our solutions could adversely affect our financial results.
We are subject to fluctuations in demand for our solutions due to a variety of factors, including market transitions, general economic conditions, competition, product obsolescence, technological change, shifts in buying patterns, the timing and duration of hardware refresh cycles, financial difficulties and budget constraints of our current and potential customers, public awareness of security threats to IT systems and other factors.
While such factors may, in some periods, increase product sales, fluctuations in demand can also negatively impact our sales.
If demand for our solutions declines, whether due to general economic conditions, a shift in buying patterns or otherwise, our revenues and margins would likely be adversely affected.
Fluctuations in our quarterly financial results have affected the trading price of our outstanding securities in the past and could affect the trading price of outstanding securities in the future.
Our quarterly financial results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to vary in the future due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control.
If our quarterly financial results or our predictions of future financial results fail to meet our expectations or the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the trading price of our outstanding securities could be negatively affected.
Volatility in our quarterly financial results may make it more difficult for us to raise capital in the future or pursue acquisitions.
Our operating results for prior periods may not be effective predictors of our future performance.
•Fluctuations in our revenue due to the transition of our sales contracts to a higher mix of products subject to ratable versus point-in-time revenue recognition;

•The timing of satisfying revenue recognition criteria, particularly with regard to our enterprise sales transactions, as a result of our adoption of new revenue recognition from contracts with customers accounting standard under ASC 606 on March 31, 2018;

•Fluctuations in demand for our solutions;

•Entry of new competition into our markets;

•Competitive pricing pressure for one or more of our classes of our solutions;

•Our ability to timely complete the release of new or enhanced versions of our solutions;

•The timing and extent of significant restructuring charges;

•The impact of acquisitions and our ability to achieve expected synergies;

•Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;

•The number, severity, and timing of threat outbreaks (e.g.
worms, viruses, malware, ransomware and other malicious threats) and cyber security incidents (e.g., large scale data breaches);

•Our resellers making a substantial portion of their purchases near the end of each quarter;

•Customers’ tendency to negotiate licenses and other agreements near the end of each quarter;

•Cancellation, deferral, or limitation of orders by customers;

•Changes in the mix or type of products and subscriptions sold;

•Our ability to achieve targeted operating income and margins;

•Movements in interest rates;

•The rate of adoption of new technologies and new releases of operating systems;

•Changes in tax laws, rules, and regulations;

•Weakness or uncertainty in general economic or industry conditions in any of the multiple markets in which we operate that could reduce customer demand and ability to pay for our solutions;

•Political and military instability caused by war or other events, which could slow spending within our target markets, delay sales cycles, and otherwise adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and operate effectively;

•The timing of and rate and discounts at which customers replace older versions of our hardware products that reach end of life; and

•Disruptions in our business operations or target markets caused by, among other things, terrorism or other intentional acts, outbreaks of disease, or earthquakes, floods, or other natural disasters.
Any of the foregoing factors could cause the trading price of our outstanding securities to fluctuate significantly.
Our business depends on customers renewing their arrangements for maintenance, subscriptions, managed security services and cloud-based (“cloud”) offerings.
A large portion of our revenue is derived from arrangements for maintenance, subscriptions, managed security services and cloud offerings, yet customers have no contractual obligation to purchase additional solutions after the initial subscription or contract period.
Our customers’ renewal rates, and our customer retention, may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our solutions or our customer support, customer budgets and the pricing of our solutions compared with the solutions offered by our competitors, any of which may cause our revenue to grow more slowly than expected, or to decline.
Accordingly, we must invest significant time and resources in providing ongoing value to our customers.
If these efforts fail, or if our customers do not renew for other reasons, or if they renew on terms less favorable to us, our revenue may decline and our business will suffer.
Matters relating to or arising from our Audit Committee Investigation, including regulatory investigations and proceedings, litigation matters and potential additional expenses, may adversely affect our business and results of operations.
As previously disclosed in our public filings, the Audit Committee completed its internal investigation in September 2018.
In connection with the Audit Committee Investigation, we voluntarily contacted the SEC in May 2018.
The SEC commenced a formal investigation and we continue to cooperate with that investigation.
Furthermore, if the SEC commences legal action, we could be required to pay significant penalties and become subject to injunctions, a cease and desist order and other equitable remedies.
The completion of the Audit Committee Investigation and filing of delinquent periodic reports does not automatically resolve the SEC investigation.
We can provide no assurances as to the outcome of any governmental investigation.
We have incurred, and may continue to incur, significant expenses related to legal, accounting, and other professional services in connection with the internal investigation and related legal matters.
These expenses, the delay in timely filing our periodic reports, and the diversion of the attention of the management team that has occurred, and is expected to continue, has adversely affected, and could continue to adversely affect, our business and financial condition.
As a result of the matters reported above, we are exposed to greater risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement actions.
In addition, securities class actions and other lawsuits have been filed against us, our directors and officers (see also, “We are subject to pending securities class action and stockholder derivative legal proceedings” below).
Any future investigations or additional lawsuits may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
We are subject to pending securities class action and stockholder derivative legal proceedings that may adversely affect our business.
Several securities class action and derivative lawsuits were filed against us following our announcement on May 10, 2018 of the Audit Committee Investigation, including an action brought derivatively on behalf of Symantec’s 2008 Employee Stock Purchase Plan.
In addition, we have received certain demands from purported stockholders to inspect corporate books and records under Delaware law.
No specific amounts of damages have been alleged in these lawsuits.
We will continue to incur legal fees in connection with these pending cases, including expenses for the reimbursement of legal fees of present and former officers and directors under indemnification obligations.
The expense of continuing to defend such litigation may be significant.
We intend to defend these lawsuits vigorously, but there can be no assurance that we will be successful in any defense.
If any of the lawsuits related to our Audit Committee Investigation are decided adversely, we may be liable for significant damages directly or under our indemnification obligations, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows.
Further, the amount of time that will be required to resolve these lawsuits is unpredictable and these actions may divert management’s attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could further adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows.
The delayed filing of some of our periodic SEC reports has made us currently ineligible to use a registration statement on Form S-3 to register the offer and sale of securities, which could adversely affect our ability to raise future capital or complete acquisitions.
As a result of the delayed filing of some of our periodic reports with the SEC, we will not be eligible to register the offer and sale of our securities using a registration statement on Form S-3 until November 2019, at the earliest.
Should we wish to register the offer and sale of our securities to the public prior to the time we are eligible to use Form S-3, both our transaction costs and the amount of time required to complete the transaction could increase, making it more difficult to execute any such transaction successfully and potentially harming our financial condition.
If we are unable to develop new and enhanced solutions that achieve widespread market acceptance, or if we are unable to continually improve the performance, features, and reliability of our existing solutions or adapt our business model to keep pace with industry trends, our competitive position may weaken and our business and operating results could be adversely affected.
Our future success depends on our ability to effectively respond to the rapidly changing needs of our customers, as well as competitive technological developments and industry changes by developing or introducing new and enhanced solutions on a timely basis.
•Lengthy development cycles;

•Evolving industry standards and technological developments by our competitors and customers;

•Evolving platforms, operating systems and hardware products, such as mobile devices, and related product and service interoperability challenges;

•Entering into new or unproven markets;

•Executing new product and service strategies;

•Trade compliance difficulties;

•Developing or expanding efficient sales channels; and

•Obtaining sufficient licenses to technology and technical access to operating system software.
If we are not successful in managing these risks and challenges, or if our new or improved solutions are not technologically competitive or do not achieve market acceptance, our business and operating results could be adversely affected.
If we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, lose key personnel, fail to integrate replacement personnel successfully, or fail to manage our employee base effectively, we may be unable to develop new and enhanced solutions, effectively manage or expand our business, or increase our revenues.
Our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain key management, technical, sales, marketing, finance and other personnel.
Our officers and other key personnel are employees-at-will, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain them.
Competition for people with the specific skills that we require is significant, especially in and around our headquarters in Silicon Valley, and we face difficulties in attracting, retaining and motivating employees as a result.
In order to attract and retain personnel in a competitive marketplace, we believe that we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash and equity-based compensation.
Additionally, changes in immigration laws could impair our ability to attract and retain highly qualified employees.
If we fail to attract new personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects could suffer.
The volatility in our stock price may from time to time adversely affect our ability to recruit or retain employees.
In addition, we may be unable to obtain required stockholder approvals of future increases in the number of shares required for issuance under our equity compensation plans.
As a result, we may issue fewer equity-based incentives and may be impaired in our efforts to attract and retain necessary personnel.
If we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees, or conversely, if we fail to manage employee performance or reduce staffing levels when required by market conditions, our business and operating results could be adversely affected.
Effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success.
Failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution.
From time to time, key personnel leave our company.
Although we strive to reduce the negative impact of changes in our leadership, the loss of any key employee could result in significant disruptions to our operations, including adversely affecting the timeliness of product releases, the successful implementation and completion of company initiatives, the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures, our internal control over financial reporting, and our results of operations.
In addition, hiring, training, and successfully integrating replacement sales and other personnel could be time consuming and expensive, may cause additional disruptions to our operations, and may be unsuccessful, which could negatively impact future financial results.
These risks may be exacerbated by the uncertainty associated with the acquisitions, divestitures and transitions we have experienced over the last few years.
We operate in a highly competitive environment, and our competitors may gain market share in the markets for our solutions that could adversely affect our business and cause our revenues to decline.
We operate in intensely competitive markets that experience rapid technological developments, changes in industry standards, changes in customer requirements and frequent new product introductions and improvements.
If we are unable to anticipate or react to these competitive challenges or if existing or new competitors gain market share in any of our markets, our competitive position could weaken and we could experience a decline in our sales that could adversely affect our business and operating results.
To compete successfully, we must maintain an innovative research and development effort to develop new solutions and enhance our existing solutions, effectively adapt to changes in the technology or product rights held by our competitors, appropriately respond to competitive strategies and effectively adapt to technological changes and changes in the ways that our information is accessed, used and stored within our enterprise and consumer markets.
If we are unsuccessful in responding to our competitors or to changing technological and customer demands, our competitive position and our financial results could be adversely affected.
Our competitors include software and cloud-based vendors that offer solutions that directly compete with our offerings.
In addition to competing with these vendors directly for sales to end-users of our solutions, we compete with them for the opportunity to have our solutions bundled with the offerings of our strategic partners such as computer hardware original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) and internet service providers (“ISPs”).
Our competitors could gain market share from us if any of these strategic partners replace our solutions with those of our competitors or if these partners more actively promote our competitors’ solutions than our own.
In addition, software and cloud-based vendors who have bundled our solutions with theirs may choose to bundle their solutions with their own or other vendors’ solutions or may limit our access to standard interfaces and inhibit our ability to develop solutions for their platform.
In the future, further product development by these vendors could cause our solutions to become redundant, which could significantly impact our sales and financial results.
We face growing competition from network equipment, computer hardware manufacturers, large operating system providers and other technology companies, as well as from companies in the identity threat protection space such as credit bureaus.
Many of these competitors are increasingly developing and incorporating into their products data protection software that competes at some levels with our offerings.
Our competitive position could be adversely affected to the extent that our customers perceive the functionality incorporated into these products as replacing the need for our solutions.
Security protection is also offered by some of our competitors at prices lower than our prices or, in some cases is offered free of charge.
Some companies offer lower-priced or free security products within their computer hardware or software products.
Our competitive position could be adversely affected to the extent that our customers perceive these lower cost or free security products as replacing the need for more effective, full featured solutions, such as those that we provide.
The expansion of these competitive trends could have a significant negative impact on our sales and operating results by causing, among other things, price reductions of our solutions, reduced profitability and loss of market share.
Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, sales, marketing or other resources than we do and consequently, may have the ability to influence customers to purchase their products instead of ours.
Further consolidation within our industry or other changes in the competitive environment could result in larger competitors that compete with us on several levels.
We also face competition from many smaller companies that specialize in particular segments of the markets in which we compete.
Our cloud offerings present execution and competitive risks.
•Continuing to innovate and bring to market compelling cloud-based solutions that generate increasing traffic and market share; and

•Ensuring that our cloud offerings meet the reliability expectations of our customers and maintain the security of their data.
Over the long term we intend to invest in research and development activities, and these investments may achieve delayed, or lower than expected, benefits which could harm our operating results.
While we continue to focus on managing our costs and expenses, over the long term, we also intend to invest significantly in research and development activities as we focus on organic growth through internal innovation in each of our business segments.
We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position, and that the level of these investments will increase in future periods.
We recognize the costs associated with these research and development investments earlier than the anticipated benefits, and the return on these investments may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than we expect.
If we do not achieve the benefits anticipated from these investments, or if the achievement of these benefits is delayed, our operating results may be adversely affected.
Changes in industry structure and market conditions could lead to charges related to discontinuance of certain of our products or businesses and asset impairments.
In response to changes in industry structure and market conditions, we may be required to strategically reallocate our resources and consider restructuring, disposing of or otherwise exiting certain businesses.
Any decision to limit investment in or dispose of or otherwise exit businesses may result in the recording of special charges, such as inventory and technology-related write-offs, workforce reduction costs, charges relating to consolidation of excess facilities or claims from third parties who were resellers or users of discontinued products.
Our estimates with respect to the useful life or ultimate recoverability of our carrying basis of assets, including purchased intangible assets, could change as a result of such assessments and decisions.
Although in certain instances our supply agreements allow us the option to cancel, reschedule and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed, our loss contingencies may include liabilities for contracts that we cannot cancel, reschedule or adjust with contract manufacturers and suppliers.
Further, our estimates relating to the liabilities for excess facilities are affected by changes in real estate market conditions.
Additionally, we are required to evaluate goodwill impairment on an annual basis and between annual evaluations in certain circumstances, and future goodwill impairment evaluations may result in a charge to earnings.
We may need to change our pricing models to compete successfully.
The intense competition we face, in addition to general and economic business conditions, can put pressure on us to change our prices.
If our competitors offer deep discounts on certain solutions or develop products or support offerings that the marketplace considers more valuable, we may need to lower prices or offer other favorable terms in order to compete successfully.
Any such changes may reduce margins and could adversely affect our operating results.
Any broad-based change to our prices and pricing policies could cause our revenues to decline or be delayed as our sales force implements and our customers adjust to the new pricing policies.
We or our competitors may bundle solutions for promotional purposes or as a long-term go-to-market or pricing strategy or provide guarantees of prices.
These practices could, over time, significantly constrain the prices that we can charge for certain of our offerings.
Defects, disruptions or risks related to our cloud offerings could impair our ability to deliver our services and could expose us to liability, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise negatively impact our business.
Our cloud offerings may contain errors or defects that users identify after they begin using them that could result in unanticipated service interruptions, which could harm our reputation and our business.
Since our customers use our cloud offerings for mission-critical protection from threats to electronic information, endpoint devices, and computer networks, any errors, defects, disruptions in service or other performance problems with our cloud offerings could significantly harm our reputation and may damage our customers’ businesses.
If any such performance problems occur, customers could elect not to renew, or delay or withhold payment to us, we could lose future sales or customers may make warranty or other claims against us, which could result in an increase in our provision for doubtful accounts or warranty, an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable or the expense and risk of litigation.
We currently serve our cloud-based customers from hosting facilities, including third-party hosting facilities, located across the globe.
Damage to, or failure of, any significant element of these hosting facilities could result in interruptions in our service, which could harm our customers and expose us to liability.
The occurrence of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in the delivery of our solutions.
Interruptions or failures in our service delivery could cause customers to terminate their subscriptions with us, could adversely affect our renewal rates, and could harm our ability to attract new customers.
Our business would also be harmed if our customers believe that our cloud offerings are unreliable.
Our solutions are complex and operate in a wide variety of environments, systems, applications and configurations, which could result in failures of our solutions to function as designed.
Because we offer very complex solutions, undetected errors, failures or bugs may occur, especially when solutions are first introduced or when new versions are released.
Our products are often installed and used in large-scale computing environments with different operating systems, system management software, and equipment and networking configurations, which may cause errors or failures in our solutions or may expose undetected errors, failures, or bugs in our solutions.
Our customers’ computing environments are often characterized by a wide variety of standard and non-standard configurations that make pre-release testing for programming or compatibility errors very difficult and time-consuming.
In addition, despite testing by us and others, errors, failures, or bugs may not be found in new solutions or releases until after they are delivered to customers.
In the past, we have discovered software errors, failures, and bugs in certain of our solutions after their introduction and, in some cases, have experienced delayed or lost revenues as a result of these errors.
Errors, failures, or bugs in solutions released by us could result in negative publicity, damage to our brand and reputation, returns, loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products, loss of competitive position, or claims by customers or others.
Many of our end-user customers use our solutions in applications that are critical to their businesses and may have a greater sensitivity to defects in our solutions than to defects in other, less critical, software products.
In addition, if an actual or perceived breach of information integrity, security or availability occurs in one of our end-user customer’s systems, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our products, the market perception of the effectiveness of our solutions could be harmed.
Alleviating any of these problems could require significant expenditures, our capital and other resources and could cause interruptions, delays, or cessation of our licensing, which could cause us to lose existing or potential customers and could adversely affect our operating results.
Our products, solutions, cloud offerings, systems and website may be subject to intentional disruption that could adversely impact our reputation and future sales.
Despite our precautions and significant ongoing investments to protect against security risks, data protection breaches, cyber-attacks and other intentional disruptions of our solutions, we expect to be an ongoing target of attacks specifically designed to impede the performance and availability of our offerings and harm our reputation as a company.
Similarly, experienced computer programmers or other sophisticated individuals or entities may attempt to penetrate our network security or the security of our systems and website and misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions of our services, including the operation of our global civilian cyber intelligence threat network.
While we invest and devote significant resources to maintain and continually enhance and update our methods to detect and alert us to such breaches, attacks and disruptions, these efforts may not be sufficient, even with rapid detection, to prevent the damage such a breach of our products, solutions, cloud offerings, systems, and website may cause.
Our inability to successfully recover from a disaster or other business continuity event could impair our ability to deliver our products and services and harm our business.
We are heavily reliant on our technology and infrastructure to provide our products and services to our customers.
For example, we host many of our products using third-party data center facilities and we do not control the operation of these facilities.
These facilities are vulnerable to damage, interruption or performance problems from earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events.
They are also subject to break-ins, computer viruses, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and other misconduct.
The occurrence of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in the delivery of our products and services.
Furthermore, our business administration, human resources and finance services depend on the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations.
A disruption or failure of these systems or operations because of a disaster or other business continuity event could cause data to be lost or otherwise delay our ability to complete sales and provide the highest level of service to our customers.
In addition, we could have difficulty producing accurate financial statements on a timely basis, which could adversely affect the trading value of our stock.
Although we endeavor to ensure there is redundancy in these systems and that they are regularly backed-up, there are no assurances that data recovery in the event of a disaster would be effective or occur in an efficient manner, including the operation of our global civilian cyber intelligence threat network.
Any errors, defects, disruptions or other performance problems with our products and services could harm our reputation and may damage our customers’ businesses.
For example, we may experience disruptions, outages and other performance problems due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human or software errors, capacity constraints due to an overwhelming number of users accessing our website simultaneously, fraud or security attacks.
In some instances, we may not be able to identify the cause or causes of these performance problems within an acceptable period of time.
Interruptions in our products and services, including the operation of our global civilian cyber intelligence threat network, could impact our revenues or cause customers to cease doing business with us.
In addition, our business would be harmed if any of events of this nature caused our customers and potential customers to believe our services are unreliable.
Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our technology infrastructure against damage from business continuity events that could have a significant disruptive effect on our operations.
We could potentially lose customer data or experience material adverse interruptions to our operations or delivery of services to our clients in a disaster recovery scenario.
We collect, use, disclose, store or otherwise process personal information, which subjects us to privacy and data security laws and contractual commitments, and our actual or perceived failure to comply with such laws and commitments could harm our business.
We collect, use, store or disclose (collectively, “process”) an increasingly large amount of personal information, including from employees and customers, in connection with the operation of our business, particularly in relation to our identity and information protection offerings.
We process an increasingly high volume, variety and velocity of personal information as a result of our identity and information protection offerings that rely on large data repositories of personal information and consumer transactions.
The personal information we process is subject to an increasing number of federal, state, local and foreign laws regarding privacy and data security, as well as contractual commitments.
Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with such obligations may result in governmental enforcement actions, fines, litigation, or public statements against us by consumer advocacy groups or others and could cause our customers to lose trust in us, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business.
Additionally, changes to applicable privacy or data security laws could impact how we process personal information, and therefore limit the effectiveness of our solutions or our ability to develop new solutions.
For example, the European Union General Data Protection Regulation, which became fully effective on May 25, 2018, imposes more stringent data protection requirements, and provides for greater penalties for noncompliance of up to the greater of €20 million or four percent of worldwide annual revenues.
Our customers may also accidentally disclose their passwords or store them on a device that is lost or stolen, creating the perception that our systems are not secure against third-party access.
Additionally, third parties with whom we work, such as vendors or developers, may violate applicable laws or our policies and such violations can place personal information of our customers at risk.
This could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business.
In addition, such third parties could be the target of cyberattack and other data breaches which could impact our systems or our customers’ records.
Our acquisitions and divestitures create special risks and challenges that could adversely affect our financial results.
•Complexity, time and costs associated with managing these transactions, including the integration of acquired business operations, workforce, products, IT systems and technologies;

•Diversion of management time and attention;

•Loss or termination of employees, including costs associated with the termination or replacement of those employees;

•Assumption of liabilities of the acquired business or assets, including litigation related to the acquired business or assets;

•The addition of acquisition-related debt;

•Increased or unexpected costs and working capital requirements;

•Dilution of stock ownership of existing stockholders;

•Unanticipated delays or failure to meet contractual obligations; and

•Substantial accounting charges for acquisition-related costs, amortization of intangible assets, and higher levels of stock-based compensation expense.
We have invested and continue to invest and devote significant resources in the integration of businesses we acquire, including our August 2016 acquisition of Blue Coat, Inc. (“Blue Coat”) and February 2017 acquisition of LifeLock, Inc. (“Life Lock”).
The success of each acquisition depends in part on our ability to realize the anticipated business opportunities, including certain cost savings and operational efficiencies or synergies and growth prospects from integrating these businesses in an efficient and effective manner.
If integration of our acquired businesses is not successful, we may not realize the potential benefits of an acquisition or suffer other adverse effects.
To integrate acquired businesses, we must integrate and manage the personnel and business systems of the acquired operations.
We also must effectively integrate the different cultures of acquired business organizations into our own in a way that aligns various interests, and may need to enter new markets in which we have no or limited experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions.
Moreover, to be successful, large complex acquisitions depend on large-scale product, technology and sales force integrations that are difficult to complete on a timely basis or at all, and may be more susceptible to the special risks and challenges described above.
In addition, we have in the past, and may in the future, divest businesses, product lines or assets.
For example, in January 2016 we completed the sale of Veritas, and in October 2017 we divested our WSS and PKI solutions.
These and similar initiatives may require significant separation activities that could result in the diversion of management’s time and attention, loss of employees, substantial separation costs and accounting charges for asset impairments.
Any of the foregoing, and other factors, could harm our ability to achieve anticipated levels of profitability or other financial benefits from our acquired or divested businesses, product lines or assets or to realize other anticipated benefits of divestitures or acquisitions.
If we fail to manage our sales and distribution channels effectively, or if our partners choose not to market and sell our solutions to their customers, our operating results could be adversely affected.
We sell our solutions to customers around the world through multi-tiered sales and distribution networks.
•Longer sales cycles associated with direct sales efforts;

•Difficulty in hiring, retaining, and motivating our direct sales force, particularly through periods of transition in our organization;

•Substantial amounts of training for sales representatives to become productive in selling our solutions, including regular updates to our products, and associated delays and difficulties in recognizing the expected benefits of investments in new products and updates;

•Increased administrative costs in processing orders and increased credit risk in pursuing payment from each end user; and

•Increased responsibility for custom and export activities that may result in added costs.
•Our resellers and distributors are generally not subject to minimum sales requirements or any obligation to market our solutions to their customers;

•Our reseller and distributor agreements are generally nonexclusive and may be terminated at any time without cause;

•Our lack of control over the timing of delivery of our solutions to end-users;

•Our resellers and distributors may violate applicable law or regulatory requirements or otherwise cause damage to our reputation through their actions;

•Our resellers and distributors frequently market and distribute competing solutions and may, from time to time, place greater emphasis on the sale of these solutions due to pricing, promotions, and other terms offered by our competitors; and

•Any consolidation of electronics retailers can continue to increase their negotiating power with respect to hardware and software providers such as us.
•Our lack of control over the volume of products delivered and the timing of such delivery;

•Most of our OEM partners are not subject to minimum sales requirements.
Generally, our OEM partners do not have any obligation to market our products to their customers;

•Our OEM partners may terminate or renegotiate their arrangements with us and new terms may be less favorable due to competitive conditions in our markets and other factors;

•Sales through our OEM partners are subject to changes in general economic conditions, strategic direction, competitive risks, and other issues that could result in a reduction of OEM sales;

•The development work that we must generally undertake under our agreements with our OEM partners may require us to invest significant resources and incur significant costs with little or no assurance of ever receiving associated revenues;

•The time and expense required for the sales and marketing organizations of our OEM partners to become familiar with our solutions may make it more difficult to introduce those solutions to the market; and

•Our OEM partners may develop, market, and distribute their own solutions and market and distribute products of our competitors, which could reduce our sales.
If we fail to manage our sales and distribution channels successfully, these channels may conflict with one another or otherwise fail to perform as we anticipate, which could reduce our sales and increase our expenses as well as weaken our competitive position.
Some of our distribution partners have experienced financial difficulties in the past, and if our partners suffer financial difficulties in the future because of general economic conditions or for other reasons, these partners may delay paying their obligations to us and we may have reduced revenues or collections that could adversely affect our operating results.
In addition, reliance on multiple channels subjects us to events that could cause unpredictability in demand, which could increase the risk that we may be unable to plan effectively for the future, and could adversely affect our operating results.
We face heightened regulation in our Consumer Digital Safety segment, which could impede our ability to market and provide our solutions or adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations.
We are subject to heightened regulation in our Consumer Digital Safety segment as a result of the sale of our identity and information protection products, which we began selling at the end of fiscal 2017 as a result of our acquisition of LifeLock, including a wide variety of federal, state, and local laws and regulations, including the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the Federal Trade Commission Act (“FTC Act”), and comparable state laws that are patterned after the FTC Act.
Moreover, LifeLock entered into consent decrees and similar arrangements with the Federal Trade Commission (the “FTC”) and 35 states’ attorneys general in 2010, and a settlement with the FTC in 2015 relating to allegations that certain of LifeLock’s advertising and marketing practices constituted deceptive acts or practices in violation of the FTC Act, which impose additional restrictions on the LifeLock business, including prohibitions against making any misrepresentation of “the means, methods, procedures, effects, effectiveness, coverage, or scope of” LifeLock’s identity theft protection services.
Any of the laws and regulations that apply to our business are subject to revision or new or changed interpretations, and we cannot predict the impact of such changes on our business.
Additionally, the nature of our identity and information protection products subjects us to the broad regulatory, supervisory, and enforcement powers of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) which may exercise authority with respect to our services, or the marketing and servicing of those services, by overseeing our financial institution or credit reporting agency customers and suppliers, or by otherwise exercising its supervisory, regulatory, or enforcement authority over consumer financial products and services.
Our international operations involve risks that could increase our expenses, adversely affect our operating results, and require increased time and attention of our management.
•Potential loss of proprietary information due to misappropriation or laws that may be less protective of our intellectual property rights than U.S. laws or that may not be adequately enforced;

•Requirements of foreign laws and other governmental controls, including tariffs, trade barriers and labor restrictions and related laws that reduce the flexibility of our business operations;

•Potential changes in trade relations arising from policy initiatives or other political factors;

•Regulations or restrictions on the use, import, or export of encryption technologies that could delay or prevent the acceptance and use of encryption products and public networks for secure communications;

•Local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices, including business practices that we are prohibited from engaging in by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-corruption laws and regulations;

•Central bank and other restrictions on our ability to repatriate cash from our international subsidiaries or to exchange cash in international subsidiaries into cash available for use in the U.S.;

•Fluctuations in currency exchange rates, economic instability and inflationary conditions could reduce our customers’ ability to obtain financing for software products or could make our products more expensive or could increase our costs of doing business in certain countries;

•Limitations on future growth or inability to maintain current levels of revenues from international sales if we do not invest sufficiently in our international operations;

•Longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable;

•Difficulties in staffing, managing, and operating our international operations;

•Difficulties in coordinating the activities of our geographically dispersed and culturally diverse operations;

•Seasonal reductions in business activity in the summer months in Europe and in other periods in other countries;

•Costs and delays associated with developing software and providing support in multiple languages; and

•Political unrest, war, or terrorism, or regional natural disasters, particularly in areas in which we have facilities.
A significant portion of our transactions outside of the U.S. is denominated in foreign currencies.
Accordingly, our revenues and expenses will continue to be subject to fluctuations in foreign currency rates.
We have in the past and expect in the future to be affected by fluctuations in foreign currency rates, especially if international sales continue to grow as a percentage of our total sales or our operations outside the U.S. continue to increase.
If we fail to accurately predict our manufacturing requirements and manage our supply chain we could incur additional costs or experience manufacturing delays that could harm our business.
We generally provide forecasts of our requirements to our supply chain partners on a rolling basis.
If our forecast exceeds our actual requirements, a supply chain partner may assess additional charges or we may have liability for excess inventory, each of which could negatively affect our gross margin.
If our forecast is less than our actual requirements, the applicable supply chain partner may have insufficient time or components to produce or fulfill our product requirements, which could delay or interrupt manufacturing of our products or fulfillment of orders for our products, and result in delays in shipments, customer dissatisfaction, and deferral or loss of revenue.
Further, we may be required to purchase sufficient inventory to satisfy our future needs in situations where a component or product is being discontinued.
If we fail to accurately predict our requirements, we may be unable to fulfill those orders or we may be required to record charges for excess inventory.
Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.
We are dependent on original design manufacturers, contract manufacturers and third-party logistics providers to design and manufacture our hardware-based products and to fulfill orders for our hardware-based products.
We depend primarily on original design manufacturers (each of which is a third-party original design manufacturer for numerous companies) to co-design and co-develop the hardware platforms for our products.
We also depend on independent contract manufacturers (each of which is a third-party contract manufacturer for numerous companies) to manufacture and fulfill our hardware-based products.
These supply chain partners are not committed to design or manufacture our products, or to fulfill orders for our products, on a long-term basis in any specific quantity or at any specific price.
In addition, certain of our products or key components of our products are currently manufactured by a single third-party supplier.
There are alternative suppliers that could provide components, as our agreements do not provide for exclusivity or minimum purchase quantities, but the transition and qualification from one supplier to another could be lengthy, costly and difficult.
Also, from time to time, we may be required to add new supply chain partner relationships or new manufacturing or fulfillment sites to accommodate growth in orders or the addition of new products.
It is time consuming and costly to qualify and implement new supply chain partner relationships and new manufacturing or fulfillment sites, and such additions increase the complexity of our supply chain management.
Our ability to ship products to our customers could be delayed, and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected if we fail to effectively manage our supply chain partner relationships; if one or more of our original design manufacturers does not meet our development schedules; if one or more of our independent contract manufacturers experiences delays, disruptions or quality control problems in manufacturing our products; if one or more of our third-party logistics providers experiences delays or disruptions or otherwise fails to meet our fulfillment schedules; or if we are required to add or replace original design manufacturers, independent contract manufacturers, third-party logistics providers or fulfillment sites.
In addition, these supply chain partners have access to certain of our critical confidential information and could wrongly disclose or misuse such information or be subject to a breach or other compromise that introduces a vulnerability or other defect in the products manufactured by our supply chain partners.
While we take precautions to ensure that hardware manufactured by our independent contractors is reviewed, any espionage acts, malware attacks, theft of confidential information or other malicious cyber incidents perpetrated either directly or indirectly through our independent contractors, may compromise our system infrastructure, expose us to litigation and associated expenses and lead to reputational harm that could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results.
In addition, we are subject to risks resulting from the perception that certain jurisdictions, including China, do not comply with internationally recognized rights of freedom of expression and privacy and may permit labor practices that are deemed unacceptable under evolving standards of social responsibility.
If manufacturing or logistics in these foreign countries is disrupted for any reason, including natural disasters, IT system failures, military or government actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, or political issues, or if the purchase or sale of products from such foreign countries is prohibited or disfavored, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.
If we do not protect our proprietary information and prevent third parties from making unauthorized use of our products and technology, our financial results could be harmed.
Most of our software and underlying technology is proprietary.
We seek to protect our proprietary rights through a combination of confidentiality agreements and procedures and through copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws.
However, these measures afford only limited protection and may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties.
Third parties may copy all or portions of our products or otherwise obtain, use, distribute, and sell our proprietary information without authorization.
Third parties may also develop similar or superior technology independently by designing around our patents.
Our shrink-wrap license agreements are not signed by licensees and therefore may be unenforceable under the laws of some jurisdictions.
Furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries do not offer the same level of protection of our proprietary rights as the laws of the U.S., and we may be subject to unauthorized use of our products in those countries.
The unauthorized copying or use of our products or proprietary information could result in reduced sales of our products.
Any legal action to protect proprietary information that we may bring or be engaged in with a strategic partner or vendor could adversely affect our ability to access software, operating system, and hardware platforms of such partner or vendor, or cause such partner or vendor to choose not to offer our products to their customers.
In addition, any legal action to protect proprietary information that we may bring or be engaged in, could be costly, may distract management from day-to-day operations, and may lead to additional claims against us, which could adversely affect our operating results.
From time to time we are a party to lawsuits and investigations, which typically require significant management time and attention and result in significant legal expenses, and which could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.
We have initiated and been named as a party to lawsuits, including patent litigation, class actions and governmental claims and we may be named in additional litigation.
The expense of initiating and defending, and in some cases settling, such litigation may be costly and divert management’s attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and cash flows.
In addition, an unfavorable outcome in such litigation could result in significant fines, settlements, monetary damages or injunctive relief that could negatively impact our ability to conduct our business, results of operations, and cash flows.
Third parties claiming that we infringe their proprietary rights could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and prevent us from selling our products.
From time to time, third parties may claim that we have infringed their intellectual property rights, including claims regarding patents, copyrights, and trademarks.
Because of constant technological change in the segments in which we compete, the extensive patent coverage of existing technologies, and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is possible that the number of these claims may grow.
In addition, former employers of our former, current, or future employees may assert claims that such employees have improperly disclosed to us confidential or proprietary information of these former employers.
Any such claim, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation and distract management from day-to-day operations.
If we are not successful in defending such claims, we could be required to stop selling, delay shipments of, or redesign our products, pay monetary amounts as damages, enter into royalty or licensing arrangements, or satisfy indemnification obligations that we have with some of our customers.
We cannot assure you that any royalty or licensing arrangements that we may seek in such circumstances will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all.
We have made and expect to continue making significant expenditures to investigate, defend and settle claims related to the use of technology and intellectual property rights as part of our strategy to manage this risk.
In addition, we license and use software from third parties in our business.
These third-party software licenses may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms or at all, and may expose us to additional liability.
This liability, or our inability to use any of this third-party software, could result in delivery delays or other disruptions in our business that could materially and adversely affect our operating results.
Changes to our effective tax rate could increase our income tax expense and reduce (increase) our net income (loss).
•Changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws, including impacts of the recently enacted Act relating to future interpretations of the Act, the consequences of which have not yet been fully determined;

•Changes to other tax laws, regulations, and interpretations in multiple jurisdictions in which we operate, including actions resulting from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development’s base erosion and profit shifting project, proposed actions by international bodies such as digital services taxation, as well as the requirements of certain tax rulings;

•Changes in the relative proportions of revenues and income before taxes in the various jurisdictions in which we operate that have differing statutory tax rates;

•The tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions and restructuring charges that may cause fluctuations between reporting periods; and

•Tax assessments, or any related tax interest or penalties that could significantly affect our income tax expense for the period in which the settlements take place.
We report our results of operations based on our determination of the aggregate amount of taxes owed in the tax jurisdictions in which we operate.
From time to time, we receive notices that a tax authority in a particular jurisdiction believes that we owe a greater amount of tax than we have reported to such authority.
We are regularly engaged in discussions and sometimes disputes with these tax authorities.
If the ultimate determination of our taxes owed in any of these jurisdictions is for an amount in excess of the tax provision we have recorded or reserved for, our operating results, cash flows, and financial condition could be adversely affected.
We cannot predict our future capital needs and we may be unable to obtain financing, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.
Adverse economic conditions or a change in our business performance may make it more difficult to obtain financing for our operations, investing activities (including potential acquisitions or divestitures) or financing activities.
Any required financing may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all.
If we raise additional funds by obtaining loans from third parties, the terms of those financing arrangements may include negative covenants or other restrictions on our business that could impair our financial or operational flexibility, and would also require us to fund additional interest expense.
If additional financing is not available when required or is not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to successfully develop or enhance our software and services through acquisitions in order to take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, which could have a material adverse effect on our software and services offerings, revenues, results of operations and financial condition.
Failure to maintain our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity, capital position, ability to hedge certain financial risks, borrowing costs and access to capital markets.
Our credit risk is evaluated by the major independent rating agencies, and such agencies have in the past and could in the future downgrade our ratings.
We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings, and any additional actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under further review for a downgrade, may have a negative impact on our liquidity, capital position, ability to hedge certain financial risks and access to capital markets.
In addition, changes by any rating agency to our outlook or credit rating could increase the interest we pay on outstanding or future debt.
There are risks associated with our outstanding and future indebtedness that could adversely affect our financial condition.
•We must use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on the term loans and revolving credit facility and our existing senior notes and other indebtedness, which reduces funds available to us for other purposes such as working capital, capital expenditures, other general corporate purposes and potential acquisitions;

•We may be unable to refinance our indebtedness or to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes;

•We are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates because borrowings under our senior credit facilities bear interest at variable rates;

•Our leverage may be greater than that of some of our competitors, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage and reduce our flexibility in responding to current and changing industry and financial market conditions;

•We may be more vulnerable to an economic downturn and adverse developments in our business;

•We may be unable to comply with financial and other covenants in our debt agreements, which could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, may result in acceleration of certain of our debt and would have an adverse effect on our business and prospects and could force us into bankruptcy or liquidation; and


There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage any of these risks successfully.
In addition, we conduct a significant portion of our operations through our subsidiaries, which are generally not guarantors of our debt.
Accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness will be dependent in part on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise.
In general, our subsidiaries will not have any obligation to pay amounts due on our debt or to make funds available for that purpose.
Our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness.
Each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity, and under certain circumstances legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries.
In the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make the required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness.
Our existing credit agreements impose operating and financial restrictions on us.
•Incur additional debt;

•Create liens on certain assets to secure debt;

•Enter into certain sale and leaseback transactions;

•Pay dividends on or make other distributions in respect of our capital stock or make other restricted payments; and

•Consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets.
All of these covenants may adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, meet or otherwise address our capital needs, pursue business opportunities, react to market conditions or otherwise restrict activities or business plans.
A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default in respect of the related indebtedness.
If a default occurs, the relevant lenders could elect to declare the indebtedness, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable and, to the extent such indebtedness is secured in the future, proceed against any collateral securing that indebtedness.
Some of our products contain “open source” software, and any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of these open source licenses could negatively affect our business.
Certain of our products are distributed with software licensed by its authors or other third parties under so-called “open source” licenses, which may include, by way of example, the GNU General Public License, GNU Lesser General Public License, the Mozilla Public License, the BSD License, and the Apache License.
Some of these licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the open source software, and that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of a particular open source license or other license granting third parties certain rights of further use.
By the terms of certain open source licenses, we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary software if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner.
In addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on origin of the software.
We have established processes to help alleviate these risks, including a review process for screening requests from our development organizations for the use of open source, but we cannot be sure that all open source is submitted for approval prior to use in our products.
In addition, many of the risks associated with usage of open source cannot be eliminated, and could, if not properly addressed, negatively affect our business.
We sell products and services through government contracting programs directly and via partners, though we no longer hold a GSA contract.
In the ordinary course of business, sales under these government contracting programs may be subject to audit or investigation by the U.S. government.
Noncompliance identified as a result of such reviews (as well as noncompliance identified on our own) could subject us to damages and other penalties, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds




Item 6.
Exhibits



†This exhibit is being furnished rather than filed, and shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing, in accordance with Item 601 of Regulation S-K.

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
