Item 2.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Forward-looking statements and factors that may affect future results
The discussion below contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to safe harbors under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) and the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
Forward-looking statements include references to our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets, as well as statements including words such as “expects,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “predicts,” “projects,” and similar expressions.
In addition, projections of our future financial performance, anticipated growth and trends in our businesses and in our industries, the anticipated impacts of acquisitions, divestitures and of our restructurings, our intent to pay quarterly cash dividends in the future, and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements.
These statements are only predictions, based on our current expectations about future events and may not prove to be accurate.
We do not undertake any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect events occurring or circumstances arising after the date of this report.
These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and our actual results, performance, or achievements could differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements on the basis of several factors, including those that we discuss in Risk Factors, set forth in Part I, Item 1A, of our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 and in Part II Item 1A, of this quarterly report on Form 10-Q.
We encourage you to read those sections carefully.
OVERVIEW
Our business
Symantec Corporation is a global leader in cybersecurity.
We operate our business on a global civilian cyber intelligence threat network and track a vast number of threats across the Internet from hundreds of millions of mobile devices, endpoints, and servers across the globe.
We believe one of our competitive advantages is our database of threat indicators.
This database allows us to reduce the number of false positives and provide faster and better protection for customers through our products.
We are leveraging our capabilities to deliver integrated solutions for customers.
We are also pioneering solutions in markets such as cloud security, digital safety, advanced threat protection, identity protection, information protection and cyber security services.
Fiscal calendar
Strategy
Our strategy is to deliver comprehensive cyber security solutions for both enterprises and consumers.
Our enterprise security strategy is to deliver an Integrated Cyber Defense platform that allows Symantec products to share threat intelligence and improve security outcomes for customers across all control points.
Symantec is the leading vendor in protecting users, information, web and messaging across an integrated platform.
Our consumer digital safety strategy is to deliver the most comprehensive consumer digital safety solutions to help people protect their information, identities, devices and families.
Our financial highlights and results of operations
On October 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our website security (“WSS”) and public key infrastructure (“PKI”) solutions to DigiCert Parent Inc. (“DigiCert”) for an aggregate consideration of $1.1 billion, consisting of approximately $960 million in cash and shares of common stock representing an approximate 28% interest in the outstanding common stock of DigiCert valued at $160 million as of the transaction date.
The results of operations of our WSS and PKI solutions prior to the divestiture are reported in our consolidated results of operations through October 31, 2017.
The cash consideration is subject to adjustment for WSS and PKI closing date cash and working capital as specified in the purchase agreement.
See Note 6 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on our divestiture.
The following discussion relates to the results of our continuing operations and our total Company cash flows unless stated otherwise.
Our operating segments
•Consumer Digital Safety.
Our Consumer Digital Safety segment focuses on providing a comprehensive Digital Safety solution to protect information, devices, networks and the identities of consumers.
This solution includes our Norton-branded services, which provide multi-layer security across major desktop and mobile operating systems, public Wi-Fi connections, and home networks, to defend against increasingly complex online threats to individuals, families and small businesses, and our LifeLock-branded identity protection services.
Our LifeLock-branded identity protection services primarily consist of identifying and notifying users of identity-related and other events and assisting users in remediating their impact.
With the addition of LifeLock-branded identity protection services, we are providing a comprehensive digital safety solution designed to protect information across devices, customer identities and the connected home and family and accelerating our leadership in Consumer Digital Safety to protect all aspects of consumers’ digital lives.
For more information on our operating segments see Note 2 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
 Financial highlights and business trends
The following is an overview of key financial metrics in millions and the respective metrics as a percentage of revenues.
•Gross margin increased 2 percentage points compared to the corresponding period in the prior year due to the mix of customer and products, as our higher margin Consumer Digital Safety segment contributed to a larger proportion of the total gross profit.
•Operating margin increased 10 percentage points compared to the corresponding period in the prior year primarily driven by increased revenue and decreased sales and marketing and general administrative expense relative to our revenue partially due to savings from our ongoing cost reduction initiatives.
•Operating margin decreased 2 percentage points compared to the corresponding period in the prior year, primarily due to the decreased gross margin, increased stock-based compensation expense and advertising and promotion expense, partly offset by savings from our ongoing cost reduction initiatives.
•We repaid debt totaling $2.6 billion as part of our plan to deleverage our balance sheet.
•We paid aggregate cash consideration of $402 million for our acquisitions.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Net revenues by geographic region
Percentage of revenue by geographic region presented below is based on the billing location of the customer.
Our percentage of revenues from the Americas for the three and nine months ended December 29, 2017 increased compared to prior year periods primarily as a result of LifeLock sales which are entirely U.S.-based.
Our international sales are expected to continue to be a significant portion of our revenue.
As a result, we expect revenue to continue to be affected by foreign currency exchange rates as compared to the U.S. dollar.
We are unable to predict the extent to which revenue in future periods will be impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
If international sales become a greater portion of our total sales in the future, changes in foreign currency exchange rates may have a potentially greater impact on our revenue and operating results.
Cost of revenues
Cost of revenues consists primarily of technical support costs, costs of billable services, fees to original equipment manufacturers under revenue-sharing agreements, hardware costs, and fulfillment costs, as well as intangible asset amortization expense.
The amounts below are presented in millions and the percentages are a percentage of revenues.
Three Months Ended December 29, 2017 Compared with Three Months Ended December 30, 2016
Our cost of revenues increased $14 million, or 6%, primarily due to cost of revenues related to our acquired LifeLock products, partially offset by lower cost of revenues from our divested WSS and PKI solutions.
Nine Months Ended December 29, 2017 Compared with Nine Months Ended December 30, 2016
Our cost of revenues increased $174 million, or 29%, primarily due to cost of revenues related to our acquired Blue Coat and LifeLock products, including $83 million of increased amortization of acquired intangible assets and $52 million of increased technical support costs primarily driven by the LifeLock acquisition.
Operating expenses
The following amounts are in millions and the percentages are a percentage of revenues.
Three Months Ended December 29, 2017 Compared with Three Months Ended December 30, 2016
Sales and marketing expense were relatively flat compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017.
Research and development expense increased $21 million, or 10%, primarily due to an increase of $24 million in stock-based compensation expense primarily related to the equity awards assumed or granted in connection with our acquisitions.
General and administrative expense was relatively flat compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017.
Amortization of intangible assets increased $9 million primarily due to the intangible assets acquired in the LifeLock acquisition.
Nine Months Ended December 29, 2017 Compared with Nine Months Ended December 30, 2016
Sales and marketing expense increased $233 million, or 23%, primarily as a result of increased expenses from the Blue Coat and LifeLock acquisitions, including increases of $143 million in advertising and promotional expense, largely related to LifeLock, $60 million in stock-based compensation expense, primarily from awards assumed in acquisitions, and $36 million in other compensation and benefits expense.
These increases were partially offset by the decreased expenses from our divested WSS and PKI solutions.
Research and development expense increased $125 million, or 22%, primarily as a result of increased expenses from the Blue Coat and LifeLock acquisitions, including increases of $79 million in stock-based compensation expense and $23 million in other compensation and benefits expense.
General and administrative expense increased $71 million primarily as a result of increases of $70 million in stock-based compensation expense and $28 million in other compensation and benefits expense, primarily due to the Blue Coat and LifeLock acquisitions, partially offset by a decrease of $34 million in acquisition-related costs due to a lower level of acquisition activities in fiscal 2018.
Our stock-based compensation expense included in operating expenses increased $209 million, or 96%, primarily due to the equity awards assumed in our acquisitions, and the expected level of achievement for performance-based equity awards.
Amortization of intangible assets increased $75 million primarily due to the intangible assets acquired in the Blue Coat and LifeLock acquisitions.
Restructuring, transition and other costs
We initiated a restructuring plan in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 to reduce complexity by means of long-term structural improvements.
We have reduced headcount and closed certain facilities under the restructuring plan.
During the three and nine months ended December 29, 2017, we also incurred divestiture costs as a result of the sale of our WSS and PKI solutions, as well as costs associated with our other transition and transformation programs including the implementation of a new enterprise resource planning system and costs to automate business processes.
Restructuring, transition and other costs primarily consisted of $11 million and $75 million of severance costs and transition costs, respectively, during the third quarter in fiscal 2018, compared to $19 million and$26 million, respectively, during the same period in fiscal 2017.
Restructuring, transition and other costs primarily consisted of $50 million and $195 million of severance costs and transition costs, respectively, during the first nine months of fiscal 2018, compared to $57 million and $71 million, respectively, during the same period in fiscal 2017.
See Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our restructuring, transition and other costs.
Non-operating income (expense), net
The following charts are in millions.
Non-operating income (expense), net, increased during the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2018, compared to the same periods in fiscal 2017, primarily due to a $658 million gain as a result of our divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions.
See Note 6 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on our divestiture.
The increase in non-operating income (expense), net, for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 from our divestiture was partially offset by increased interest expense of $65 million mainly related to the timing of the issuance of the borrowings in fiscal 2017 as well as a foreign currency net loss of $26 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2018, compared to a net gain of $3 million in the same period in fiscal 2017.
Provision for income taxes
The following charts are in millions except for percentages.
Our effective tax rate for income from continuing operations for the three and nine months ended December 29, 2017 differs from the federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to accounting for the effects of enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (H.R.1) or the “Act” on December 22, 2017, the benefits of lower-taxed international earnings, the research and development tax credit, and excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation, partially offset by various permanent differences.
In the third quarter of fiscal 2018, we revised our estimated annual effective rate to reflect a change in the federal statutory rate from 35% to 21%, as a result of the enactment of the Act, which included broad tax reforms that are applicable to us.
The rate change is effective January 1, 2018 and therefore will require us to use a blended U.S. statutory rate of 31.58% for our fiscal year 2018.
As a result, we recognized a tax benefit in our tax provision for the three and nine months ended December 29, 2017 related to applying the new blended tax rate to our taxable income, as well as adjusting our deferred tax balance to reflect the application of the Act.
Our effective tax rate for loss from continuing operations for the three and nine months ended December 30, 2016 was based on the historic statutory tax rate of 35%.
Our effective tax rate for loss from continuing operations for the three months ended December 30, 2016 differs from the federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to the benefits of lower-taxed international earnings and the research and development credit, partially offset by various permanent differences.
Our effective tax rate for loss from continuing operations for the nine months ended December 30, 2016 differs from the federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to the benefits of lower-taxed international earnings and the research and development credit, partially offset by various permanent differences and tax expense related to the loss of tax attributes due to restructuring activities.
Additionally, as pre-tax income (loss) approaches break even, small changes can produce significant variability in the effective tax rate.
For the three and nine months ended December 29, 2017, we recorded an income tax benefit of $30 million and an income tax expense of $7 million on discontinued operations, respectively.
For the three and nine months ended December 30, 2016, we recorded an income tax benefit of $85 million and an income tax expense of $49 million on discontinued operations, respectively.
See Note 13 for further details regarding discontinued operations.
Income tax expense from continuing operations for the three and nine months ended December 29, 2017 was adjusted to reflect the discrete effects of the Act and resulted in an increase in income tax benefit of $810 million.
This includes an income tax benefit of $1.6 billion resulting from the application of the Act to existing deferred tax balances, including a reduction of the previously accrued deferred tax liability for foreign earnings by $1.4 billion.
This was partially offset by $821 million of tax expense that was recorded for the one-time transition tax liability under the Act.
As of December 29, 2017, we have not completed our accounting for the tax effects of enactment of the Act; however, in certain cases, we have made a reasonable estimate of the effects on our existing deferred tax balances and the one-time transition tax.
These amounts may require further adjustments as a result of additional future guidance from the U.S. Department of the Treasury, changes in our assumptions, and the availability of further information and interpretations.
In other cases, we have not been able to make a reasonable estimate and we continue to account for those items based on our existing accounting policies and the provisions of the tax laws that were in effect immediately prior to enactment.
For the items for which we were able to determine a reasonable estimate, we recognized a provisional tax benefit of $810 million, which is included as a component of income tax expense from continuing operations.
See Note 5 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information for additional information regarding our estimates.
We are a U.S.-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple U.S. and international tax jurisdictions.
A substantial portion of our international earnings were generated from subsidiaries organized in Ireland and Singapore.
Our results of operations would be adversely affected to the extent that our geographical mix of income becomes more weighted toward jurisdictions with higher tax rates and would be favorably affected to the extent the relative geographic mix shifts to lower tax jurisdictions.
Any change in our mix of earnings is dependent upon many factors and is therefore difficult to predict.
The timing of the resolution of income tax examinations is highly uncertain, and the amounts ultimately paid, if any, upon resolution of the issues raised by the taxing authorities may differ materially from the amounts accrued for each year.
Although potential resolution of uncertain tax positions involve multiple tax periods and jurisdictions, it is reasonably possible that the gross unrecognized tax benefits related to these audits could decrease, whether by payment, release, or a combination of both, in the next 12 months by $13 million, which could reduce our income tax provision and therefore benefit the resulting effective tax rate.
We continue to monitor the progress of ongoing income tax controversies and the impact, if any, of the expected expiration of the statute of limitations in various taxing jurisdictions.
Segment operating results
Enterprise Security Segment
The following amounts are in millions and the percentages are a percentage of Enterprise Security segment revenues.
Three Months Ended December 29, 2017 Compared with Three Months Ended December 30, 2016
Revenue decreased $19 million, or 3%, primarily due to a $69 million decrease in revenue from our WSS and PKI solutions as a result of the divestiture on October 31, 2017, partially offset by an increase in revenue from our network protection solutions.
Revenue during the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was also unfavorably affected by a shift in sales to products with ratable revenue recognition, and away from product and license sales, as customers are increasingly adopting our cloud, subscription and virtual appliance products in line with our business strategy.
This resulted in less in-quarter recognized revenue and more revenue deferred to the balance sheet.
We expect this trend to continue at least through the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 as our business model continues to evolve to more arrangements subject to ratable revenue recognition.
Operating income increased $78 million, or 134%, primarily due to improved gross margin and decreased sales and marketing expense.
Nine Months Ended December 29, 2017 Compared with Nine Months Ended December 30, 2016
Revenue increased $258 million, or 15%, primarily due to the full period impact of the Blue Coat acquisition, partially offset by a decrease of $80 million in revenue as a result of the divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions on October 31, 2017.
Revenue during the first nine months of fiscal 2018 was also unfavorably affected by our shift to products with ratable revenue recognition as described above.
Operating income increased $266 million, or 240%, primarily due to the contribution from the Blue Coat acquisition.
Consumer Digital Safety Segment
The following amounts are in millions and the percentages are a percentage of Consumer Digital Safety Segment revenues.
Three Months Ended December 29, 2017 Compared with Three Months Ended December 30, 2016
Revenue increased $187 million, or 47%, primarily due to revenue from sales of LifeLock products in the third quarter of fiscal 2018, which were absent in the third quarter of fiscal 2017.
Our revenue growth reflects the benefit of the shift to subscription-based contracts and combined packaging of our consumer products, which is helping to mitigate the trend of declining revenues from sales of stand-alone Norton-branded products.
Operating income increased $89 million, or 42%, primarily due to the contribution from the LifeLock acquisition.
Nine Months Ended December 29, 2017 Compared with Nine Months Ended December 30, 2016
Revenue increased $462 million, or 38%, primarily due to revenue from sales of LifeLock products in the first nine months of fiscal 2018, which were absent in the same period in fiscal 2017.
We were also impacted by the trends related to our Norton products discussed above.
Operating income increased $122 million, or 18%, primarily due to the contribution from the LifeLock acquisition.
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
We have historically relied on cash flow from operations, borrowings under credit facilities, issuances of debt, and the sale of a business, for our liquidity needs.
As of December 29, 2017, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $2.5 billion.
We manage our investment portfolio with the objective to achieve greater investment diversification and higher yields while preserving capital and liquidity.
Another potential source of liquidity is our unused credit facility of $1.0 billion, which expires in May 2021.
Our principal cash requirements primarily consist of acquisitions, operating expenses, payment of taxes, capital expenditures, and contractual payments of principal and interest on debt.
As a part of our plan to deleverage our balance sheet, we may from time to time in the future make additional optional repayments of our debt obligations, which may include repurchases of our outstanding debt, depending on various factors such as market conditions.
As of December 29, 2017, $1.6 billion in cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments were held by our foreign subsidiaries.
We have provided U.S. deferred taxes on a portion of our undistributed foreign earnings sufficient to address the incremental U.S. tax that would be due if we needed those funds to support our operations in the U.S. As a result of the Act enacted on December 22, 2017, we have recorded a provisional liability for the one-time transition tax, payable over eight years, of $821 million.
Approximately $92 million is reflected as a current tax payable and the remainder as a long-term liability.
Furthermore, our capital allocation strategy contemplates a quarterly cash dividend and an on-going evaluation of our ability to repurchase shares of our common stock.
We initiated a restructuring plan in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 to reduce complexity by means of long-term structural improvements.
We have reduced headcount and closed certain facilities under the restructuring plan.
We expect the plan to be substantially completed in the first half of fiscal 2019 and expect additional cash charges of approximately $70 million to $90 million, primarily related to severance benefits and facilities exit costs.
See Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on our restructuring plan.
Sources and uses of cash
The following summarizes selected items in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the nine months ended December 29, 2017 and December 30, 2016, in millions.
Operating activities
Our primary source of cash has been cash collections from our customers.
Due to seasonality, our orders are generally higher in our third and fourth fiscal quarters and lower in our first and second fiscal quarters.
Cash inflows are affected by these fluctuations in our billings and timing of the related collections.
Our primary uses of cash include payments for compensation and related costs, payments to our resellers and distribution partners, payments for income taxes, and other general corporate expenditures.
Our cash flows from operations for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 were $684 million, compared to net cash used of $564 million for the same period in fiscal 2017.
Our cash flows in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 reflected $1.6 billion of discrete deferred income tax benefit related to adjustments of deferred taxes as a result of the enactment of the Act in December 2017 and $821 million in taxes payable as a result of transition taxes.
Our cash flows in the first nine months of fiscal 2017 reflected a one-time tax payment of $887 million related to the gain on sale from the divestiture of Veritas.
In addition, our cash flows from operations in the first nine months of fiscal 2018, compared to the corresponding period in the prior year, were favorably impacted by an increase in deferred revenue of $258 million, reflecting increased billings and collections for ratable contracts, as well as longer contract duration.
Investing activities
Our investing cash flows consist primarily of proceeds from divestitures, payments for acquisitions and net purchases of short-term investments.
Our investing activities during the first nine months of fiscal 2018 included $946 million in net cash proceeds from the divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions in the third quarter of fiscal 2018, partially offset by $402 million paid for acquisitions during the first nine months of fiscal 2018, compared to $4.5 billion paid during the same period for fiscal 2017 for the Blue Coat acquisition.
See Note 6 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on our divestiture and acquisitions.
In addition, during the first nine months of fiscal 2018, we had net purchases of $383 million of short-term investments.
Financing activities
Our financing cash flows consist primarily of issuances and repayments of debt, payment of dividends and dividend equivalents to stockholders, and tax payments related to shares withheld in the settlement of restricted stock units (“RSUs”).
Our primary financing activities during the first nine months of fiscal 2018 consisted of debt repayments of $2.6 billion, while our primary financing activities in the first nine months of fiscal 2017 consisted of borrowings of $5.0 billion, net of issuance costs.
Debt.
As of December 29, 2017, our total outstanding principal amount of our debt was $5.7 billion.
See Note 8 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our debt.
Dividends.
On January 31, 2018, we declared a cash dividend of $0.075 per share of common stock to be paid on March 14, 2018, to all stockholders of record as of the close of business on February 20, 2018.
All shares of common stock issued and outstanding and all shares of unvested restricted stock and performance-based stock as of the record date will be entitled to the dividend and dividend equivalents, respectively.
Any future dividends and dividend equivalents will be subject to the approval of our Board of Directors.
See Note 10 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on our dividends and dividend equivalents.
Share repurchases.
Under our stock repurchase programs, we may purchase shares of our outstanding common stock through open market and through accelerated stock repurchase (“ASR”) transactions.
As of December 29, 2017, the remaining balance of our share repurchase authorization is $800 million and does not have an expiration date.
Contractual obligations
Our contractual obligations primarily consist of future payments due under our debt, purchase orders, lease arrangements and certain tax regulations.
The table below summarizes contractual obligations as of December 29, 2017 that have materially changed from our disclosure in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, set forth in Part II, Item 7, of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017.
Indemnifications
In the ordinary course of business, we may provide indemnifications of varying scope and terms to customers, vendors, lessors, business partners, subsidiaries and other parties with respect to certain matters, including, but not limited to, losses arising out of our breach of agreements or representations and warranties made by us.
In addition, our bylaws contain indemnification obligations to our directors, officers, employees and agents, and we have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors and certain of our officers to give such directors and officers additional contractual assurances regarding the scope of the indemnification set forth in our bylaws and to provide additional procedural protections.
We maintain director and officer insurance, which may cover certain liabilities arising from our obligation to indemnify our directors and officers.
It is not possible to determine the aggregate maximum potential loss under these indemnification agreements due to the limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement.
Such indemnification agreements might not be subject to maximum loss clauses.
Historically, we have not incurred material costs as a result of obligations under these agreements and we have not accrued any liabilities related to such indemnification obligations in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
In connection with the sale of Veritas, we assigned several leases to Veritas Technologies LLC or its related subsidiaries.
As a condition to consenting to the assignments, certain lessors required us to agree to indemnify the lessor under the applicable lease with respect to certain matters, including, but not limited to, losses arising out of Veritas Technologies LLC or its related subsidiaries’ breach of payment obligations under the terms of the lease.
As with our other indemnification obligations discussed above and in general, it is not possible to determine the aggregate maximum potential loss under these indemnification agreements due to the limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement.
As with our other indemnification obligations, such indemnification agreements might not be subject to maximum loss clauses and to date, generally under our real estate obligations, we have not incurred material costs as a result of such obligations under our leases and have not accrued any liabilities related to such indemnification obligations in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
We provide limited product warranties and the majority of our software license agreements contain provisions that indemnify licensees of our software from damages and costs resulting from claims alleging that our software infringes on the intellectual property rights of a third party.
Historically, payments made under these provisions have been immaterial.
We monitor the conditions that are subject to indemnification to identify if a loss has occurred.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES
There have been no material changes in the matters for which we make critical accounting estimates in the preparation of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements during the nine months ended December 29, 2017, as compared to those disclosed in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017.
Recently issued authoritative guidance not yet adopted
Revenue Recognition - Contracts with Customers.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued new authoritative guidance for revenue from contracts with customers.
The standard’s core principle is that a company will recognize revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that the company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services.
In doing so, companies will need to use more judgment and make more estimates than under current guidance.
These may include identifying performance obligations in the contract, estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price, and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation.
In March 2016, the FASB clarified implementation guidance on principal versus agent considerations.
In April 2016, the FASB issued guidance related to identifying performance obligations and licensing which reduces the cost and complexity of applying certain aspects of the guidance both at implementation and on an ongoing basis.
The new guidance may be applied retrospectively to each prior period presented (“retrospective”) or retrospectively with cumulative effect recognized in retained earnings as of the date of adoption (“modified retrospective”).
We expect to adopt the new standard on a modified retrospective basis in our first quarter of fiscal 2019.
•the pattern and timing of the recognition of revenue for certain license fees;
•the allocation of revenue across performance obligations in multiple element arrangements; and
•required disclosures, including information about the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations and expected timing of revenue recognition.
We will continue to assess the impact of new guidance including any changes to systems, processes and the control environment as we work through the adoption, and there remain areas still to be fully concluded upon.
Financial Instruments - Recognition and Measurement.
In January 2016, the FASB issued new authoritative guidance on financial instruments.
The new guidance enhances the reporting model for financial instruments, which includes amendments to address aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure.
The new guidance will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Early adoption is permitted under limited circumstances but we do not intend to adopt the provisions of the new guidance early.
We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this guidance on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Leases.
In February 2016, the FASB issued new guidance on lease accounting which will require lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on their balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by operating leases and will also require disclosures designed to give users of financial statements information on the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
The new guidance will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2020.
Early adoption is permitted but we do not plan to adopt the provisions of the new guidance early.
We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this guidance on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
We are currently in the assessment phase to determine the adoption methodology and are evaluating the impact of this new standard on our consolidated financial statements and disclosures.
We expect that most of our operating lease commitments will be subject to the new standard and recognized as lease liabilities and right-of-use assets upon adoption, which will increase the total assets and total liabilities we report.
We are evaluating the impact to our consolidated financial statements as it relates to other aspects of the business.
Credit Losses.
In June 2016, the FASB issued new authoritative guidance on credit losses which changes the impairment model for most financial assets and certain other instruments.
For trade receivables and other instruments, we will be required to use a new forward-looking “expected loss” model.
Additionally, for available-for-sale debt securities with unrealized losses, we will measure credit losses in a manner similar to today, except that the losses will be recognized as allowances rather than reductions in the amortized cost of the securities.
The standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2021.
We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this guidance on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Income Taxes - Intra-Entity Asset Transfers Other Than Inventory.
In October 2016, the FASB issued new authoritative guidance that requires entities to immediately recognize the tax consequences of intercompany asset transfers, excluding inventory, at the transaction date, rather than deferring the tax consequences under current U.S. GAAP.
The standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2019, and requires a modified retrospective transition method.
We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this guidance and anticipate it will have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Although there are several other new accounting pronouncements issued or proposed by the FASB that we have adopted or will adopt, as applicable, we do not believe any of these accounting pronouncements has had or will have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, operating results or disclosures.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
Item 6.
Exhibits
†This exhibit is being furnished rather than filed, and shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing, in accordance with Item 601 of Regulation S-K.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
