fls.txt
Actual events in the future could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking information.


item1.txt
See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
Early adoption of the update is permitted.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the new standard.
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-15, “Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments”.
This update provides guidance on how to record eight specific cash flow issues.
The adoption of this ASU had no impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
In November 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-18, “Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230)”, requiring that the statement of cash flows explain the change in the total cash, cash equivalents, and amounts generally described as restricted cash or restricted cash equivalents.
The adoption of this ASU had no impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
In addition the Company’s Bioprocessing Systems Operations’ revenues are comprised of royalty revenues.
All revenue is recognized when the Company satisfies its performance obligation(s) under the contract (either implicit or explicit) by transferring the promised product or service to its customer either when (or as) its customer obtains control of the product or service.
A contract’s transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation.
Revenue is measured as the amount of consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for transferring products or providing services.
As such, revenue is recorded net of returns, allowances, customer discounts, and incentives.
The FASB defines the fair value of financial instruments as the amount that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
Fair value measurements do not include transaction costs.
Level 1 - Inputs that are based upon unadjusted quoted prices for identical instruments traded in active markets.
The measurement is based on significant inputs that are not observable in the market, therefore, the Company classifies this liability as Level 3 in the following tables.
6.
Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net assets acquired in connection with the Company’s acquisitions.
7.
Item 2.
Forward-Looking statements.


