ITEM 4: CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures 

Our management, with the participation of our chief executive officer (“CEO”) and our chief financial officer (“CFO”), evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) as of September 29, 2018.
Our management, including the CEO and the CFO, has concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of September 29, 2018.
The purpose of these controls and procedures is to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our CEO and our CFO, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting 

There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended September 29, 2018 that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect our internal control over financial reporting.
Inherent Limitations on the Effectiveness of Internal Controls 

A system of internal control over financial reporting is intended to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP, and no control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide absolute assurance.
The design of any control system is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect financial statement errors and misstatements.
Also, projection of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods is subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
OTHER INFORMATION

ITEM 1: LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

The information set forth above under Part I, Item 1, Note 11 “Commitments and Contingencies” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS

A description of risks associated with our business, financial condition and results of our operations is set forth in Item 1A - Risk Factors of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018, which is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 2: UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS

On July 20, 2017, the board of directors of the Company authorized the repurchase of up to $1.0 billion of the Company's common stock.
The stock repurchase authorization does not have an expiration date and the pace of repurchase activity will depend on factors such as current stock price, levels of cash generation from operations, cash requirements, and other factors.
The Company's prior repurchase authorization was cancelled and superseded by this repurchase authorization.
In the fiscal quarter ended September 29, 2018, the Company repurchased approximately 1.9 million shares of its common stock for approximately $112.5 million.
As of September 29, 2018, the Company had remaining authorization of $505.9 million for future share repurchases.
The number of shares to be repurchased and the timing of such repurchases will be based on several factors, including the price of the Company’s common stock and general market and business conditions.
On October 30, 2018, the board of directors of the Company authorized the repurchase of up to $1.5 billion of the Company’s common stock.
This stock repurchase authorization does not have an expiration date and the pace of repurchase activity will depend on factors such as current stock price, levels of cash generation from operations, cash requirements, and other factors.
The Company’s prior repurchase authorization has been cancelled and superseded by this new repurchase authorization.
ITEM 6: EXHIBITS


10.1 (A)Form of Global Performance Share Agreement for FY19 Grants

10.2 (A)Form of Global Employee Stock Purchase Plan Agreement

31.1Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act

31.2Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act

32.1Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350 (1) 

32.2Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350 (1) 




In accordance with Rule 406T of Regulation S-T, the XBRL-related information in Exhibit 101 to this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q is deemed not filed or part of a registration statement or prospectus for purposes of Sections 11 or 12 of the Securities Act, is deemed not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, and otherwise is not subject to liability under these sections.
SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the report has been signed below by the following person on behalf of the registrant and in the capacity indicated.
