fls.txt
Such statements, whether expressed or implied, are based upon current expectations of the Company and speak only as of the date made.


item1.txt
The interim condensed consolidated financial statements are unaudited and are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America for interim financial information, and rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The Company recognizes revenue when it satisfies the performance obligation in its customer contracts or purchase orders.
Control is generally transferred at time of shipment when title and risk of ownership passes to the customer.
Installation is a separate performance obligation, except for our digital signage products.
For digital signage products, installation is not a separate performance obligation as the product and installation is the combined item promised in digital signage contracts.
The Company is not always responsible for installation of products it sells and has no post-installation responsibilities other than standard warranties.
Installation revenue is recognized over time as our customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided through the installation process.
The table presents a reconciliation of the disaggregation by reportable segments.
Legacy products include lighting fixtures utilizing light sources other than LED technology and printed two and three dimensional graphic products.
Turnkey services and other includes installation services along with shipping and handling charges.
Shipping costs that are not material in context of the delivery of products are expensed as incurred.
Assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated using period end exchange rates.
On July 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2014-09.


item2.txt
We are in the business of designing, manufacturing and marketing lighting, graphics and technology solutions for both indoor and outdoor applications.
Both fiscal years recorded goodwill impairment charges in the Lighting Segment.
Refer to “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” below.
The Company believes it is appropriate to evaluate its performance after making adjustments to the as-reported U.S. GAAP operating income, net income, and earnings per share.
We believe that these adjusted supplemental measures are useful in assessing the operating performance of our business.
Below is a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to operating income, net income, and earnings per share for the periods indicated.
The reconciliation of reported earnings per share to adjusted earnings per share may not produce identical amounts due to rounding differences and due to the difference between basic and dilutive weighted average shares outstanding in the computation of earnings per share.
The reconciliation of reported earnings per share to adjusted earnings per share may not produce identical amounts due to rounding differences and due to the difference between basic and dilutive weighted average shares outstanding in the computation of earnings per share.
The Company also elected not to run any quarter-end promotional programs in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to several promotional programs which were conducted at the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
These large projects including hundreds and potentially thousands of individual locations, with lengthy project life cycles, are competitive and initially generate lower margins.
The business will work to improve the margins on these projects over their life cycle.
The gross (loss) relates to the change in the intercompany profit in inventory elimination.
The Company reported $579,000 net interest expense in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to $400,000 net interest expense in the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
The change in interest expense from fiscal 2018 to fiscal 2019 is the result of higher interest rates on the Company’s line of credit.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The foregoing description of the Fourth Amendment does not purport to be complete.


