fls.txt
Such statements, whether expressed or implied, are based upon current expectations of the Company and speak only as of the date made.


item1.txt
The accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these financial statements.
The accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these financial statements.
The accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these financial statements.
The accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these financial statements.
The interim condensed consolidated financial statements are unaudited and are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America for interim financial information, and rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Payment terms are typically within 30 to 90 days from the shipping date, depending on our terms with the customer.
Installation is a separate performance obligation, except for our digital signage products.
For digital signage products, installation is not a separate performance obligation as the product and installation is the combined item promised in digital signage contracts.
Installation revenue is recognized over time as our customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided through the installation process.
The table presents a reconciliation of the disaggregation by reportable segments.
Legacy products include lighting fixtures utilizing light sources other than LED technology and printed two and three dimensional graphic products.
Turnkey services and other includes installation services along with shipping and handling charges.
The facility manufactures indoor lighting products and is included in the results of the Lighting Segment.
The Employment Agreement also defines his compensation and benefit package.
These reclassifications have no impact on net income or earnings per share.
There was no concentration of consolidated net sales in the three months ended  September 30, 2018 or 2017.


item2.txt
Refer to “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” below.
On October 29, 2018, The Company announced that it will permanently close its New Windsor, New York manufacturing facility.
The facility manufactures indoor lighting products and is included in the results of the Lighting Segment.
Production will be transferred to the Company’s Erlanger, Kentucky and Blue Ash, Ohio facilities, also included in the Lighting Segment.
The closure is part of ongoing actions to align the Company’s supply chain to more cost effectively serve the changing requirements of the lighting market.
The transfer of production is expected to be completed by June 30, 2019.
The Company believes it is appropriate to evaluate its performance after making adjustments to the as-reported U.S. GAAP operating income, net income, and earnings per share.
We believe that these adjusted supplemental measures are useful in assessing the operating performance of our business.
Below is a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to operating income, net income, and earnings per share for the periods indicated.
Lighting Segment net sales of $61,432,000 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased 10.2% from fiscal 2018 same period net sales of $68,428,000.
There continues to be a reduction in the Company’s traditional lighting sales (metal halide and fluorescent light sources) as customers convert from traditional lighting to light fixtures having solid-state LED technology.


item4.txt



part2.txt
31.1   Certification of Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer required by Rule 13a-14(a) 32.1   Section 1350 Certification of Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer 101.INS XBRL Instance Document 101.SCH XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 101.CAL XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 101.LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document


