Depreciation and amortization expense related to property and equipment for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 was $5.9 million and $1.9 million, respectively. 
Stock Option Activity—The weighted-average fair value of options granted during the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, as determined under the Black-Scholes-Merton valuation model, was $9.96 and $5.63, respectively. Option grants that vested during the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 had a combined fair value of $0.7 million and $0.8 million, respectively.
Restricted Stock Activity— There was no restricted stock activity during the three months ended March 31, 2018. The following table summarizes the restricted stock activity during the year ended December 31, 2017. 
Stock Compensation Expense—For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, we recorded $1.1 million and $1.0 million of stock-based compensation expense, respectively. No compensation expense of employees with stock awards, including stock-based compensation expense, was capitalized during the periods. For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, we recorded $(1.1) million and $0.1 million, respectively, to income tax expense (benefit) related to the exercise of stock options, vested cancellations and the vesting of restricted stock.
•Risk-free interest rate—The yield on zero-coupon U.S. Treasury strips was used to extrapolate a forward-yield curve. This “term structure” of future interest rates was then input into a numeric model to provide the equivalent risk-free rate to be used in the Black-Scholes-Merton model based on the expected term of the underlying grants.
We have $15.3 million outstanding on our letter of credit, of which $15.2 million is related to an outstanding performance bond in connection with a contract between ManTech MENA, LLC and Jadwalean International Operations and Management Company to fulfill technical support requirements for the Royal Saudi Air Force.
3.Revenue from Contracts with Customers
Stock Options—Under the Plan, we have issued stock options. A stock option gives the holder the right, but not the obligation to purchase a certain number of shares at a predetermined price for a specific period of time. We typically issue options that vest over three years in equal installments beginning on the first anniversary of the date of grant. Under the terms of the Plan, the contractual life of the option grants may not exceed eight years. During the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, we issued options that expire five years from the date of grant.
The terms of the credit agreement permit prepayment and termination of the loan commitments at any time, subject to certain conditions. The credit agreement requires us to comply with specified financial covenants, including the maintenance of certain leverage ratios and a certain consolidated coverage ratio. The credit agreement also contains various covenants, including affirmative covenants with respect to certain reporting requirements and maintaining certain business activities, and negative covenants that, among other things, may limit or impose restrictions on our ability to incur liens, incur additional indebtedness, make investments, make acquisitions and undertake certain other actions. As of and during the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, we were in compliance with the financial covenants under the credit agreement.
Contract liabilities - We receive advances and milestone payments from our customers on selected contracts that exceed revenue earned to date, resulting in contract liabilities. Contract liabilities typically are not considered a significant financing component because it is used to meet working capital demands that can be higher in the early stages of a contract and to protect us from the customer failing to adequately complete some or all of its obligations under the contract. Contract liabilities are reported on our condensed consolidated balance sheet on a net contract basis at the end of each reporting period.
We recognize revenue over time when there is a continuous transfer of control to our customer. For our U.S. government contracts, this continuous transfer of control to the customer is supported by clauses in the contract that allow the U.S. government to unilaterally terminate the contract for convenience, pay us for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit and take control of any work in process. When control is transferred over time, revenue is recognized based on the extent of progress towards completion The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to an increase in bid and proposal spending, amortization of acquired intangibles and expenditures to support infrastructure. 
The increase in cost of services was primarily due to increases in revenue. As a percentage of revenue, direct labor costs were 48% for the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to 49% for the same period in 2017. As a percentage of revenue, other direct costs, which include subcontractors as well as equipment and materials used in the performance of our contracts, was 37% for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017. 
Our operating cash flow is primarily affected by our ability to invoice and collect from our customers in a timely manner, our management of vendor payments and the overall profitability of our contracts. We bill most of our customers monthly after services are rendered. Our accounts receivable days sales outstanding were 69 and 68 for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, our net cash used in operating activities were $18.0 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2017, our net cash flow from operating activities were $36.5 million. The decrease in net cash flows from (used in) operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2018 when compared to the same period in 2017 was primarily due to the timing of receivables.
For the three months ended March 31, 2018, our net cash flow from financing activities were $27.9 million, which were primarily due to net borrowings under on revolving credit facility and exercise of stock options partially offset by dividend payments. For the three months ended March 31, 2017, our net cash used in financing activities were $6.4 million, which were primarily due to dividends paid partially offset by the proceeds from the exercise of stock options. 
The primary driver of our increase in revenue relates to revenue from new contract awards, acquisitions and growth on certain existing contracts. These increases were offset by contracts and tasks that ended and reduced scope of work on some contracts. 
The increase in interest expense was due to increased borrowings under our credit facility to fund the acquisition of InfoZen in the fourth quarter of 2017 and the purchase of equipment to support a managed IT services contract. For additional information on the acquisition of InfoZen, see Note 4. Acquisitions to our condensed consolidated financial statements in Item I.Item 6.Exhibits