Depreciation and amortization expense related to property and equipment for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 was $6.9 million and $6.4 million, respectively. Depreciation and amortization expense related to property and equipment for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 was $19.4 million and $19.1 million, respectively.
For the three months ended and nine months ended September 30, 2019, the amount of revenue that was included in the opening contract liabilities balance were $0.9 million and $23.4 million, respectively. 
Stock Option Activity—The weighted-average fair value of options granted during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, as determined under the Black-Scholes-Merton valuation model, was $10.10 and $9.98, respectively. Option grants that vested during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 had a combined fair value of $1.2 million and $0.7 million, respectively.
•Risk-free interest rate—The yield on zero-coupon U.S. Treasury strips was used to extrapolate a forward-yield curve. This “term structure” of future interest rates was then input into a numeric model to provide the equivalent risk-free rate to be used in the Black-Scholes-Merton model based on the expected term of the underlying grants.
Restricted Stock Activity— The following table summarizes the restricted stock activity during the year ended December 31, 2018 and the nine months ended September 30, 2019.
Stock Compensation Expense—For the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, we recorded $2.0 million and $1.3 million of stock-based compensation expense. For the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, we recorded $5.2 million and $3.6 million of stock-based compensation expense. No compensation expense of employees with stock awards, 
Kforce Government Solutions (KGS)—On April 1, 2019, we completed the acquisition of KGS. KGS was a wholly owned subsidiary of the publicly traded commercial technology and staffing company KForce, Inc. The results of KGS's operations have been included in our condensed consolidated financial statements since that date. The acquisition was completed through an equity purchase agreement dated February 28, 2019, by and among Kforce Government Solutions, Inc and other beneficiaries and ManTech International Corporation. We funded the acquisition with cash on hand and borrowings on our revolving credit facility. KGS provides services, IT solutions, transformation and management consulting and data analytics - most notably in the healthcare IT market. This acquisition will expand our presence with important customers such as the Department of Veteran Affairs (VA). 
For contracts that do not meet the criteria to measure performance as a right to invoice under the series guidance, we utilize an Estimate at Completion process to measure progress toward completion. We typically estimate progress towards completion based on cost incurred or direct labor incurred. As part of this process, we review information including, but not limited to, any outstanding key contract matters, progress towards completion and the related program schedule, identified risks and opportunities and the related changes in estimates of revenue and costs. The risks and opportunities include judgments about the ability and cost to achieve the contract milestones and other technical contract requirements. We make assumptions and estimates regarding labor productivity and availability, the complexity of the work to be performed, the availability of materials, the length of time to complete the performance obligation, execution by our subcontractors, the availability and timing of funding from our customer and overhead cost rates, among other variables. A significant change in one or more of these estimates could affect the timing in which we recognize revenue on our contracts. For the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, the aggregate impact of adjustments in contract estimates increased our revenue by $5.9 million and $4.5 million, respectively. For the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, the aggregate impact of adjustments in contract estimates increased our revenue by $9.0 million and $8.8 million, respectively. 
We have $7.7 million outstanding on our letter of credit, of which $7.6 million is related to an outstanding performance bond in connection with a contract between ManTech MENA, LLC and Jadwalean International Operations and Management Company to fulfill technical support requirements for the Royal Saudi Air Force.
H2M Group (H2M)—On August 8, 2019, we completed the acquisition of H2M through a membership interest purchase agreement by and among H2M Group, HHM Holding LLC, and the Members and ManTech International Corporation. The results of H2M's operations have been included in our condensed consolidated financial statements since that date. We funded the acquisition with cash on hand and borrowings on our revolving credit facility. H2M is a provider of intelligence and analysis services and solutions primarily to the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA). This acquisition strengthens our ability to help key government agencies implement new automation techniques that enable intelligence analysts to more effectively navigate large amounts of data and to distill the critical information that informs actionable intelligence necessary to make mission-critical decisions.The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to increased expenditures on support infrastructure improvements, expenditures related to our recent acquisitions and other legal matters. These increases were partially offset by reduced bid and proposal spending, lower amortization on acquired intangibles and the reclassification of certain allocable expenses from general and administrative expenses to cost of services. We expect general and administrative expenses as a percent of revenue to increase slightly during the remainder of 2019 due to increased bid and proposal spending in the last quarter of 2019.
The increase in interest expense was due to increased borrowing on our revolving line of credit to fund the acquisitions of Kforce Government Solutions (KGS) and H2M Group (H2M). We expect interest expense to decrease slightly for the remainder of 2019 due to increased cash on hand. 
The increase in cost of services was primarily due to increases in revenue. As a percentage of revenue, direct labor costs were 46% for both the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018. As a percentage of revenues, other direct costs, which include subcontractors and third party equipment and materials used in the performance of our contracts, were 38% for the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to 39% for the same period in 2018. 
The increase in cost of services was primarily due to increases in revenue. As a percentage of revenue, direct labor costs were 47% and 48% for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. As a percentage of revenues, other direct costs, which include subcontractors and third party equipment and materials used in the performance of our contracts, were 38% for both the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018. 
The increase in interest expense was due to increased borrowings on our revolving line of credit to fund our acquisitions. 
The primary driver of our increase in revenues relates to revenue from new contract awards, growth on certain existing contracts and our recent acquisitions, which were offset by contracts and tasks that ended and reduced scope of work or lower material purchases on some contracts.
The primary driver of our increase in revenues was revenue from new contract awards and growth on certain existing contracts and our recent acquisitions, which was offset by contracts and tasks that ended and reduced scope of work on some contracts.
Approximately 98% of our revenues are generated through contracts with the U.S. federal government. As such, our business is impacted by the overall U.S. government budget and our ability to match our capabilities and offerings to the U.S. government's spending priorities. Through legislation passed in September 2018 and February 2019, all agencies of the U.S. federal government were funded through Government fiscal year (GFY) 2019. In August 2019, Congress passed and the president signed a new two-year budget deal, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2019. The Act effectively ended the threat of sequestration by increasing spending for GFY 2020 and 2021 above caps previously in place under the Budget Control Act. The GFY 2020 and 2021 budgets include increases for areas supporting national security. Despite the passage of a two year budget, Congress has not yet passed full year appropriations and as of October 1st, began operating under a Continuing Resolution (CR). If Congress is unable to approve appropriations by November 21st, the U.S. Government and its agencies may be subjected to funding restrictions through a CR or, if there is a failure to pass interim funding, a government shutdown. Item 6.Exhibits