Depreciation and amortization expense related to property and equipment for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 was $6.3 million and $5.9 million, respectively.
On April 1, 2019, we completed the acquisition of Kforce Government Solutions (KGS). KGS was a wholly owned subsidiary of the publicly traded commercial technology and staffing company Kforce, Inc. KGS provides IT solutions, transformation and management consulting, data analytics - most notably in the healthcare IT market. This acquisition will also expand our presence with important customers such as the Department of Veteran Affairs (VA). As specialists in serving the IT needs of defense and federal civilian agencies, KGS complements and builds on our core capabilities and solutions, adding the high-value specialty of health care IT. KGS has delivered innovation and sustainable solutions that transformed technology and business operations to drive enhanced mission execution for these customers. In addition to the VA, KGS's customers include the National Science Foundation, the Federal Reserve System, Defense Threat Reduction Agency, U.S. Air Force and U.S. Transportation Command. We funded the acquisition with cash on hand and borrowings under on revolving credit facility. The preliminary purchase price was $115.0 million.
Stock Option Activity—The weighted-average fair value of options granted during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, as determined under the Black-Scholes-Merton valuation model, was $10.04 and $9.96, respectively. Option grants that vested during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 had a combined fair value of $1.2 million and $0.7 million, respectively.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019, the amount of revenue that was included in the opening contract liabilities balance was $18.0 million. 
Restricted Stock Activity— There was no restricted stock activity during the three months ended March 31, 2019. The following table summarizes the restricted stock activity during the year ended December 31, 2018.
•Risk-free interest rate—The yield on zero-coupon U.S. Treasury strips was used to extrapolate a forward-yield curve. This “term structure” of future interest rates was then input into a numeric model to provide the equivalent risk-free rate to be used in the Black-Scholes-Merton model based on the expected term of the underlying grants.
Stock Compensation Expense—For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, we recorded $1.3 million and $1.1 million of stock-based compensation expense. No compensation expense of employees with stock awards, including stock-based compensation expense, was capitalized during the periods. For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, we recorded $0.2 million and $1.1 million, respectively, to income tax benefit related to the exercise of stock options, vested cancellations and the vesting of restricted stock.
contractual life of the option grants may not exceed eight years. During the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, we issued options that expire five years from the date of grant.
We have $7.7 million outstanding on our letter of credit, of which $14 thousand is related to an outstanding performance bond in connection with a contract between ManTech MENA, LLC and Jadwalean International Operations and Management Company to fulfill technical support requirements for the Royal Saudi Air Force.
For contracts that do not meet the criteria to measure performance as a right to invoice, or under the series guidance, we utilize an Estimate at Completion process to measure progress toward completion. We typically estimate progress towards completion based on cost incurred or direct labor incurred. As part of this process, we review information including, but not limited to, any outstanding key contract matters, progress towards completion and the related program schedule, identified risks and opportunities and the related changes in estimates of revenue and costs. The risks and opportunities include judgments about the ability and cost to achieve the contract milestones and other technical contract requirements. We make assumptions and estimates regarding labor productivity and availability, the complexity of the work to be performed, the availability of materials, the length of time to complete the performance obligation, execution by our subcontractors, the availability and timing of funding from our customer and overhead cost rates, among other variables. A significant change in one or more of these estimates could affect the timing in which we recognize revenue on our contracts. For the three months ended March 31, 2019, the aggregate impact of adjustments in contract estimates increased our revenue by $3.2 million. 
3.Revenue from Contracts with CustomersThe decrease in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to reduced bid and proposal spending and amortization of acquisition intangibles offset by increased spending on infrastructure. We expect general and administrative expenses as a percent of revenue to increase during the remainder of 2019 due to the acquisition of Kforce Government Solutions (KGS) and increased bid and proposal spending.
The increase in cost of services was primarily due to increases in revenue. As a percentage of revenue, direct labor costs were 48% for both the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018. As a percentage of revenues, other direct costs, which include subcontractors and third party equipment and materials used in the performance of our contracts, was 38% for the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to 37% for the same period in 2018. 
Our operating cash flow is primarily affected by our ability to invoice and collect from our customers in a timely manner, our management of vendor payments and the overall profitability of our contracts. We bill most of our customers monthly after services are rendered. Our accounts receivable days sales outstanding were 70 and 69 for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, our net cash from (used in) operating activities was $47.3 million and $(18.0) million, respectively. The increase in net cash flows from operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2019 when compared to the same period in 2018 was primarily due to the timing of receivables collection.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019, our net cash flow from financing activities was $78.1 million, which was primarily due to net borrowings under revolving credit facility and dividend payments. The net increase in borrowings for the three months ended March 31, 2019 is due to funding requirements to acquire Kforce Government Solutions on April 1, 2019. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, our net cash flow from financing activities were $27.9 million, which were primarily due to net borrowings under our revolving credit facility and exercise of stock options partially offset by dividend payments.
The primary driver of our increase in revenues relates to revenue from new contract awards and growth on certain existing contracts, which were offset by contracts and tasks that ended and reduced scope of work on some contracts.
our principal, maintaining the liquidity of our investments, maximizing the yield on our investments and investing our cash to the fullest extent possible. Our investment policy provides that no investment security can have a final maturity that exceeds six months and that the weighted average maturity of the portfolio cannot exceed 60 days. Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, amounts due from banks and short-term investments with maturity dates of three months or less at the date of purchase.
In the ordinary course of business, we use letters of credit issued to satisfy certain contractual terms with our customers. As of March 31, 2019, $7.7 million in letters of credit were issued but undrawn. We have an outstanding performance bond in connection with a contract between ManTech MENA, LLC and Jadwalean International Operations and Management Company to fulfill technical support requirements for the Royal Saudi Air Force. This performance bond is guaranteed by a letter of credit in the amount of $14 thousand. Item 6.Exhibits