 Item 2.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  









   ·    Sales adjusted for certain items that impact the year-over-year analysis, which includes the impact of certain acquisitions by adjusting Avnet’s prior periods to include the sales of acquired businesses, as if the acquisitions had occurred at the beginning of the earliest period presented. Sales taking into account these adjustments are referred to as “organic sales.” 









 Management believes that providing this additional information is useful to readers to better assess and understand operating performance, especially when comparing results with prior periods or forecasting performance for future periods, primarily because management typically monitors the business both including and excluding these adjustments to GAAP results. Management also uses these non-GAAP measures to establish operational goals and, in many cases, for measuring performance for compensation purposes. However, any analysis of results on a non-GAAP basis should be used as a complement to, and in conjunction with, results presented in accordance with GAAP.  





 Table of Contents  



 OVERVIEW  



 Organization  



 Avnet, Inc., founded in 1921 and incorporated in New York in 1955, together with its consolidated subsidiaries (the “Company” or “Avnet”), is a global value-added distributor of electronic components. Avnet creates a vital link in the technology supply chain that connects the world’s leading electronic component manufacturers with a global customer base primarily comprised of original equipment manufacturers, electronic manufacturing services providers and original design manufacturers. Avnet distributes electronic components, as received from its suppliers or through a customized integrated solution, and offers assembly and other value-added services.  





 Results of Operations  



 Executive Summary  



 Sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 were $4.52 billion, an increase of 5.8% from sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2017 of $4.27 billion. The increase in sales was due to the Company’s acquisition of PF and increased sales EC’s EMEA and Asia regions, offset by sales declines in the Americas region. Sales on an organic basis in constant currency increased year over year by 1.9% with both EC and PF contributing to the increase.   



 Gross profit margin for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 remained relatively flat compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2017. EC gross profit margin decreased year over year primarily due to supplier program changes, and a higher percentage of sales coming from the lower-margin Asia region. PF gross profit margin decreased year over year primarily driven by changes in customer mix.  



 Avnet operating income margin was 1.9% in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 as compared with 2.9% in the second quarter of fiscal 2017. Both periods included amortization and restructuring, integration and other expenses. Excluding these expenses from both periods, adjusted operating income margin was 3.2% in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 as compared to 3.8% in the second quarter of fiscal 2017. EC operating income margin decreased 104 basis points year over year to 3.1% primarily due to the decline in gross profit margin. PF operating income margin increased 105 basis points year over year to 10.0% due primarily to revenue growth and the realization of post-acquisition cost synergies.   





 Table of Contents  



 Sales  



 The following tables present the reconciliation of reported sales to organic sales for the second quarters and first six months of fiscal 2017.   







   (1)    Includes PF acquired on October 17, 2016, which has operations in each Avnet region. 



 Second quarter sales of $4.52 billion increased 5.8% over the prior year second quarter sales of $4.27 billion primarily due to the acquisition of PF and increased sales in EC’s EMEA and Asia regions. On a regional basis, increased sales in the EC’s EMEA and Asia regions driven by strong demand across many product verticals were offset by a decrease in sales in the Americas region due primarily to supplier channel and program changes.  



 Organic sales in constant currency increased 1.9% over the prior year second quarter with both operating groups contributing to this increase driven by overall market demand, partially offset by the impact of supplier program changes.   



 Sales for the first six months of fiscal 2018 were $9.18 billion, an increase of 9.4% as compared to sales of $8.39 billion for the first six months of fiscal 2017 primarily due to the acquisition of PF. Organic sales for the first six months of 2018 increased $412.6 million over the first six months of fiscal 2017 organic sales primarily due to increases in EMEA and Asia, offset by declines in the Americas.   





 Table of Contents  



 Gross Profit and Gross Profit Margins  



 Gross profit for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 was $602.5 million, an increase of $16.3 million, or 2.8%, from the second quarter of fiscal 2017 gross profit of $586.2 million driven primarily by the acquisition of PF. Gross profit margin remained relatively flat with the year ago second quarter.   



 EC gross profit margin decreased year over year primarily due to supplier program changes and a sales mix shift to the lower-margin Asia region. Asia sales represented 42% of the total EC sales in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 as compared with 40% in the second quarter of fiscal 2017. PF gross profit margin decreased year over year primarily driven by customer mix.   



 Gross profit and gross profit margins were $1.22 billion and 13.2%, respectively, for the first six months of fiscal 2018 as compared with $1.11 billion and 13.2%, respectively, for the first six months of fiscal 2017. Decreases in EC’s gross profit margin due to supplier program changes were offset by increases in gross profit margin due to the acquisition of PF.  



 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses  









 Restructuring, Integration and Other Expenses  







 Table of Contents  



 The Company recorded restructuring, integration and other expenses of $36.8 million during the second quarter of fiscal 2018. The Company recorded $12.9 million of restructuring costs in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 in order to realize approximately $2.0 million in expected annualized operating cost savings once such restructuring actions initiated before the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2018 are completed. During the second quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company incurred integration costs of $8.2 million, accelerated depreciation of $16.9 million, other costs of $0.2 million and a reversal of $1.4 million for changes in estimates for costs associated with prior year restructuring actions. The after tax impact of restructuring, integration and other expenses were $27.8 million and $0.23 per share on a diluted basis.  



 During the first six months of fiscal 2018, the Company incurred restructuring costs of $34.2 million, integration costs of $16.4 million, accelerated depreciation of $33.3 million, other costs of $0.7 million and reversals of $1.4 million for changes in estimates for costs associated with prior year restructuring actions. The after tax impact of restructuring, integration and other expenses for the first six months of fiscal 2018 was $57.4 million and $0.47 per share on a diluted basis.  



 Comparatively, in the second quarter of fiscal 2017, restructuring, integration and other expenses from continuing operations were $30.4 million. The after tax impact of restructuring, integration, and other expenses was $23.0 million and $0.18 per share on a diluted basis.   



 In the first six months of fiscal 2017, restructuring, integration and other expenses from continuing operations was $59.9 million. The after tax impact of restructuring, integration and other expenses for the first six months of fiscal 2017 was $43.2 million and $0.34 per share on a diluted basis.  



 See Note 14 “Restructuring expenses” to the Company’s consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.   



 Operating Income  



 Operating income for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 was $87.0 million, a decrease of $37.2 million, or 30.0%, from the second quarter of fiscal 2017 operating income of $124.2 million. The year over year decrease in operating income was primarily driven by declines in the EC’s Americas and EMEA regions due primarily to supplier program changes, partially offset by an increase at PF. Adjusted operating income for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 was $145.7 million, a decrease of $18.8 million, or 11.4%, from the second quarter of fiscal 2017.  



  EC operating income margin decreased 104 basis points year over year to 3.1% due primarily to supplier program changes partially offset by cost reductions from restructuring actions. PF operating income margin increased 105 basis points year over year to 10.0% due primarily to sales growth and the realization of post-acquisition cost synergies.   



 Operating income for the first six months of fiscal 2018 was $157.0 million, or 1.7% of consolidated sales, as compared with operating income of $253.7 million, or 3.0% in the first six months of 2017 primarily driven by declines in EC partially offset by the acquisition of PF.   



 Interest Expense and Other Income (Expense), Net  



 Interest expense in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 was $25.6 million, a decrease of $1.1 million or 4.1%, as compared with interest expense of $26.7 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2017. Interest expense in the first six months of fiscal 2018 was $49.7 million, a decrease of $4.3 million or 7.9%, as compared with interest expense of $54.0 million in the first six months of fiscal 2017. The decrease in interest expense in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018 compared to the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2017 was primarily related to the impact of the Company’s repayment of its outstanding term loans and borrowings on its revolving credit facilities, which were used to help fund the PF acquisition.   





 Table of Contents  



 During the second quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company had $0.8 million of other income, net, as compared with $36.5 million of other expense, net, in the second quarter of fiscal 2017. During the first six months of fiscal 2017, the Company recognized $16.3 million of other income as compared with $50.2 million of other expenses in the first six months of fiscal 2017. In the first six months of fiscal 2018, the Company had foreign currency gains primarily due to the strengthening of the Euro compared to the U.S. Dollar and British Pound. In the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2017, the Company incurred additional financing and economic foreign currency hedging costs associated with the PF acquisition.   



 Income Tax Expense  



 The Company’s effective tax rate on its income before income taxes from continuing operations was 8.6% in the second quarter of fiscal 2018. During the second quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company’s effective tax rate was favorably impacted primarily by the mix of income in lower tax jurisdictions, partially offset by the tax expense created from remeasuring net deferred tax assets as a result of applying the requirements of the Act.   



 During the second quarter of fiscal 2017, the Company’s effective tax rate of 46.7% was unfavorably impacted primarily by (i) net increases to valuation allowances against deferred tax assets created primarily from acquisition related expenses that were deemed unrealizable and (ii) the impact of non-deductible acquisition related expenses, partially offset by (iii) the mix of income in lower tax jurisdictions.  



 For the first six months of fiscal 2018 the Company’s effective tax rate on its income before income taxes from continuing operations was 7.0%. The effective tax rate for the first six months of fiscal 2018 was favorably impacted primarily by (i) the mix of income in lower tax jurisdictions and (ii) the release of unrecognized tax benefit reserves primarily due to the negotiation of a favorable outcome in a foreign jurisdiction, partially offset by the (iii) tax expense created from remeasuring net deferred tax assets as a result of applying the requirements of the Act.  



 During the first six months of fiscal 2017, the Company’s effective tax rate of 33% was unfavorably impacted primarily by (i) net increases to valuation allowances against deferred tax assets that were deemed unrealizable and (ii) the impact of non-deductible acquisition related expenses, partially offset by (iii) the mix of income in lower tax jurisdictions.  



 See Note 8 “Income taxes” to the Company’s consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.  



 Income from Discontinued Operations  



 Loss from discontinued operations was $10.1 million and $9.9 million in the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2018, respectively, primarily as a result of settlement losses associated with the Company’s pension plan due to former TS business employees requesting and receiving distributions from the Company’s pension plan during fiscal 2018. Refer to Note 9, “Pension Plan,” for further information on the pension settlement losses.  



 Income from discontinued operations was $70.8 million and $71.9 million in the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2017, respectively due to the operating results of the TS business, which was sold in the third quarter of fiscal 2017.  



 See Note 3, “Discontinued operations” to the Company’s consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information and detail on the financial results of discontinued operations.  



 Net Income   







 Table of Contents  





 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  



 Cash Flow  



 Cash Flow from Operating Activities  





 Cash used for operating activities of discontinued operations was $63.1 million in the first six months of fiscal 2017 as the sale of the TS business was completed in the third quarter of fiscal 2017.   



 Cash Flow from Financing Activities  



 During the first six months of fiscal 2018, the Company received net proceeds of $78.0 million under the Company’s accounts receivable securitization program. During the first six months of fiscal 2018, the Company repaid $27.4 million from borrowings of various bank credit facilities and $100.0 million under the Company’s Credit Facility. During the first six months of fiscal 2018, the Company paid dividends on common stock of $43.6 million and repurchased $135.5 million of common stock.  



 During the first six months of fiscal 2017, the Company received net proceeds of $296.4 million as a result of the issuance of $300.0 million of 3.75% Notes due December 2021. Additionally, the Company received net proceeds of $530.8 million and $771.2 million from borrowings under the Term Loan and from the Company’s Credit Facility, respectively. During the first six months of fiscal 2017, the Company repaid $378.6 million of notes and acquired debt and made net repayments of $265.0 million under the Company’s accounts receivable securitization program. During the first six months of fiscal 2017, the Company repaid $19.0 million from borrowings of various bank credit facilities and paid dividends on common stock of $43.4 million.  



 Cash Flow from Investing Activities  



 During the first six months of fiscal 2018, the Company used $67.4 million for capital expenditures primarily related to information system development costs, computer hardware and software purchases and facilities costs compared to $70.4 million for capital expenditures in the first six months of fiscal 2017. During the first six months of fiscal 2018, the Company used $14.7 million of cash for acquisitions, which is net of the cash acquired compared to $798.4 million of cash for acquisitions, which is net of the cash acquired in the first six months of fiscal 2017.   





 Table of Contents  



 During the first six months of fiscal 2018, the Company generated $112.7 million of cash from investing activities – discontinued operations, substantially all driven by the sale of marketable securities obtained through the sale of the TS business.  



 Contractual Obligations  



 For a detailed description of the Company’s long-term debt and lease commitments for the next five years and thereafter, see Long-Term Contractual Obligations appearing in Item 7 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 1, 2017. With the exception of the Company’s debt transactions discussed herein, there are no material changes to this information outside of normal borrowings and repayments of long-term debt and operating lease payments. The Company does not currently have any material non-cancellable commitments for capital expenditures or inventory purchases.  



 Financing Transactions  



 See Note 5, “Debt” to the Company’s consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on financing transactions including the Credit Facility, the Program, and other outstanding debt as of December 30, 2017. The Company was in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Facility and the Program as of December 30, 2017.  



 The Company has various lines of credit and other forms of bank debt in the U.S. and various foreign locations to fund the short-term working capital, foreign exchange, overdraft and letter of credit needs of its wholly owned subsidiaries. Avnet generally guarantees its subsidiaries’ obligations under such debt facilities. Outstanding borrowings under such forms of debt at the end of second quarter of fiscal 2018 was $0.9 million.  



 Liquidity  



 The Company held cash and cash equivalents of $589.5 million as of December 30, 2017, of which $568.7 million was held outside the United States. As of July 1, 2017, the Company held cash and cash equivalents of $836.4 million, of which $619.5 million was held outside of the United States.  



 As of the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company had a combined total borrowing capacity of $1.65 billion under the Credit Facility and the Program. There were no borrowings outstanding and $2.0 million in letters of credit issued under the Credit Facility and $220.0 million in borrowings outstanding under the Program, resulting in approximately $1.37 billion of total availability as of December 30, 2017. Availability under the Program is subject to the Company having sufficient eligible trade accounts receivable to support desired borrowings. The Company currently expects to utilize availability under credit facilities to support working capital and other general corporate purposes to the extent such incremental borrowings do not impact the Company’s investment grade credit rating. During the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018, the Company had an average daily balance outstanding of approximately $0.1 million and $5.3 million, respectively, under the Credit Facility and approximately $225.0 million and $195.0 million, respectively, under the Program. During the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2017, the Company had an average daily balance outstanding of approximately $818.6 million and $635.2 million, respectively, under the Credit Facility and approximately $622.0 million and $671.0 million, respectively, under the Program.  



 During periods of weakening demand in the electronic components industry, the Company typically generates cash from operating activities. Conversely, the Company is more likely to use operating cash flows for working capital requirements during periods of higher growth. The Company used $141.4 million in cash flows from operating activities over the trailing four fiscal quarters ended December 30, 2017 for continuing operations.   





 Table of Contents  



 Liquidity is subject to many factors, such as normal business operations as well as general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, and regulatory factors that are beyond the Company’s control. To the extent the cash balances held in foreign locations cannot be remitted back to the U.S. in a tax efficient manner, those cash balances are generally used for ongoing working capital, capital expenditure needs and to support acquisitions, and are currently expected to be permanently reinvested outside the United States. The Company is still evaluating the impact of repatriating such foreign cash as a result of changes in U.S. tax law from the Act, which was signed into law on December 22, 2017. In addition, local government regulations may restrict the Company’s ability to move funds among various locations under certain circumstances. Management does not believe such restrictions would limit the Company’s ability to pursue its intended business strategy. Management believes that Avnet’s available borrowing capacity, its current cash on hand including the remaining proceeds and marketable securities from the sale of the TS business and the Company’s expected ability to generate operating cash flows in the future will be sufficient to meet its future liquidity needs. The Company also may issue debt or equity securities in the future and management believes the Company will have adequate access to the capital markets, if needed.  



 The Company expects to make material income tax payments on its unremitted foreign earnings as a result of the impact of the Act. The Act requires the Company to pay a one-time transition tax on unremitted foreign earnings (the “transition tax”), which the Company expects to make a policy decision to pay over an eight year period. The Company is still gathering the necessary information to make reasonable estimates for the amount of the transition tax, but the Company expects the transition tax owed will be material due to the Company’s approximately $3.3 billion of unremitted foreign earnings as of July 1, 2017.   



 Historically the Company has made, and expects to continue to make, strategic investments through acquisition activity to the extent the investments strengthen Avnet’s competitive position, further its business strategies and meet management’s return on capital thresholds. The Company also expects to make capital expenditures, including expenditures over the next two fiscal years to implement a global ERP system. Additionally, as the Company integrates PF and restructures to transform Avnet into an electronic components focused business, the Company expects to use cash for restructuring, integration and other expenses.  



 In addition to continuing to make investments in acquisitions, as of December 30, 2017, the Company may repurchase up to an aggregate of $459.6 million of shares of the Company’s common stock through a $1.95 billion share repurchase program approved by the Board of Directors. The Company may repurchase stock from time to time at the discretion of management, subject to strategic considerations, market conditions and other factors. The Company may terminate or limit the share repurchase program at any time without prior notice. The timing and actual number of shares repurchased will depend on a variety of factors such as share price, corporate and regulatory requirements, and prevailing market conditions. Additionally, the Company currently expects to pay quarterly cash dividends on shares of its common stock, subject to approval of the Board of Directors. During the second quarter of fiscal 2018, the Board of Directors approved a dividend of $0.18 per share, which resulted in $21.6 million of dividend payments during the quarter.   



 Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements  



 See Note 1, “Basis of presentation and new accounting pronouncements” to the Company’s consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a description of recently issued accounting pronouncements.  



 Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  



 The Company’s Board of Directors has approved the repurchase of up to $1.95 billion of the Company’s common stock under the Company’s share repurchase program, which includes an increase of $200 million approved in November 2017. The following table includes the Company’s monthly purchases of the Company’s common stock during the second quarter of fiscal 2018, under the share repurchase program, which is part of a publicly announced plan.  







 Table of Contents  



 Item 6.Exhibits  











 Table of Contents  



 SIGNATURE  



 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  







