 Item 3.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
 The Company seeks to reduce earnings and cash flow volatility associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates by entering into financial arrangements that are intended to provide an economic hedge against all or a portion of the risks associated with such volatility.
The Company continues to have exposure to such risks to the extent they are not economically hedged.
 Table of Contents
 See Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 1, 2017, for further discussion of market risks associated with foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
Avnet’s exposure to such risks has not changed materially since July 1, 2017, as the Company continues to economically hedge the majority of its foreign currency exchange exposures.
Thus, any increase or decrease in fair value of the Company’s forward foreign currency exchange contracts is generally offset by an opposite effect on the related hedged position.
For interest rate risk, the Company continues to maintain a combination of fixed and variable rate debt to mitigate the exposure to fluctuation in market interest rates.
The Company’s exposure to market price risk related to marketable securities is mitigated through the purchase of a derivative financial instrument that economically fixes the value of the marketable securities.
 See Liquidity and Capital Resources — Financing Transactions appearing in Item 2 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion of the Company’s financing transactions and capital structure.
As of December 30, 2017, 86% of the Company’s debt bears interest at a fixed rate and 14% of the Company’s debt bears interest at variable rates.
Therefore, a hypothetical 1.0% (100 basis points) increase in interest rates would result in a $0.6 million decrease in income from continuing operations before income taxes in the Company’s consolidated statement of operations for the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
