Item 1A.Risk Factors  

 This Quarterly Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (“Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Exchange Act with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of the Company.
You can find many of these statements by looking for words like “believes,” “plans,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “should,” “will,” “may,” “estimates” or similar expressions in this Quarterly Report or in documents incorporated by reference in this Quarterly Report.
These forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties.
You should understand that the following important factors, in addition to those discussed elsewhere in this Quarterly Report and in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018, could affect the Company’s future results of operations, and could cause those results or other outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements:  

   ·    competitive pressures among distributors of electronic components; 

   ·    an industry down-cycle in semiconductors; 

   ·    relationships with key suppliers and allocations of products by suppliers; 

   ·    risks relating to the Company’s international sales and operations, including risks relating to the ability to repatriate cash, foreign currency fluctuations, duties and taxes, and compliance with international and U.S. laws; 

   ·    risks relating to acquisitions, divestitures and investments; 

   ·    adverse effects on the Company’s supply chain, shipping costs, third-party service providers, customers and suppliers, including as a result of issues caused by natural and weather-related disasters; 


 Table of Contents  

   ·    risks related to cyber-attacks and the Company’s information systems, including related to current or future implementations; 

   ·    general economic and business conditions (domestic, foreign and global) affecting the Company’s operations and financial performance and, indirectly, the Company’s credit ratings, debt covenant compliance, and liquidity and access to financing;  


   ·    legislative or regulatory changes affecting the Company’s businesses.
Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which that statement is made.
Except as required by law, the Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date on which the statement is made.
The discussion of the Company’s business and operations should be read together with the risk factors contained in Item 1A of its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018, which describe various risks and uncertainties to which the Company is or may become subject.
These risks and uncertainties have the potential to affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies or prospects in a material and adverse manner.
As of December 29, 2018, there have been no material changes to the risk factors set forth in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018.
Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  

 The Company’s Board of Directors has approved the repurchase of up to $2.45 billion of the Company’s common stock under the Company’s share repurchase program.
The following table includes the Company’s monthly purchases of the Company’s common stock during the second quarter of fiscal 2019, under the share repurchase program, which is part of a publicly announced plan.
Table of Contents  

 Item 6.Exhibits  





 Table of Contents  

 SIGNATURE  

 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
