Item 1. Financial Statements (Unaudited)
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations
See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements 
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income
See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets
See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders' Equity
 See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements 
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements
Basis of Presentation
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Except for the change in certain policies upon adoption of the accounting standards described below, there have been no material changes to the Company's significant accounting policies, compared to the accounting policies described in Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies, in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of the Form 10-K.
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
The adoption of the standard had no impact on the Company's Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows or debt-covenant compliance under its current agreements. See Note 13, Commitment and Contingencies, for additional disclosures required upon adopting the standard.
Leases
The Company determines if an arrangement is a lease at inception. The Company evaluates classification of leases at commencement and, as necessary, at modification. As of March 31, 2019, the Company did not have any finance leases. Operating leases are included in operating lease ROU assets, other accrued liabilities, and operating lease liabilities on the Company's Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. ROU assets represent the Company's right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent its obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease. 
Operating lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term. The operating lease ROU asset also includes any lease payments made prior to lease commencement and excludes lease incentives. Variable lease payments not dependent on an index or a rate, are expensed as incurred and are not included within the ROU asset and lease liability calculation. Variable lease payments primarily include reimbursements of costs incurred by lessors for common area maintenance and utilities. The Company's lease terms are the noncancelable period including any rent-free periods provided by the lessor and include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that it will exercise that option. At lease inception, and in subsequent periods as necessary, the Company estimates the lease term based on its assessment of extension and termination options that are reasonably certain to be exercised. Lease costs are recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The Company does not separate non-lease components from lease components for all underlying classes of assets. In addition, the Company does not recognize ROU assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases, which have a lease term of twelve months or less and do not include an option to purchase the underlying asset that the Company is reasonably certain to exercise. Lease cost for short-term leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
Note 3. Cash Equivalents and Investments 
Investments in Available-for-Sale Debt Securities
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
For available-for-sale debt securities that have unrealized losses, the Company assesses impairment by evaluating various factors, including whether (i) it has the intention to sell any of these investments and (ii) whether it is more likely than not that it will be required to sell any of these investments before recovery of the entire amortized cost basis. As of March 31, 2019, the Company had 382 investments in unrealized loss positions. The gross unrealized losses related to these investments were primarily due to changes in market interest rates. The Company anticipates that it will recover the entire amortized cost basis of such available-for-sale debt securities and has determined that no other-than-temporary impairments associated with credit losses were required to be recognized during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018, there were no material gross realized gains or losses from available-for-sale debt securities.
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
Investments in Equity Securities
For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018, there were no material unrealized gains or losses recognized for equity investments.
Restricted Cash and Investments
As of March 31, 2019, the carrying value of restricted cash and investments was $55.3 million, of which $28.8 million was included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and $26.5 million was included in other long-term assets on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
Note 4. Fair Value Measurements
Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
All of the Company's privately-held debt and redeemable preferred stock securities are classified as Level 3 assets due to the lack of observable inputs to determine fair value. The Company estimates the fair value of its privately-held debt and redeemable preferred stock securities on a recurring basis using an analysis of the financial condition and near-term prospects of the investee, including recent financing activities and the investee's capital structure. During the three months ended March 31, 2019, there were no significant activities related to privately-held debt and redeemable preferred stock securities. 
Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis
Certain of the Company's assets, including intangible assets and goodwill, are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis, when they are deemed to be other-than temporarily impaired. There were no impairment charges recognized during the three months ended March 31, 2019.
Equity investments without readily determinable fair value are measured at fair value, when they are deemed to be impaired or when there is an adjustment from observable price changes. For the three months ended March 31, 2019, there were no material impairment charges or adjustments resulting from observable price changes for equity investments without readily determinable fair value. 
As of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the Company had no liabilities required to be measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis.
Assets and Liabilities Not Measured at Fair Value
The carrying amounts of the Company's accounts receivable, accounts payable, and other accrued liabilities approximate fair value due to their short maturities. As of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the estimated fair value of the Company's total outstanding debt in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets was $1,856.2 million and $2,158.7 million, respectively, based on observable market inputs (Level 2). The carrying value of the promissory note issued to the Company in connection with the previously completed sale of Junos Pulse, along with the accumulated interest paid in kind, of $69.0 million approximates its fair value as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018. Notes receivable are generally classified as Level 3 asset due to the lack of observable inputs to determine fair value. The carrying value of a contract manufacturer deposit of $47.6 million, reported within other long-term assets, in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets approximates its fair value as of March 31, 2019. See Note 6, Other Financial Information, for further information on the contract manufacturer deposit. 
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
The Company uses derivatives to partially offset its market exposure to fluctuations in certain foreign currencies and does not enter into derivatives for speculative or trading purposes. 
Cash Flow Hedges
The Company uses foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the Company's planned cost of revenues and operating expenses denominated in foreign currencies. These derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges. Execution of cash flow hedge derivatives typically occurs every month with maturities of eighteen months or less. As of March 31, 2019, an estimated $2.8 million of unrealized net gain within accumulated other comprehensive loss is expected to be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months.
The Company recognized an unrealized gain of $3.4 million and $13.4 million in accumulated other comprehensive income for the effective portion of its derivative instruments for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018, respectively. The Company reclassified a loss of $1.0 million and a gain of $5.6 million out of accumulated other comprehensive income to cost of revenues and operating expenses in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018, respectively.
See Note 4, Fair Value Measurements, for the fair values of the Company's derivative instruments in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Non-Designated Derivatives 
The Company also uses foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate variability in gains and losses generated from the remeasurement of certain monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. These foreign exchange forward contracts typically have maturities of approximately one to three months. The outstanding non-designated derivative instruments are carried at fair value. Changes in the fair value of these derivatives recorded in other expense, net within the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations were not material during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018.
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
Note 6. Other Financial Information
Inventory 
Deposit
The Company has a non-interest bearing deposit balance of $47.6 million, net of an unamortized discount balance of $2.3 million, to a contract manufacturer per the terms of the agreement. The discount is calculated based on an imputed interest rate of 4.8% at March 31, 2019. The imputed interest will be amortized over the term of the deposit to interest income along with a corresponding charge to cost of revenues. The deposit is due on demand in the second quarter of 2020 and has been classified as other long-term assets on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Warranties 
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
Deferred Revenue
Revenue
See Note 10, Segments, for disaggregated revenue by product and service, customer vertical, and geographic region.
Deferred Commissions
Deferred commissions were $26.1 million as of March 31, 2019. For the three months ended March 31, 2019, amortization expense for the deferred commissions was $34.9 million. There were no impairment charges recognized during the three months ended March 31, 2019.
Other Income (Expense), Net 
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
Note 7. Restructuring Charges 
During the first quarter of 2019, the Company initiated a restructuring plan (the "2019 Restructuring Plan") designed to realign its workforce with the Company's sales strategy, improve productivity, and enhance cost efficiencies. The 2019 Restructuring Plan consists of workforce reductions and facility closures. 
In connection with the 2019 Restructuring Plan, the Company recorded $15.1 million of severance costs and $0.2 million of facility consolidations, respectively, to restructuring charges in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations during the three months ended March 31, 2019
The Company expects to pay the remaining restructuring liabilities by the end of the third quarter of 2019.
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
Cash Dividends on Shares of Common Stock
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, the Company declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.19 per share of common stock on January 29, 2019, which was paid on March 22, 2019 to stockholders of record on March 1, 2019. Any future dividends, and the establishment of record and payment dates, are subject to approval by the Board of Directors (the “Board”) of Juniper or an authorized committee thereof. See Note 14, Subsequent Event, for discussion of the Company's dividend declaration subsequent to March 31, 2019. 
Stock Repurchase Activities 
In January 2018, the Board approved a $2.0 billion share repurchase program ("2018 Stock Repurchase Program"). As part of the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program, in February 2018, the Company entered into an ASR to repurchase $750.0 million of its common stock. The Company made an up-front payment of $750.0 million pursuant to the ASR to repurchase its common stock. The aggregate number of shares ultimately repurchased of 29.3 million shares of common stock was determined based on a volume weighted average repurchase price, less an agreed upon discount, of $25.62 per share.
As of March 31, 2019, there were $1.3 billion of authorized funds remaining under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program. 
Future share repurchases under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program will be subject to a review of the circumstances at that time and will be made from time to time in private transactions or open market purchases as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements. The Company's 2018 Stock Repurchase Program may be discontinued at any time.
In addition to repurchases under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program, the Company also repurchases common stock from certain employees in connection with the net issuance of shares to satisfy applicable tax withholding requirements upon the vesting of certain stock awards issued to such employees. Repurchases associated with tax withholdings were not material during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018.
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss, Net of Tax
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
Note 9. Employee Benefit Plans
Equity Incentive Plans
The Company has stock-based compensation plans pursuant to which it has granted stock options, restricted stock units (“RSUs”), and performance share awards (“PSAs”). The Company also maintains its 2008 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the “ESPP”) for all eligible employees. As of March 31, 2019, 11.4 million and 7.4 million shares were available for future issuance under the Company's 2015 Equity Incentive Plan (the "2015 Plan") and the ESPP, respectively. In connection with past acquisitions, the Company also assumed or substituted stock options, RSUs, RSAs, and PSAs.
Restricted Stock Unit and Performance Share Award Activities
Employee Stock Purchase Plan 
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
On November 6, 2017, the Company’s Compensation Committee amended and restated the ESPP to provide that the offering period that began on February 1, 2018 would be for 24 months with four 6-month purchase periods. A new 24-month offering period will commence every six months thereafter. The purchase price for the Company’s common stock under the ESPP is 85% of the lower of the fair market value of the shares at (1) the beginning of the applicable offering period or (2) the end of each 6-month purchase period during such offering period. The ESPP will continue in effect until February 25, 2028, unless terminated earlier under the provisions of the ESPP. 
Share-Based Compensation Expense
As of March 31, 2019, the total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested share-based awards was $369.5 million to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.9 years. 
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
The Company operates in one reportable segment. The Company's chief executive officer, who is the chief operating decision maker, reviews financial information presented on a consolidated basis for purposes of allocating resources and evaluating financial performance, accompanied by disaggregated information about net revenues by product and service, customer vertical, and geographic region as presented below.
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
Note 11. Income Taxes
The effective tax rate during the three months ended March 31, 2018 differs from the federal statutory rate of 21% primarily due to the net impact of previously unrecognized tax benefits. 
As of March 31, 2019, the total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits was $181.6 million, of which $178.2 million, if recognized, would affect the effective tax rate.
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
Note 12. Net Income per Share
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
Note 13. Commitments and Contingencies
Except for the items below, there have been no material changes to the Company's commitments compared to the commitments described in Note 16, Commitments and Contingencies, in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of the Form 10-K. 
Leases
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and Suppliers 
In order to reduce manufacturing lead times and in the interest of having access to adequate component supply, the Company enters into agreements with contract manufacturers and certain suppliers to procure inventory based on the Company's requirements. A significant portion of the Company's purchase commitments arising from these agreements consists of firm and non-cancelable commitments. These purchase commitments totaled $632.4 million as of March 31, 2019. 
The Company establishes a liability in connection with purchase commitments related to quantities in excess of its demand forecasts or obsolete materials charges for components purchased by the contract manufacturers based on the Company’s demand forecast or customer orders. As of March 31, 2019, the Company had accrued $32.8 million based on its estimate of such charges.
Indebtedness
In February 2019, the Company paid the aggregate principal amount of $350.0 million on its 3.125% senior notes upon maturity.
Investigations
The Company previously disclosed that it has been the subject of investigations by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and the U.S. Department of Justice ("DOJ") into possible violations by the Company of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. In cooperation with these investigations, the Company and the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, with the assistance of outside counsel and other independent advisors, conducted a thorough internal investigation. As a result of its internal investigation, the Company made significant improvements in its internal controls and carried out a number of disciplinary actions. In the fourth quarter of 2017, the DOJ notified the Company that the DOJ has closed its investigation related to these matters without taking any action against the Company. The Company is continuing to fully cooperate with the SEC’s ongoing investigation, and based on the Company’s recent communications with the Staff of the SEC, the Company believes that it is likely that the Staff of the SEC will seek to bring an enforcement action against the Company. The Company believes it is probable that it could incur a loss and has established an estimated legal reserve of $12.0 million related to the ongoing SEC investigation; however, as discussions are continuing, there can be no assurance as to the timing or the terms of any final resolution of this matter.
Other Litigations and Investigations
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
Note 14. Subsequent Event
Mist Acquisition
On April 1, 2019, the Company completed the acquisition of Mist Systems, Inc. (“Mist”), a software company that provides cloud-managed wireless networks powered by artificial intelligence ("AI") for approximately $365.0 million in cash consideration, subject to adjustments for cash on hand, up to a certain limit, indebtedness, and certain other closing adjustments. A portion of the consideration includes certain share-based awards attributable to services prior to the acquisition.
Credit Facility
In April 2019, the Company entered into a new credit agreement with certain institutional lenders that provides for a five-year $500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility (the "Revolving Credit Facility"), with an option to increase the Revolving Credit Facility by up to an additional $200.0 million, subject to the lenders' approval. The Revolving Credit Facility will terminate in April 2024, subject to two one-year maturity extension options, on the terms and conditions set forth in the Revolving Credit Facility.
Dividend Declaration
On April 25, 2019, the Company announced that the Board declared a cash dividend of $0.19 per share of common stock to be paid on June 24, 2019 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on June 3, 2019.
Stock Repurchase Activities
The Board also authorized the Company to enter into an ASR for an amount up to $300.0 million under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program.
On April 29, 2019, the Company entered into an ASR with a financial institution, to repurchase an aggregate of approximately $300.0 million of the Company’s outstanding common stock. The Company made an up-front payment of $300.0 million pursuant to the ASR and received and retired an initial 8.6 million shares of the Company’s common stock for an aggregate price of $240.0 million based on the market value of the Company’s common stock on the date of the transaction. The Company has an aggregate of $1.0 billion of authorized funds remaining under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program, as of the filing of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Future share repurchases under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program will be subject to a review of the circumstances at that time and will be made from time to time in private transactions or open market purchases as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements. The Company's 2018 Stock Repurchase Program may be discontinued at any time.
Restructuring
In April 2019, the Company amended the 2019 Restructuring Plan to implement certain additional organizational changes resulting in a realignment of the Company's workforce. As a result, the Company expects to record severance charges of approximately $6.0 million to $7.5 million related to headcount reductions in the second quarter of 2019.
Item 1. Legal Proceedings
The information set forth under the “Legal Proceedings” section in Note 13, Commitments and Contingencies, in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Report, is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 1A. Risk Factors
•unpredictable ordering patterns and limited or reduced visibility into our customers’ spending plans and associated revenue; 
•changes in customer mix; 
•changes in the demand for our products and services;
•changes in the mix of products and services sold; 
•changes in the mix of geographies in which our products and services are sold; 
•changing market and economic conditions; 
•current and potential customer, partner and supplier consolidation and concentration; 
•price and product competition; 
•long sales, qualification and implementation cycles; 
•success in new and evolving markets and emerging technologies;
•ability of our customers, channel partners, contract manufacturers and suppliers to purchase, market, sell, manufacture or supply our products (or components of our products) and services;
•financial stability of our customers, including the solvency of private sector customers and statutory authority for government customers to purchase goods and services;
•our ability to achieve targeted cost reductions;
•changes in the amount and frequency of share repurchases or dividends; 
•seasonality. 
We expect our gross margins and operating margins to vary over time.
Competition is intense in the markets that we serve. The routing and switching markets have historically been dominated by Cisco, with competition coming from other companies such as Nokia Corporation, Arista, HPE, and Huawei. In the security market, we face intense competition from Cisco and Palo Alto Networks, as well as companies such as Check Point, and Fortinet. Further, a number of other small public and private companies have products or have announced plans for new products to address the same challenges and markets that our products address.
The introduction of new software products and services is part of our intended strategy to expand our software business, and certain software revenues may be recognized periodically over the term of the relevant use period or subscription period. As a result, certain software, subscription and support and maintenance revenue we report each fiscal quarter is the recognition of deferred revenue from contracts entered into during previous fiscal quarters. Consequently, a decline in such new or renewed contracts in any one fiscal quarter will not be fully or immediately reflected in revenue in that fiscal quarter but will negatively affect our revenue in future fiscal quarters. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in new or renewed sales of certain software products, subscriptions or support and maintenance is not reflected in full in our operating results until future periods. Also, it is difficult for us to rapidly increase such software or services revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from those software, subscription and support and maintenance contracts must be recognized over the applicable period.
A substantial portion of our business and revenues depends on the growth of secure IP infrastructure and customers that depend on the continued growth of IP services to deploy our products in their networks and IP infrastructures. As a result of changes in the economy, capital spending or the building of network capacity in excess of demand (all of which, have in the past, particularly affected telecommunications service providers), spending on IP infrastructure can vary, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, a number of our existing customers are evaluating the build-out of their next generation networks. During the decision-making period when our customers are determining the design of those networks and the selection of the software and equipment they will use in those networks, such customers may greatly 
reduce or suspend their spending on secure IP infrastructure. For example, in recent years, our switching and routing results were adversely affected by spending delays from our largest Cloud customers, who we believe are in the process of implementing a networking architectural shift. The duration of the delay is difficult to predict, in part because each Cloud customer will migrate their network architecture based on their own constraints. Such delays in purchases can make it more difficult to predict revenues from customers, can cause fluctuations in the level of spending by customers and, even where our products are ultimately selected, can have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.
•the possibility that our strategy could erode our revenue and gross margins;
•the impact on our financial results of longer periods of revenue recognition for certain types of software products
 and changes in tax treatment associated with software sales;
•the additional costs associated with regulatory compliance and changes we need to make to our distribution chain in connection with increased software sales;
We depend on independent contract manufacturers (each of which is a third-party manufacturer for numerous companies) to manufacture our products. Although we have contracts with our contract manufacturers, these contracts do not require them to manufacture our products on a long-term basis in any specific quantity or at any specific price. In addition, it is time-consuming and costly to qualify and implement additional contract manufacturer relationships. Therefore, if we fail to effectively manage our contract manufacturer relationships, which could include failing to provide accurate forecasts of our requirements, or if one or more of them experiences delays, disruptions, or quality control problems in their manufacturing operations, or if we had to change or add additional contract manufacturers or contract manufacturing sites, our ability to ship products to our customers could be delayed. We have experienced in the past and may experience in the future an increase in the expected time required to manufacture our products or ship products. Such delays could result in supply shortfalls that damage our ability to meet customer demand for those products and could cause our customers to purchase alternative products from our competitors. Also, the addition of manufacturing locations or contract manufacturers or the introduction of new products by us would increase the complexity of our supply chain management. Moreover, a significant portion of our manufacturing is performed in China and other foreign countries and is therefore subject to risks associated with doing business outside of the United States, including import tariffs or regional conflicts. For example, the United States recently imposed a tariff on networking products imported from China; this includes certain products that we import into and sell within the United States. If we cannot mitigate the impact of the tariffs, the increased cost could translate into higher prices for our customers, reduced customer demand or increased cost of goods sold. In addition, increased costs of production or delays in production caused by any relocation of contract manufacturing facilities could impact the global competitiveness of our products. Each of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
The development of alternate sources for components is time-consuming, difficult, and costly. In addition, the lead times associated with certain components are lengthy and preclude rapid changes in quantities and delivery schedules. Also, long-term supply and maintenance obligations to customers increase the duration for which specific components are required, which may further increase the risk of component shortages or the cost of carrying inventory. In the event of a component shortage or supply interruption from these suppliers, we may not be able to develop alternate or second sources in a timely manner. If we are unable to buy these components in quantities sufficient to meet our requirements on a timely basis, we will not be able to deliver products and services to our customers, which would seriously affect present and future sales, which would, in turn, adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.
In the ordinary course of business, we store sensitive data, including intellectual property, personal data, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners on our networks. In addition, we store sensitive data through cloud-based services that may be hosted by third parties and in data center infrastructure maintained by third parties. The secure maintenance of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. The growing cyber risk environment means that individuals, companies, and organizations of all sizes, including Juniper, have been and are increasingly subject to the threat of intrusions on their networks and systems by a wide range of actors, including but not limited to nation states, criminal enterprises, and terrorist organizations, on an ongoing and regular basis. Despite our security measures, and those of our third-party vendors, our information technology and infrastructure has experienced breaches and may be vulnerable in the future to breach or attacks by computer programmers, hackers or sophisticated nation-state and nation-state supported actors or breached due to employee error or wrongful conduct, malfeasance, or other disruptions. If any breach or attack compromises our networks, creates system disruptions or slowdowns or exploits security vulnerabilities of our products, the information stored on our networks or those of our customers could be accessed and modified, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen, and we may be subject to liability to our customers, suppliers, business partners and others, and suffer reputational and financial harm. In addition, hardware, components and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including "bugs", vulnerabilities and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of our networks or expose us or our products to cyber attacks. This can be true even for “legacy” products that have been determined to have reached an end of life engineering status but will continue to operate for a limited amount of time. Furthermore, third parties may attempt to exfiltrate data through the introduction into the Information and Communications Technology supply chain of malicious products and components that are designed to defeat or circumvent encryption and other cybersecurity measures, and if successful, such actions could diminish customer trust in our products, harm our business reputation, and adversely affect our business and financial condition. 
We rely on value-added and other resellers, as well as distribution partners, to sell our products, and disruptions to, or our failure to effectively develop and manage, our distribution channel and the processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products.
Our future success is highly dependent upon establishing and maintaining successful relationships with a variety of value-added and other reseller and distribution partners, including our worldwide strategic partners such as Ericsson, IBM, Dimension Data and NEC Corporation. The majority of our revenues are derived through value-added resellers and distributors, most of which also sell our competitors’ products, and some of which sell their own competing products. Our revenues depend in part on the performance of these partners. The loss of or reduction in sales to our resellers or distributors could materially reduce our revenues. Our competitors may in some cases be effective in leveraging their market share positions or in providing incentives to current or potential resellers and distributors to favor their products or to prevent or reduce sales of our products. If we fail to develop and maintain relationships with our partners, fail to develop new relationships with value-added resellers and distributors in new markets, fail to expand the number of distributors and resellers in existing markets, fail to manage, train or motivate existing value-added resellers and distributors effectively, determine that we cannot continue to do business with these partners for any reason or if these partners are not successful in their sales efforts, sales of our products may decrease, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations would suffer.
Further, in order to develop and expand our distribution channel, we must continue to offer attractive channel programs to potential partners and scale and improve our processes and procedures that support the channel. As a result, our programs, processes and procedures may become increasingly complex and inherently difficult to manage. We have previously entered into OEM agreements with partners pursuant to which they rebrand and resell our products as part of their product portfolios. These types of relationships are complex and require additional processes and procedures that may be challenging and costly to implement, maintain and manage. Our failure to successfully manage and develop our distribution channel and the programs, processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products. We also depend on our global channel partners to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements. To the extent that they fail to do so, that could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition.
Our ability to process orders and ship products in a timely manner is dependent in part on our business systems and performance of the systems and processes of third parties as well as the interfaces between our systems and the systems of such third parties. Dependence on outsourced information technology and other administrative functions may impair our ability to operate effectively.
Some of our business processes depend upon our IT systems, the systems and processes of third parties, and the interfaces between the two. For example, on December 31, 2018, we entered into a Master Services Agreement and certain Statements of Work with IBM pursuant to which we will outsource significant portions of our IT and other administrative functions following a transition 
period. These cloud providers, third party providers, and off-site facilities are vulnerable to damage, interruption or performance problems from earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, equipment failure, adverse events caused by operator error, cybersecurity attacks and similar events. In addition, because we lease off-site data center facilities, we cannot be assured that we will be able to expand our data center infrastructure to meet user demand in a timely manner, or on favorable economic terms. If we have issues receiving and processing data, this may delay our ability to provide products and services to our customers and damage our business. We also rely upon the performance of the systems and processes of our contract manufacturers to build and ship our products. If those systems and processes experience interruption or delay, our ability to build and ship our products in a timely manner may be harmed. Since IT is critical to our operations, any failure to perform on the part of our IT providers could impair our ability to operate effectively. In addition to the risks outlined above, problems with any of the third parties we rely on for our IT systems could result in lower revenue and unexecuted efficiencies, and impact our results of operations and our stock price. 
We have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions in order to enhance our business. For example, we acquired Mist Systems in 2019, HTBase in 2018 and Cyphort in 2017. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to, problems combining the purchased operations, technologies or products, unanticipated costs, liabilities, litigation, and diversion of management's attention from our core businesses, adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience, and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions, initial dependence on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively small supply partners, and the potential loss of key employees, customers, distributors, vendors and other business partners of the companies we acquire. There can be no assurance that we will be able to integrate successfully any businesses, products, technologies, or personnel that we might acquire. The integration of businesses that we may acquire is likely to be a complex, time-consuming, and expensive process and we may not realize the anticipated revenues or other benefits associated with our acquisitions. If we fail to successfully manage, operate or integrate any acquired business or if we are unable to efficiently operate as a combined organization utilizing common information and communication systems, operating procedures, financial controls, and human resources practices, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected.
We are subject to laws and regulations affecting the sale of our products in a number of areas. For example, some governments have regulations prohibiting government entities from purchasing security products that do not meet country-specific safety, conformance or security certification criteria or in-country test requirements. Other regulations that may negatively impact our business include local content or local manufacturing requirements most commonly applicable for government, state-owned enterprise or regulated industry procurements. These types of regulations are in effect or under consideration in several jurisdictions where we do business.
The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act includes disclosure requirements applicable to public companies regarding the use of “conflict minerals” mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries, which we refer to collectively as the DRC, and procedures regarding a manufacturer's efforts to prevent the sourcing of such “conflict minerals.” These minerals are present in our products. In addition, the European Union reached agreement in late 2016 on an EU-wide conflict 
minerals rule under which most EU importers of tin, tungsten, tantalum, gold and their ores will have to conduct due diligence to ensure the minerals do not originate from conflict zones and do not fund armed conflicts. Large manufacturers also will have to disclose how they plan to monitor their sources to comply with the rules. The regulation was adopted in 2017 with compliance required by 2021.
In addition, environmental laws and regulations relevant to electronic equipment manufacturing or operations, including laws and regulations governing the hazardous material content of our products and laws relating to the collection of and recycling of electrical and electronic equipment, may adversely impact our business and financial condition. These laws and regulations include, among others, the European Union, or EU, Restriction on the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances Directive, or RoHS. The EU RoHS and the similar laws of other jurisdictions limit the content of certain hazardous materials, such as lead, mercury, and cadmium, in electronic equipment, including our products. Currently, our products comply with the EU RoHS requirements. However, certain exemptions are scheduled to lapse. The lapse of any exemption, further changes to this or other laws, or passage of similar laws in the EU or other jurisdictions, would require us to cease selling non-compliant products and to reengineer our products to use components compatible with these regulations. This reengineering and component substitution could result in additional costs to us, disrupt our operations or logistics, and result in an adverse impact on our operating results. In addition, in validating the compliance of our products with applicable hazardous materials restrictions, we rely substantially on affirmations by our component suppliers as to the compliance of their products with respect to those same restrictions. Failure by our component suppliers to furnish accurate and timely information could subject us to penalties or liability for violation of such hazardous materials restrictions, interrupt our supply of products to the EU, and result in our customers refusing or being unable to purchase our products. Additionally, the EU and a number of other jurisdictions have adopted regulations requiring producers of electrical and electronic equipment to assume certain responsibilities for collecting, treating, recycling and disposing of products when they have reached the end of their useful life. Finally, the EU REACH regulations regulate the handling of certain chemical substances that may be used in our products.
In addition, as a contractor and subcontractor to U.S. government departments and agencies, we are subject to federal regulations pertaining to our IT systems. For instance, as a subcontractor to the U.S. Department of Defense, or DOD, the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement, or DFARS, required that our IT systems comply with the security and privacy controls described in National Institute of Standards and Technology Special Publication 800-171, or NIST SP 800-171. The DFARS also requires that we flow the security control requirement down to certain of our own subcontractors. Failure to comply with these requirements could result in a loss of federal government business, subject us to claims or other remedies for non-compliance and negatively impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations.
Governmental regulations and economic sanctions affecting the import or export of products generally or affecting products containing encryption capabilities, in particular, could negatively affect our revenues and operating results.
The United States and various foreign governments have imposed controls and restrictions on the export of, among other things, products that contain or use encryption technology. Most of our products contain or use encryption technology and, consequently, 
are subject to such controls, requirements and restrictions. Certain governments, like those of Russia and China, control importation and in-country use of encryption items and technology. The scope, nature and severity of such controls vary widely across different countries and may change frequently over time. 
Increasingly, governments have begun using export and import controls not only to further national security objectives but also to protect local industries and restrict proliferation of locally developed “emerging or foundational technology." For example, in 2018 the U.S. enacted the Export Control Reform Act, which expands the power of the Commerce Department to use export controls to protect domestic industry and to restrict the export of emerging and foundational technologies not currently subject to controls. In furtherance of that law, on November 19, 2018, the United States Department of Commerce sought public comment on how to define emerging technologies. Our ability to market and sell our products overseas may be impacted by such export controls. 
In addition, the U.S. and other governments have especially broad sanctions and embargoes prohibiting provision of goods or services to certain countries, and territories, and to certain sanctioned governments, legal entities and individuals. Some of these restrictions have been imposed not just to protect national security but also to protect domestic industries and to achieve political aims. For instance, the U.S. Department of Commerce in 2018 added to its Entity List a Chinese semiconductor manufacturer on the express basis that it threatens the viability of U.S. competitors; the Entity List traditionally is used to restrict exports to end users that pose a security risk. Particularly far reaching and complex are restrictions imposed by the U.S. and EU on exports to Russia and, in particular, to the disputed region of Crimea. We have implemented systems to detect and prevent sales into these restricted countries or to prohibited entities or individuals, but there can be no assurance that our third party, downstream resellers and distributors will abide by these restrictions or have processes in place to ensure compliance, especially where local government regulation might prohibit adherence to such restrictions.
Certain governments also impose special local content, certification, testing, source code review, escrow and governmental recovery of private encryption keys, or other cybersecurity feature requirements to protect network equipment and software procured by or for the government. Similar requirements also may be imposed in procurements by state owned entities (“SOE’s”) or even private companies forming part of “critical network infrastructure” or supporting sensitive industries. For example, China, Vietnam and India have promulgated cybersecurity regulations affecting networking products that may impair our ability to profitably market and sell our products there. China, in particular, is expected to require implementation of non-standard Chinese encryption algorithms in products sold into certain government, SOE, critical infrastructure and sensitive industry (such as financial institutions) markets. In the U.S., there are new restrictions on the use of certain Chinese-origin components or systems either (1) in items sold to the U.S. government or (2) in the internal networks of government contractors and subcontractors (even if those networks are not used for government-related projects). The U.S. government also might restrict or ban the use of certain Chinese-origin components and systems in next generation mobile communications networks (e.g. 5G).
In addition, governments sometimes impose additional taxes on certain imported products. For example, the United States and Chinese governments each have imposed tariffs on certain products originating from the other country. In 2018, the United States imposed tariffs on a large variety of products of China origin. As a result, beginning September 24, 2018, a large portion of Juniper products manufactured in China became subject to a 10% tariff on importation into the U.S. While the United States government postponed a planned rate increase to 25% while bilateral trade negotiations were on-going, the President announced on May 5, 2019, that the 25% rate would go into effect on May 10, 2019 due to the lack of negotiation progress. On May 5, 2019 the U.S. President also reiterated his readiness to further expand the scope of the tariffs on Chinese goods if negotiations are not successful; such action could subject an even wider range of Juniper products to tariff on importation into the U.S. Depending upon its duration and implementation, as well as our ability to mitigate their impact, these tariffs could materially affect our business, including in the form of increased cost of goods sold, increased pricing for customers, and reduced sales.
A wide variety of provincial, state, national, foreign, and international laws and regulations apply to the collection, use, retention, protection, disclosure, transfer, and other processing of personal data. These privacy- and data protection-related laws and regulations are evolving, with new or modified laws and regulations proposed and implemented frequently and existing laws and 
regulations subject to new or different interpretations. Further, our legal and regulatory obligations in foreign jurisdictions are subject to unexpected changes, including the potential for regulatory or other governmental entities to enact new or additional laws or regulations, to issues rulings that invalidate prior laws or regulations, or to increase penalties significantly. Compliance with these laws and regulations can be costly and can delay or impede the development and offering of new products and services.
For example, the General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”), which became effective in May 2018, imposes more stringent data protection requirements, and provides for significantly greater penalties for noncompliance, than the EU laws that previously applied. Additionally, California recently enacted legislation, the California Consumer Privacy Act (“CCPA”), which will become effective January 1, 2020. The CCPA will, among other requirements, require covered companies to provide new disclosures to California consumers, and allow such consumers new abilities to opt-out of certain sales of personal information. Legislators have stated that they intend to propose amendments to the CCPA before the effective date. It remains unclear the extent of the modifications that will be made to the CCPA, or how such modifications will be interpreted. The effects of the CCPA potentially are significant and may require us to modify our data processing practices and policies and to incur substantial costs and expenses in an effort to comply. We may also be subject to additional obligations relating to personal data by contract that industry standards apply to our practices. Our actual or perceived failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations or other obligations to which we may be subject relating to personal data, or to protect personal data from unauthorized access, use, or other processing, could result in enforcement actions and regulatory investigations against us, claims for damages by customers and other affected individuals, fines, damage to our reputation, and loss of goodwill, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial performance, and business. Further, evolving and changing definitions of personal data and personal information, within the EU, the U.S., U.K., and elsewhere, including the classification of IP addresses, machine identification information, location data, and other information, may limit or inhibit our ability to operate or expand our business, including limiting business relationships and partnerships that may involve the sharing or uses of data, and may require significant costs, resources, and efforts in order to comply. 
Our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain the services of executive, engineering, sales and marketing, and support personnel. The supply of highly qualified individuals, in particular engineers in very specialized technical areas, or sales people with specialized industry expertise, is limited and competition for such individuals is intense. None of our officers or key employees is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term. The loss of the services of any of our key employees, the inability to attract or retain personnel in the future or delays in hiring required personnel, engineers and sales people, and the complexity and time involved in replacing or training new employees, could delay the development and introduction of new products, and negatively impact our ability to market, sell, or support our products.
A number of our team members are foreign nationals who rely on visas and entry permits in order to legally work in the United States and other countries. In recent years, the United States has increased the level of scrutiny in granting H-1(B), L-1 and other business visas. In addition, the current U.S. administration has made immigration reform a priority. Compliance with United States immigration and labor laws could require us to incur additional unexpected labor costs and expenses or could restrain our ability to retain skilled professionals. Any of these restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial conditions. 
We are required to test intangible assets with indefinite lives, including goodwill, annually or more frequently if certain circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit and intangible assets below their carrying values. As of March 31, 2019, our goodwill was $3,109.3 million and our intangible assets with indefinite lives was $49.0 million. When the carrying value of a reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds its implied fair value of goodwill, or if the carrying amount of an intangible asset with an indefinite life exceeds its fair value, a charge to operations is recorded. Either event would result in incremental expenses for that quarter, which would reduce any earnings or increase any loss for the period in which the impairment was determined to have occurred. We have in the past recorded goodwill impairment charges. Declines in our level of revenues or declines in our operating margins, or sustained declines in our stock price, increase the risk that goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives may become impaired in future periods.
Furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. The outcome of any actions taken in these foreign countries may be different than if such actions were determined 
•changes in general IT spending,
•the imposition of government controls, inclusive of critical infrastructure protection;
•changes or limitations in trade protection laws or other regulatory requirements, which may affect our ability to import or export our products from various countries; 
•laws that restrict sales of products developed or manufactured outside of the country;
•varying and potentially conflicting laws and regulations;
•fluctuations in local economies;
•wage inflation or a tightening of the labor market;
•tax policies that could have a business impact;
•import tariffs imposed by the United States and reciprocal tariffs imposed by foreign countries;
•data privacy rules and other regulations that affect cross border data flow; and
In addition, the U.K.’s exit from the EU, commonly referred to as Brexit, has caused, and may continue to cause, uncertainty in the global markets. Brexit, if implemented, will take some period of time to complete and could result in regulatory changes that impact our business. For example, changes to the way service providers conduct business and transmit data between the U.K. and the EU could require us to make changes to the way we handle customer data. We will also review the impact of any resulting changes to EU or U.K. law that could affect our operations, such as labor policies, financial planning, product manufacturing, and product distribution. Political and regulatory responses to the vote are still developing and we are in the process of assessing the impact the vote may have on our business as more information becomes available. Nevertheless, because we conduct business in the EU, including the U.K., any of the effects of Brexit, including those we cannot anticipate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows.
There remains significant risk that the U.K. will exit from the EU without agreement between the EU and U.K. on terms addressing customs and trade matters. If it occurs, this “Hard Brexit” scenario would mean, among other things, that U.K. Customs would have to clear a far greater daily volume of imports than it has ever had to before. If U.K. Customs is not able to handle such 
increased volume, significant delays in imports may very well result, thereby potentially producing a short-term material adverse effect on our business. Hard Brexit could result in further short-term uncertainty and currency volatility. Additional currency volatility could drive a weaker British pound, which increases the cost of goods imported into our U.K. operations and may decrease the profitability of our U.K. operations. A weaker British pound versus the U.S. dollar also causes local currency results of our U.K. operations to be translated into fewer U.S. dollars during a reporting period. Any adjustments we make to our business and operations as a result of Brexit could result in significant time and expense to complete. Our business is also impacted by the negotiation and implementation of free trade agreements between the United States and other nations. Such agreements can reduce barriers to international trade and thus the cost of conducting business overseas. For instance, the United States recently reached a new trilateral trade agreement with the Governments of Canada and Mexico to replace the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). If the United States withdraws from NAFTA and the three countries fail to approve the new agreement, known as the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (U.S.MCA), our cost of doing business within the three countries could increase.
Our products are highly technical and complex, are critical to the operation of many networks, and, in the case of our security products, provide and monitor network security and may protect valuable information. Our products have contained and may contain one or more undetected errors, defects, malware, or security vulnerabilities. These errors may arise from hardware or software we produce or procure from third parties. Some errors in our products may only be discovered after a product has been installed and used by end-customers. 
The majority of our revenues and expenses are transacted in U.S. Dollars. We also have some transactions that are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the British Pound, Chinese Yuan, Euro, and Indian Rupee related to our sales and service operations outside of the United States. An increase in the value of the U.S. Dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the United States in which we sell in U.S. Dollars. This could negatively affect our ability to meet our customers' pricing expectations in those markets and may result in erosion of gross margin and market share. A weakened U.S. Dollar could increase the cost of local operating expenses and procurement of raw materials to the extent we must purchase components in foreign currencies.
Currently, we hedge currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and periodically hedge anticipated foreign currency cash flows, with the aim of offsetting the impact of currency fluctuations on these exposures. However, hedge activities can be costly, and hedging cannot fully offset all risks, including long-term declines or appreciation in the value of the U.S. Dollar. If our attempts to hedge against these risks are not successful, or if long-term declines or appreciation in the value of the U.S. Dollar persist, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted.
Our ability to successfully offer our products and implement our business plan in a rapidly evolving market requires an effective planning, forecasting, and management process to enable us to effectively scale and adjust our business and business models in response to fluctuating market opportunities and conditions. We will need to continue to improve our financial and managerial control and our reporting systems and procedures in order to manage our business effectively in the future. If we fail to effectively improve our systems and processes or we fail to monitor and ensure that these systems and processes are being used correctly, our ability to manage our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be negatively affected.
We rely on the availability and performance of information technology services provided by third parties, including IBM which will manage a significant portion of our systems.
Under the terms of our recent Master Services Agreement and certain Statements of Work, following a transition period, IBM will provide us with a broad range of information technology services, such as applications, including support, development and maintenance; infrastructure management and support, including for servers storage and network devices; and end user support including service desk. We expect that our businesses will become dependent on the services provided and systems operated for us by IBM and its third-party providers. While we believe that we conducted appropriate due diligence before entering into this 
Our success is dependent on our ability to maintain effective relationships with IBM and other third-party technology and service providers as well as the ability of IBM and any other third-party providers to perform as expected. We may terminate our agreement with IBM and any and all Statements of Work at any time on short notice for cause, convenience, certain specific performance failures, a breach of warranties by IBM, failure to transition, failure to transform, changes in law, force majeure, or a change in the control of either IBM or us. Depending on the type and timing of a termination, we may be required to pay certain termination amounts to IBM. IBM's only right to terminate the agreement is based on our failure to comply with certain terms applying to disputed payments.
We may be unable to generate the cash flow to satisfy our expenses, make anticipated capital expenditures or service our debt obligations, including the Notes and the Revolving Credit Facility.
As of March 31, 2019, we have issued $1,800.0 million in aggregate principal amount of senior notes, which we refer to collectively as the Notes, and had $1,789.6 million in total outstanding debt. In April 2019, we entered into a new credit agreement with certain institutional lenders that provides for a five-year $500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility, which we refer to as the Revolving Credit Facility, with an option to increase the Revolving Credit Facility by up to an additional $200.0 million. The Credit Agreement will terminate in April 2024, at which point all amounts borrowed must be repaid (subject to two one-year maturity extension options). As of March 31, 2019, no amounts were outstanding under our prior revolving credit agreement that was due to expire in June 2019 and was terminated in connection with our entry into the Revolving Credit Facility.
We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to enable us to satisfy our expenses, make anticipated capital expenditures or service our indebtedness, including the Notes and the Revolving Credit Facility (if drawn upon). Our ability to pay our expenses, satisfy our debt obligations, refinance our debt obligations and fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. Based upon current levels of operations, we believe cash flow from operations and available cash will be adequate for at least the next twelve months to meet our anticipated requirements for working capital, capital expenditures and scheduled payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness, including the Notes and the Revolving Credit Facility (if drawn upon). 
However, if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to borrow sufficient funds in the future to service our debt, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt (including the Notes) or obtain additional financing. There is no assurance that we will be able to refinance our debt, sell assets or borrow more money on terms acceptable to us, or at all.
•incur liens;
•incur sale and leaseback transactions; and
•consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person.
•covenants that limit or restrict the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries to, among other things, grant liens, merge or consolidate, dispose of all or substantially all of its assets, change their accounting or reporting policies, change their business and incur subsidiary indebtedness, in each case subject to customary exceptions for a credit facility of this size and type.
A portion of the transaction consideration we received from the divestiture of our Junos Pulse product portfolio is in the form of a non-contingent seller promissory note and we may not receive the amount owed to us (including accrued interest), including in the time frame contemplated, by the buyer under the note.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014, we completed the sale of our Junos Pulse product portfolio to an affiliate of Siris Capital, a private equity firm, for total consideration of $230.7 million, of which $125.0 million was in the form of an 18-month non-contingent interest-bearing promissory note issued to the Company. On May 1, 2017, we received a principal payment in the amount of $75.0 million and outstanding interest on the note, and we and the issuer agreed to further amend the terms of the note with respect to the remaining approximately $58.0 million to, among other things, extend the maturity date from December 31, 2018 to September 30, 2022, provided that interest due can be paid in kind by increasing the outstanding principal amount of the note and subordinate the note to other debt issued by senior lenders. Since a portion of the transaction consideration is in the form of a non-contingent seller promissory note and the note is subordinated to debt issued by senior lenders, there is the risk that we may not receive the amount owed to us (including accrued interest), including in the time frame contemplated, under the note. In the event that the promissory note is not repaid on the terms we contemplate, any collection or restructuring efforts we undertake may be costly and require significant time and attention from our management and there is no guarantee that we will be able to recover the amounts owed to us in full.
Our ability to pay quarterly dividends or achieve our intended capital return policy will be subject to, among other things, our financial position and results of operations, available cash and cash flow, capital and debt service requirements, use of cash for acquisitions and other factors. Any failure to pay or increase future dividends as announced, or a reduction or discontinuation of quarterly dividends could have a material adverse effect on our stock price.
In November 2018, we announced that for 2019, we intend to target a capital return policy, inclusive of share repurchases and dividends, of approximately 75% of annual free cash flow. Free cash flow is calculated as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. In January 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors approved a new $2.0 billion buyback authorization, which replaced our prior authorization. In February 2018, as a part of our new buyback authorization, we entered into a $750.0 million accelerated share repurchase program, or ASR, which was completed in the third quarter of 2018, and our Board of Directors declared an increase to our quarterly cash dividend to $0.18 per share, which reflects an increase of 80% compared to previous quarterly dividends. In January 2019, our Board of Directors declared an increase to our quarterly cash dividend to $0.19 per share. Any failure to meet our commitments to return capital to our stockholders could have a material adverse effect on our stock price.
The investment of our cash balance and our investments in government and corporate debt securities and equity securities are subject to risks, which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments.
At March 31, 2019, we had $2,155.6 million in cash and cash equivalents and $1,347.1 million in short-and long-term investments. We have invested these amounts primarily in asset-backed securities, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, corporate debt securities, foreign government debt securities, money market funds, mutual funds, time deposits, U.S. government agency securities, and U.S. government securities. We also have $94.1 million in other long-term assets for our investments in privately-held companies. Certain of our investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, sovereign debt, and interest rate risks. Our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair value of our publicly traded debt or equity investments is judged to be other-than-temporary. These market risks associated with our investment portfolio may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations.
Our amended and restated bylaws provide that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders’ ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or employees.
Our amended and restated bylaws provide that, unless we consent to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware (or if the Court of Chancery does not have jurisdiction, the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware) is the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf; (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of fiduciary duty owed by any of our current or former directors, officers, or other employees to us or to our stockholders; (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law, our restated certificate of incorporation, or our bylaws; (iv) any action or proceeding asserting a claim as to which Delaware General Corporation Law confers jurisdiction on the Court of Chancery or (v) any action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine. The exclusive forum provisions in our bylaws may limit a stockholder’s ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our current or former directors, officers, or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our current or former directors, officers, and other employees. Alternatively, if a court were to find the exclusive forum provisions contained in our bylaws to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, which could have a material and adverse impact on our business.
Uninsured losses could harm our operating results.
