Business and Market Environment
Juniper designs, develops, and sells products and services for high-performance networks to enable customers to build scalable, reliable, secure and cost-effective networks for their businesses, while achieving agility, efficiency and value through automation. 
Further, our intent is to lead in the area of software solutions that simplify the operation of networks, and to allow our customers across our key verticals to deliver further value over their networks. We anticipate that our increased focus on software business models will result in an increase in software revenue as a percentage of total revenue over time. 
•Strategic Enterprise will now be referred to as ‘Enterprise’
•Cloud will remain unchanged 
Types of customers included in the key verticals will remain unchanged.
We are focused on and continue to see significant opportunities from the implementation of cloud architectures, such as large public and private data centers, as well as distributed cloud infrastructure which resides in multiple, distributed data centers in order to place applications or services closer to end users, such as enabling security and "network-as-a-service."
We believe the network needs for our customers in our Service Provider, Cloud and Enterprise verticals are converging, as these customers recognize the need for high performance networks and leveraging the cloud for improved agility and greater levels of operating efficiency. 
As these customers continue to grow, we believe their network architectures will continue to evolve. We believe our understanding of high performance networking technology, and our strategy, position us to capitalize on the industry transition to more automated, cost-efficient, scalable networks.
In routing, we believe that certain large Cloud customers are transitioning their wide area networks from scale-up to a scale-out architecture as they continue to add capacity. This has resulted in, and we expect this may continue to result in, a transition of these customers from purchasing our MX product family to our PTX product family. These architectural shifts have led to a near-term slowdown in our net revenues as in some cases there is a pause before the new architecture ramps.
In switching, we see that certain large Cloud customers who can rapidly scale based on increased demand are in the process of adopting 100-Gigabit connections, or 100G, resulting in certain large deployment delays at our largest Cloud customers as they prepare for this adoption. 
During the first quarter of 2018, we continued to execute on our product strategy, specifically around the cloud. We introduced a new and smaller branch network services platform to combine branch security and hybrid WAN functionality with wireless 4G and LTE connectivity between branches, which can run third-party virtual network functions (VNFs). Also, we introduced new secure connectivity solutions to public clouds that combine on-boarding services with Juniper’s virtualized security and routing functions for both AWS and Azure cloud environments.
We also introduced the Juniper Metro Fabric to modernize metro service delivery for operators across multiple business use cases including cable, residential fiber, public cloud connective and mobile backhaul services. Juniper Metro Fabric incorporates a 5G-ready architecture that is designed to bring together new and existing ACX, MX and PTX series products lines that merge optical and packet into a single holistic experience to simplify and speed-up metro service delivery and optimize cost. 
Financial Results and Key Performance Metrics Overview
For the three months ended March 31, 2018, the accounting impact of adoption of Topic 606 resulted in an increase in revenue recognition by $1.9 million. Product revenue was $28.7 million higher under Topic 606, compared to Topic 605 during this quarter, primarily due to the impact of allocation of revenue between products and services, and recognition of variable consideration, partially offset by timing of recognition of revenue from sales to distributors. The product revenue increase was primarily allocated between Routing and Switching. Service revenue was $26.8 million lower under Topic 606, compared to Topic 605 this quarter, primarily due to the allocation of revenue between products and services. On a go forward basis, we do not expect a material difference in total annual revenue as a result of the adoption of Topic 606; however, we believe the adoption of Topic 606 will impact the allocation of revenue between product and service. See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part 1 of this report, for further discussion on the adoption of Topic 606.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
Results of Operations
Product net revenues decreased during the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, due to a decrease in revenue from routing and switching products, partially offset by the impact of adoption of Topic 606 and growth in security. 
The year-over-year decrease in routing revenue was primarily driven by Service Provider due to the timing of customer deployments, and the recognition of one-time deferred revenue of an APAC Service Provider during the first quarter of 2017 that did not occur during the same period in 2018. The decrease in routing revenue from Cloud customers was driven by ongoing architectural shifts in the Americas. Revenues from our MX and legacy product family declined year-over-year due to the timing of customer deployments, which was partially offset by growth in revenues from our PTX products. 
Security net revenue increased during the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, driven by all verticals. We expect that our security business will see year-over-year growth for the full year 2018.
Service net revenue decreased during the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, due to the impact of adoption of Topic 606. Excluding the impact of adoption of Topic 606, our service net revenue increased year-over-year, which was driven primarily by strong renewal and attach rates of support contracts. As a result of Topic 606, we expect that our service net revenue will see a decrease for the full year 2018 compared to 2017.
Gross Margins
Product gross margin
Service gross margin 
Service gross margin as a percentage of service net revenues decreased during the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to lower revenue and higher service delivery costs.
Operating Expenses
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, research and development expenses decreased primarily due to lower personnel-related expenses, specifically in salaries and wages and variable compensation, partially offset by higher share-based compensation expenses from certain performance share awards. The decrease in sales and marketing was primarily due to decreased marketing-related expenses, partially offset by personnel-related expenses. The increase in general and administrative costs were primarily due to outside accounting and consulting services. We had lower headcount during the first quarter of 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, driven by a restructuring plan initiated during the first quarter of 2017, which we refer to as our 2017 Restructuring Plan. We had no restructuring charges during the first quarter of 2018, nor do we anticipate any further charges under the 2017 Restructuring Plan. 
Other Expense, Net 
Total other expense, net decreased during the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to an increase in interest income related to our fixed income investment portfolio, as a result of higher yields. 
Our effective tax rate during the three months ended March 31, 2018 differs from the statutory rate of 21% primarily due to the benefit of the federal research and development credit and foreign earnings taxed at lower rates. The rate for the period includes a discrete benefit of 4.4% primarily related to the net impact of unrecognized tax benefits.
Summary of Cash Flows 
Operating Activities
Net cash provided by operations decreased during the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017. The decrease was primarily due to higher cash collections from customers during the first quarter of 2017 related to service renewals 
invoiced during the fourth quarter of 2016, partially offset by a decrease in cash paid for personnel-related costs, in particular as a result of a reduction in headcount and lower incentive compensation.
Investing Activities
Net cash used in financing activities increased during the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to the payment of $750.0 million pursuant to the accelerated share repurchase program as described further below and increases in payment of cash dividends. 
Capital Return
In January 2018, our Board of Directors, which we refer to as the Board, approved a $2.0 billion share repurchase program, which we refer to as the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program. The 2018 Stock Repurchase Program replaces the previous authorization approved by the Board in 2014. 
As part of the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program, during the quarter ended March 31, 2018, we entered into the ASR with two financial institutions to repurchase $750.0 million of our common stock. During the three months ended March 31, 2018, we made an up-front payment of $750.0 million pursuant to the ASR and received an initial 23.3 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate price of $600.0 million, based on the market value of our common stock on the date of the transaction.
As of March 31, 2018, there was $1.3 billion of authorized funds remaining under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program. 
Future share repurchases under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program will be subject to a review of the circumstances at that time and will be made from time to time in private transactions or open market purchases as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements. Our 2018 Stock Repurchase Program may be discontinued at any time. 
In addition to repurchases under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program, we also repurchase common stock from certain employees in connection with satisfying applicable tax withholding requirements upon the vesting of certain stock awards issued to such employees. Repurchases associated with tax withholdings were not material during the three months ended March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, we declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.18 per share of common stock on January 30, 2018, which was paid on March 22, 2018 to stockholders of record on March 1, 2018 in the aggregate amount of $62.1 million. Any future dividends, and the establishment of record and payment dates, are subject to approval by the Board of Juniper Networks or an authorized committee thereof. See Note 15, Subsequent Events, for discussion of our dividend declaration subsequent to March 31, 2018. 
We have an unsecured revolving credit facility that will expire in 2019, which enables borrowings of up to $500.0 million, with the option to increase the amount of the credit facility by up to an additional $200.0 million. As of March 31, 2018, we were in compliance with all covenants and there were no amounts outstanding under our credit facility.
Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers
As part of the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program, we entered into the ASR in February 2018 with two financial institutions to repurchase $750.0 million of our common stock. During the three months ended March 31, 2018, we made an up-front payment of $750.0 million pursuant to the ASR and received and retired an initial 23.3 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate price of $600.0 million based on the market value of our common stock on the date of the transaction. This does not represent the final number of shares to be delivered under the ASR. The remaining $150.0 million was recorded as a forward contract indexed to the price of our common stock. For further explanation of our ASR, see Note 9, Equity, in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Report.
During the Advisory Period, Mr. Molinaro (i) will be paid a prorated portion of his base salary and will be eligible for a pro-rated portion of his annual cash bonus based on the number of hours he works, (ii) will continue to vest in his equity awards pursuant to their terms, (iii) will continue to receive standard health benefits made available to similarly situated employees, subject to satisfying eligibility requirements, and (iv) will remain subject to all Juniper policies and agreements applicable to him as an employee.
Subject to certain terms and conditions, including his continued compliance with Juniper policies and his Confidential Information and Invention Assignment Agreement and his execution of a release, Mr. Molinaro will be entitled to receive severance payments consistent with his Severance Agreement in the event he is not terminated for Cause (as defined by his Severance Agreement). Any bonus payments payable under his Severance Agreement will be prorated for the number of hours he works.
The foregoing summary of the Letter Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the Letter Agreement, which is attached as Exhibit 10.4, and is incorporated herein by reference.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant had duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
