Item 1. Financial Statements
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations
See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements 
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income
See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets
See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements
Basis of Presentation
Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Except for the change in certain policies upon adoption of the accounting standards described below, there have been no material changes to the Company's significant accounting policies, compared to the accounting policies described in Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies, in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of the Form 10-K.
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
Revenue Recognition
Revenue is recognized when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services by following a five-step process, (1) identify the contract with a customer, (2) identify the performance obligations in the contract, (3) determine the transaction price, (4) allocate the transaction price, and (5) recognize revenue when or as the Company satisfies a performance obligation, as further described below.
Identify the performance obligations in the contract. Product performance obligations include hardware and software licenses and service performance obligations include maintenance, software post-contract support, training, and professional services. Certain software licenses and related post-contract support are combined into a single performance obligation when the maintenance updates are critical to the continued functionality of the software. 
Determine the transaction price. The transaction price for the Company’s contracts with its customers consists of both fixed and variable consideration provided it is probable that a significant reversal of revenue will not occur when the uncertainty related to variable consideration is resolved. Fixed consideration includes amounts to be contractually billed to the customer while variable consideration includes estimates for rights of return, rebates, and price protection, which are based on historical sales returns and price protection credits, specific criteria outlined in rebate agreements, and other factors known at the time. The Company generally invoices customers for hardware, software licenses and related maintenance arrangements at time of delivery, and professional services either upfront or upon meeting certain milestones. Customer invoices are generally due within 30 to 90 days after issuance. The Company’s contracts with customers typically do not include significant financing components as the period between the transfer of performance obligations and timing of payment are generally within one year.
Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract. For contracts that contain multiple performance obligations, the Company allocates the transaction price to the performance obligations on a relative standalone selling price basis. Standalone selling prices are based on multiple factors including, but not limited to historical discounting trends for products and services, pricing practices in different geographies and through different sales channels, gross margin objectives, internal costs, competitor pricing strategies, and industry technology lifecycles.
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
Recognize revenue when or as the Company satisfies a performance obligation. Revenue for hardware and certain software licenses, are recognized at a point in time, which is generally upon shipment or delivery. Certain software licenses combined with post-contract support are recognized over time on a ratable basis over the term of the license. Revenue for maintenance and software post-contract support is recognized over time on a ratable basis over the contract term. Revenue from training and professional services is recognized over time as services are completed or ratably over the contractual period of generally one year or less.
Deferred Commissions
Recent Accounting Standards Not Yet Effective
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
Note 3. Cash Equivalents and Investments 
Investments in Available-for-Sale Debt Securities
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
For available-for-sale debt securities that have unrealized losses, the Company assesses impairment by evaluating various factors, including whether (i) it has the intention to sell any of these investments and (ii) whether it is more likely than not that it will be required to sell any of these investments before recovery of the entire amortized cost basis. As of June 30, 2018, the Company had 545 investments in unrealized loss positions. The gross unrealized losses related to these investments were primarily due to changes in market interest rates. The Company anticipates that it will recover the entire amortized cost basis of such available-for-sale debt securities and has determined that no other-than-temporary impairments associated with credit losses were required to be recognized during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and June 30, 2017.
During the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and June 30, 2017, there were no material gross realized gains or losses from available-for-sale debt securities.
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
Investments in Equity Securities
For the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and June 30, 2017, there were no material unrealized gains or losses recognized for equity investments.
Restricted Cash and Investments
As of June 30, 2018, the carrying value of restricted cash and investments was $59.3 million, of which $29.0 million was included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and $30.3 million was included in other long-term assets on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
All of the Company's privately-held debt and redeemable preferred stock securities are classified as Level 3 assets due to the lack of observable inputs to determine fair value. The Company estimates the fair value of its privately-held debt and redeemable preferred stock securities on a recurring basis using an analysis of the financial condition and near-term prospects of the investee, including recent financing activities and the investee's capital structure. During the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, there were no significant activities related to privately-held debt and redeemable preferred stocks securities. 
Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis
Certain of the Company's assets, including intangible assets and goodwill are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis, when they are deemed to be other-than temporarily impaired. There were no impairment charges recognized during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018.
Equity investments without readily determinable fair value are measured at fair value, when they are deemed to be impaired or when there is an adjustment from observable price changes. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, there were no impairment charges or adjustments resulting from observable price changes for equity investments without readily determinable fair value. 
As of June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the Company had no liabilities required to be measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis.
Assets and Liabilities Not Measured at Fair Value
The carrying amounts of the Company's accounts receivable, accounts payable, and other accrued liabilities approximate fair value due to their short maturities. As of June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the estimated fair value of the Company's short-term and long-term debt in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets was $2,178.8 million and $2,252.9 million, respectively, based on observable market inputs (Level 2). The carrying value of the promissory note issued to the Company in connection with the previously completed sale of Junos Pulse (the “Pulse Note”) of $64.6 million and $61.2 million approximates its fair value as of June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. The Pulse Note is classified as a Level 3 asset due to the lack of observable inputs to determine fair value. 
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
The Company uses derivatives to partially offset its market exposure to fluctuations in certain foreign currencies and does not enter into derivatives for speculative or trading purposes. 
Cash Flow Hedges
The Company uses foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the Company's planned cost of revenues and operating expenses denominated in foreign currencies. These derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges. Execution of cash flow hedge derivatives typically occurs every month with maturities of eighteen months or less. As of June 30, 2018, an estimated $3.2 million of existing net loss within accumulated other comprehensive loss is expected to be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months.
The Company recognized an unrealized loss of $15.9 million and $2.5 million in accumulated other comprehensive loss for the effective portion of its derivative instruments for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively; and an unrealized gain of $3.8 million and $10.8 million for the comparable periods in fiscal 2017, respectively. The Company reclassified a gain of $3.3 million and $8.9 million out of accumulated other comprehensive loss to cost of revenues and operating expenses in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively. The amount reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive loss to cost of revenues and operating expenses in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations was not material during the three and six months ended June 30, 2017.
The ineffective portion of the Company's derivative instruments recognized in its Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations was not material during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and June 30, 2017.
See Note 4, Fair Value Measurements, for the fair values of the Company's derivative instruments in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Non-Designated Derivatives 
The Company also uses foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate variability in gains and losses generated from the remeasurement of certain monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. These foreign exchange forward contracts typically have maturities of approximately one to three months. The outstanding non-designated derivative instruments are carried at fair value. Changes in the fair value of these derivatives recorded in other expense, net within the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations were not material during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and June 30, 2017.
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
Note 6. Other Financial Information
Inventory 
Warranties 
Deferred Revenue
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
Revenue
See Note 10, Segments for disaggregated revenue by product and service, customer vertical and geographic region.
Product revenue of $17.0 million and $56.5 million included in deferred revenue at January 1, 2018 was recognized during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively. Service revenue of $166.3 million and $431.3 million included in deferred revenue at January 1, 2018 was recognized during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively.
Deferred Commissions
Deferred commissions were $26.3 million as of June 30, 2018. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, amortization expense for the deferred commissions was $37.7 million and $78.2 million, respectively. There were no impairment charges recognized during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018.
Other Expense, Net 
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
Note 7. Restructuring (Benefits) Charges 
During 2017, the Company initiated a restructuring plan (the “2017 Restructuring Plan”) to realign its workforce and increase operational efficiencies. The 2017 Restructuring Plan consisted of severance and contract termination costs that were recorded to restructuring (benefits) charges in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. 
The Company does not anticipate future charges under the 2017 Restructuring Plan and expects to pay the remaining restructuring liabilities by the end of 2018, at which time the Company would consider the 2017 Restructuring Plan to be substantially completed.
Cash Dividends on Shares of Common Stock
During the six months ended June 30, 2018, the Company declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.18 per share of common stock on January 30, 2018 and May 2, 2018, which was paid on March 22, 2018 and June 22, 2018, respectively, to stockholders of record on March 1, 2018 and June 1, 2018, respectively, in the aggregate amount of $124.9 million. Any future dividends, and the establishment of record and payment dates, are subject to approval by the Board of Directors (the “Board”) of Juniper Networks or an authorized committee thereof. See Note 14, Subsequent Events, for discussion of the Company's dividend declaration subsequent to June 30, 2018. 
Stock Repurchase Activities 
In January 2018, the Board approved a $2.0 billion share repurchase program, including $750.0 million to be used pursuant to an accelerated share repurchase program ("2018 Stock Repurchase Program"). The 2018 Stock Repurchase Program replaces the previous authorization approved by the Board in 2014 ("2014 Stock Repurchase Program"). 
As part of the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program, in February 2018, the Company entered into an accelerated share repurchase program (the "ASR") with two financial institutions to repurchase $750.0 million of the Company's common stock. During the three months ended March 31, 2018, the Company made an up-front payment of $750.0 million pursuant to the ASR and received an initial 23.3 million shares of the Company's common stock for an aggregate price of $600.0 million, based on the market value of the Company's common stock on the date of the transaction. The initial shares received by the Company were retired, accounted for as a reduction to stockholders' equity in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, and treated as a repurchase of common stock for purposes of calculating earnings per share. The forward contract for the remaining $150.0 million is considered indexed to the Company's common stock and meets all of the applicable criteria for equity classification.
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
As of June 30, 2018, there were $1.3 billion of authorized funds remaining under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program. 
Future share repurchases under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program will be subject to a review of the circumstances at that time and will be made from time to time in private transactions or open market purchases as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements. The Company's 2018 Stock Repurchase Program may be discontinued at any time.
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss, Net of Tax
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
Note 9. Employee Benefit Plans
Equity Incentive Plans
The Company has stock-based compensation plans pursuant to which it has granted stock options, restricted stock units (“RSUs”), and performance share awards (“PSAs”). The Company also maintains its 2008 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the “ESPP”) for all eligible employees. 
As of June 30, 2018, 24.2 million and 9.9 million shares were available for future issuance under the Company's 2015 Equity Incentive Plan (the "2015 Plan") and the ESPP, respectively.
Stock Option Activities
Restricted Stock Unit, Restricted Stock Award, and Performance Share Award Activities
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
Employee Stock Purchase Plan 
On November 6, 2017, the Company’s Compensation Committee amended and restated the ESPP to provide that the offering period that began on February 1, 2018 would be for 24 months with four 6-month purchase periods. A new 24-month offering period will commence every six months thereafter. The purchase price for the Company’s common stock under the ESPP is 85% of the lower of the fair market value of the shares at (1) the beginning of the applicable offering period or (2) the end of each 6-month purchase period during such offering period. The ESPP will continue in effect until February 25, 2028, unless terminated earlier under the provisions of the ESPP. 
For the six months ended June 30, 2018 and June 30, 2017, employees purchased approximately 1.3 million and 1.5 million shares of common stock through the ESPP at an average exercise price of $22.23 and $19.21 per share, respectively. There were no stock purchases under the ESPP during the three months ended June 30, 2018 and June 30, 2017.
Share-Based Compensation Expense
As of June 30, 2018, the total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested share-based awards was $356.5 million to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.7 years. 
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
The Company operates in one reportable segment. The Company's chief executive officer, who is the chief operating decision maker, reviews financial information presented on a consolidated basis for purposes of allocating resources and evaluating financial performance, accompanied by disaggregated information about net revenues by product and service, customer vertical, and geographic region as presented below.
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
Note 11. Income Taxes
The Tax Act also includes provisions to tax Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (“GILTI”) of foreign subsidiaries in excess of a deemed return on their tangible assets. Due to the complexities of the new provisions, the Company is continuing to evaluate how the provisions will be accounted for under U.S. GAAP. Pursuant to the Tax Act, corporations are allowed to make an accounting policy election to either (i) account for GILTI as a component of income tax expense in the period in which the corporation is subject to the rules (the “period cost method”), or (ii) account for GILTI in the corporation's measurement of deferred taxes (the “deferred method”). The Company has not currently elected a method and will do so after completing its analysis of the GILTI provisions of the Tax Act depending on the analysis of the Company’s global income. Therefore, the Company has not recorded any potential deferred tax effects related to the GILTI in its financial statements and has no policy election regarding whether to record deferred taxes on GILTI or use the period cost method. The Company has, however, included an estimate of the current GILTI impact in its annual effective tax rate for 2018. The Company expects to complete the accounting during the measurement period.
The Company's effective tax rate during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 differs from the statutory rate of 21%, primarily due to less favorable mix of foreign earnings taxed at varying rates, and state income tax, offset by the benefit of the federal research and development credit.
As of June 30, 2018, the total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits was $261.7 million. 
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
Note 12. Net Income per Share
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
Note 13. Commitments and Contingencies
Except for the items below, there have been no material changes to the Company's commitments compared to the commitments described in Note 16, Commitments and Contingencies, in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of the Form 10-K. 
Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and Suppliers 
In order to reduce manufacturing lead times and in the interest of having access to adequate component supply, the Company enters into agreements with contract manufacturers and certain suppliers to procure inventory based on the Company's requirements. A significant portion of the Company's purchase commitments arising from these agreements consists of firm and non-cancelable commitments. These purchase commitments totaled $609.4 million as of June 30, 2018. 
The Company establishes a liability in connection with purchase commitments related to quantities in excess of its demand forecasts or obsolete materials charges for components purchased by the contract manufacturers based on the Company’s demand forecast or customer orders. As of June 30, 2018, the Company had accrued $24.1 million based on its estimate of such charges.
Guarantees
The Company enters into agreements with customers that contain indemnification provisions relating to potential situations where claims could be alleged that the Company’s products solely, or in combination with other third party products, infringe the intellectual property rights of a third-party. As of June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the Company recorded $9.4 million and $20.4 million, respectively, for such indemnification obligations in other accrued liabilities and other long-term liabilities on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Investigations
The Company previously disclosed that it has been the subject of investigations by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and the U.S. Department of Justice ("DOJ") into possible violations by the Company of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA"). In cooperation with these investigations, the Company and the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, with the assistance of outside counsel and other independent advisors, conducted a thorough internal investigation. As a result of its internal investigation, the Company made significant improvements in its internal controls and carried out a number of disciplinary actions. In the fourth quarter of 2017, the DOJ notified the Company that the DOJ has closed its investigation related to these matters without taking any action against the Company. The Company is continuing to fully cooperate with the SEC’s ongoing investigation, but believes an adverse outcome is reasonably possible. Based on the Company’s recent communications with the Staff of the SEC, the Company believes that it is likely that the Staff of the SEC will seek to bring an enforcement action against the Company. As a result, the Company believes it is reasonably possible that it could incur a loss related to the ongoing SEC investigation, but the Company is not able to estimate the outcome or develop a reasonable estimate of a possible loss or range of possible losses, if any. As discussions are continuing, there can be no assurance as to the timing or the terms of any final resolution of this matter.
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
Note 14. Subsequent Events
Dividend Declaration
On July 26, 2018, the Company announced that it had declared a cash dividend of $0.18 per share of common stock payable on September 25, 2018 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on September 4, 2018.
Stock Repurchase Activities
During the third quarter of 2018, the ASR was completed and the Company received an additional 6.0 million shares from the financial institutions. These 6.0 million shares will be retired in the third quarter of 2018. The completion of the ASR resulted in a total settlement of 29.3 million shares of the Company's common stock at a volume weighted average repurchase price, less an agreed upon discount, of $25.62 per share.
Item 1. Legal Proceedings
The information set forth under the “Legal Proceedings” section in Note 13, Commitments and Contingencies, in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Report, is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 1A. Risk Factors
•limited visibility into customer spending plans; 
•changes in customer mix; 
•changes in the mix of products and services sold; 
•changes in the mix of geographies in which our products and services are sold; 
•changing market and economic conditions; 
•current and potential customer, partner and supplier consolidation and concentration; 
•price and product competition; 
•long sales, qualification and implementation cycles; 
•unpredictable ordering patterns and reduced visibility into our customers’ spending plans and associated revenue; 
•how well we execute on our strategy and operating plans and the impact of changes in our business model that could result in significant restructuring charges;
•our ability to achieve targeted cost reductions;
•changes in tax laws or accounting rules, or interpretations thereof;
•changes in the amount and frequency of share repurchases or dividends; 
•regional economic and political conditions; and 
•seasonality. 
A substantial portion of our business and revenues depends on the growth of secure IP infrastructure and on the deployment of our products by customers that depend on the continued growth of IP services. As a result of changes in the economy, capital spending or the building of network capacity in excess of demand, all of which have in the past particularly affected telecommunications service providers, spending on IP infrastructure can vary, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, a number of our existing customers are evaluating the build-out of their next generation networks. During the decision-making period when our customers are determining the design of those networks and the selection of the software and equipment they will use in those networks, such customers may greatly reduce or 
suspend their spending on secure IP infrastructure. For example, in recent quarters, our switching and routing results were adversely affected by spending delays from our largest Cloud customers, who we believe are in the process of implementing a networking architectural shift. The duration of the delay is difficult to predict, in part because each Cloud customer will migrate their network architecture based on their own constraints. Such delays in purchases can make it more difficult to predict revenues from customers, can cause fluctuations in the level of spending by customers and, even where our products are ultimately selected, can have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.
Competition is intense in the markets that we serve. The routing and switching markets have historically been dominated by Cisco, with competition coming from other companies such as Nokia Corporation (following its acquisition of Alcatel-Lucent), Arista, HPE, and Huawei. In the security market, we face intense competition from Cisco and Palo Alto Networks, as well as companies 
such as Check Point, F5 Networks, and Fortinet. Further, a number of other small public and private companies have products or have announced plans for new products to address the same challenges and markets that our products address.
The introduction of new software products and services is part of our intended strategy to expand our software business, and certain software revenues may be recognized periodically over the term of the relevant use period or subscription period. As a result, certain software, subscription and support and maintenance revenue we report each fiscal quarter is the recognition of deferred revenue from contracts entered into during previous fiscal quarters. Consequently, a decline in such new or renewed contracts in any one fiscal quarter will not be fully or immediately reflected in revenue in that fiscal quarter but will negatively affect our revenue in future fiscal quarters. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in new or renewed sales of certain software products, subscriptions or support and maintenance is not reflected in full in our operating results until future periods. Also, it is 
•the possibility that our new software products or disaggregated products may not achieve widespread customer adoption;
•the possibility that our strategy could erode our revenue and gross margins;
•the impact on our financial results of longer periods of revenue recognition for certain types of software products
 and changes in tax treatment associated with software sales;
•the additional costs associated with regulatory compliance and changes we need to make to our distribution chain in connection with increased software sales;
We depend on independent contract manufacturers (each of which is a third-party manufacturer for numerous companies) to manufacture our products. Although we have contracts with our contract manufacturers, these contracts do not require them to manufacture our products on a long-term basis in any specific quantity or at any specific price. In addition, it is time-consuming and costly to qualify and implement additional contract manufacturer relationships. Therefore, if we fail to effectively manage our contract manufacturer relationships, which includes failing to provide accurate forecasts of our requirements, or if one or more of them experiences delays, disruptions, or quality control problems in our manufacturing operations, or if we had to change or add additional contract manufacturers or contract manufacturing sites, our ability to ship products to our customers could be delayed. We have experienced in the past and may experience in the future an increase in the expected time required to manufacture our products or ship products. Such delays could result in supply shortfalls that damage our ability to meet customer demand for those products and could cause our customers to purchase alternative products from our competitors. Also, the addition of manufacturing locations or contract manufacturers or the introduction of new products by us would increase the complexity of our supply chain management. Moreover, an increasing portion of our manufacturing is performed in China and other foreign countries and is therefore subject to risks associated with doing business outside of the United States, including the possibility of import tariffs or regional conflicts. For example, the United States and Chinese governments have each recently announced import tariffs, and the United States has announced additional proposed import tariffs, on certain products originating from the other country. These tariffs, depending upon their ultimate scope, duration and how they are implemented, could negatively impact our business by increasing our costs and by making our products less cost competitive. We may not be able to pass such increased costs on to our customers. In addition, increased costs of production or delays in production caused by any relocation of contract manufacturing facilities could impact the global competitiveness of our products. Each of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
We rely on single or limited sources for certain of our components. During periods of high demand for electronic products, component shortages are possible, and the predictability of the availability of such components may be limited. For example, we are in the process of working through some industry-wide supply constraints related to power management components. In addition, 
The development of alternate sources for components is time-consuming, difficult, and costly. In addition, the lead times associated with certain components are lengthy and preclude rapid changes in quantities and delivery schedules. Also, long-term supply and 
In addition, the development, licensing, or acquisition of new products in the future may increase the complexity of supply chain management. Failure to effectively manage the supply of components and products would adversely affect our business. 
In the ordinary course of business, we store sensitive data, including intellectual property, personal data, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners on our networks. In addition, we store sensitive data through cloud-based services that may be hosted by third parties and in data center infrastructure maintained by third parties. The secure maintenance of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. The growing cyber risk environment means that individuals, companies, and organizations of all sizes, including Juniper, have been and are increasingly subject to the threat of intrusions on their networks and systems by a wide range of actors on an ongoing and regular basis. Despite our security measures, and those of our third-party vendors, our information technology and infrastructure has experienced breaches and may be vulnerable in the future to breach or attacks by computer programmers, hackers or sophisticated nation-state and nation-state supported actors or breached due to employee error or wrongful conduct, malfeasance, or other disruptions. If any breach or attack compromises our networks, creates system disruptions or slowdowns or exploits security vulnerabilities of our products, the information stored on our networks or those of our customers could be accessed and modified, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen, and we may be subject to liability to our customers, suppliers, business partners and others, and suffer reputational and financial harm. In addition, hardware, components and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including "bugs", vulnerabilities and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of our networks or expose us or our products to cyber attacks. This can be true even for “legacy” products that have been determined to have reached an end of life engineering status but will continue to operate for a limited amount of time.
As a result of any actual or perceived breach of network security that occurs in our network or in the network of a customer of our products, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our products, the market perception of the effectiveness of our products and our overall reputation could be harmed. As a large, well known provider of networking products, cyber attackers may specifically target our products or attempt to imitate us or our products in order to compromise a network. Because the techniques used by attackers, many of whom are highly sophisticated and well-funded, to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until after they are used, we may be unable to anticipate or immediately detect these techniques or the vulnerabilities they have caused. This could impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions, which could have an adverse impact on our financial results. The economic costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, 
bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software systems and security vulnerabilities could be significant and may be difficult to anticipate or measure, because the damage may differ based on the identity and motive of the attacker, which are often difficult to pinpoint. Additionally, we could be subject to regulatory investigations, potential fines and litigation in connection with a security breach or related issue and be liable to third parties for these types of breaches. 
We rely on value-added and other resellers, as well as distribution partners, to sell our products, and disruptions to, or our failure to effectively develop and manage, our distribution channel and the processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products.
Our future success is highly dependent upon establishing and maintaining successful relationships with a variety of value-added and other reseller and distribution partners, including our worldwide strategic partners such as Ericsson, IBM, Dimension Data and NEC Corporation. The majority of our revenues are derived through value-added resellers and distributors, most of which also sell our competitors’ products, and some of which sell their own competing products. Our revenues depend in part on the performance of these partners. The loss of or reduction in sales to our resellers or distributors could materially reduce our revenues. For example, in 2016, Nokia Corporation merged with Alcatel-Lucent, a competitor of ours, and in 2015 Cisco announced a partnership with Ericsson, which is one of our existing partners. Our competitors may in some cases be effective in leveraging their market share positions or in providing incentives to current or potential resellers and distributors to favor their products or to prevent or reduce sales of our products. If we fail to develop and maintain relationships with our partners, fail to develop new relationships with value-added resellers and distributors in new markets, fail to expand the number of distributors and resellers in existing markets, fail to manage, train or motivate existing value-added resellers and distributors effectively, determine that we cannot continue to do business with these partners for any reason or if these partners are not successful in their sales efforts, sales of our products may decrease, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations would suffer.
Further, in order to develop and expand our distribution channel, we must continue to offer attractive channel programs to potential partners and scale and improve our processes and procedures that support the channel. As a result, our programs, processes and procedures may become increasingly complex and inherently difficult to manage. We have previously entered into OEM agreements with partners pursuant to which they rebrand and resell our products as part of their product portfolios. These types of relationships are complex and require additional processes and procedures that may be challenging and costly to implement, maintain and manage. Our failure to successfully manage and develop our distribution channel and the programs, processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products. We also depend on our global channel partners to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements. To the extent that they fail to do so, that could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition.
Our ability to process orders and ship products in a timely manner is dependent in part on our business systems and performance of the systems and processes of third parties such as our contract manufacturers, suppliers, data center providers or other partners, as well as the interfaces between our systems and the systems of such third parties. If our systems, the systems and processes of those third parties, or the interfaces between them experience delays or fail, our business processes and our ability to build and ship products could be impacted, and our financial results could be harmed.
Some of our business processes depend upon our IT systems, the systems and processes of third parties, and the interfaces between the two. For example, we are in the process of further consolidating our on-site data centers to the cloud and to off-site facilities that are hosted and controlled by third-parties. These cloud providers and off-site facilities are vulnerable to damage, interruption or performance problems from earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, equipment failure, adverse events caused by operator error, cybersecurity attacks and similar events. In addition, because we lease our cloud storage space and off-site data center facilities, we cannot be assured that we will be able to expand our data center infrastructure to meet user demand in a timely manner, or on favorable economic terms. If we have issues receiving and processing data, this may delay our ability to provide products and services to our customers and damage our business. We also rely upon the performance of the systems and processes of our contract manufacturers to build and ship our products. If those systems and processes experience interruption or delay, our ability to build and ship our products in a timely manner may be harmed. 
We have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions in order to enhance our business. For example, in 2017 we acquired Cyphort Inc. and in 2016, we acquired AppFormix Inc., Aurrion, Inc. and BTI Systems Inc. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to, problems combining the purchased operations, technologies or products, unanticipated costs and liabilities, diversion of management's attention from our core businesses, adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience, and potential loss of key employees. There can be no assurance that we will be able to integrate successfully any businesses, products, technologies, or personnel that we might acquire. The integration of businesses that we may acquire is likely to be a complex, time-consuming, and expensive process and we may not realize the anticipated revenues or other benefits associated with our acquisitions if we fail to successfully manage and operate the acquired business. If we fail in any acquisition integration efforts and are unable to efficiently operate as a combined organization utilizing common information and communication systems, operating procedures, financial controls, and human resources practices, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected.
Telecommunications, cable and cloud service provider companies and our other large customers generally require onerous terms and conditions in our contracts with them. As we seek to sell more products to such customers, we may be required to agree to terms and conditions that could have an adverse effect on our business or impact the amount of revenues to be recognized.
We, and certain of our current and former officers and current and former members of our Board of Directors, have been or are subject to various lawsuits. We have been served with lawsuits related to employment matters, commercial transactions and patent infringement, as well as securities laws. As noted in Note 13, Commitments and Contingencies, in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Report, under the heading of “Legal Proceedings”, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, is conducting, and the U.S. Department of Justice, or the DOJ, was previously conducting, investigations into possible violations by the Company of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, in a number of countries. The Company’s Audit Committee, with the assistance of independent advisors, conducted a thorough internal review of possible violations of the FCPA, and the Company made improvements in its internal controls and carried out a number of disciplinary actions. The Company is continuing to fully cooperate with the SEC’s ongoing investigation, but believes an adverse outcome is reasonably possible and that it is likely 
We are subject to laws and regulations affecting the sale of our products in a number of areas. For example, some governments have regulations prohibiting government entities from purchasing security products that do not meet specified indigenous certification criteria, even though those criteria may be in conflict with accepted international standards. Other regulations that may negatively impact our business include country of origin regulations. These types of regulations are in effect or under consideration in several jurisdictions where we do business.
The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act includes disclosure requirements applicable to public companies regarding the use of “conflict minerals” mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries, which we refer to collectively as the DRC, and procedures regarding a manufacturer's efforts to prevent the sourcing of such “conflict minerals.” These minerals are present in our products. In addition, the European Union reached agreement in late 2016 on a EU-wide conflict minerals rule under which most EU importers of tin, tungsten, tantalum, gold and their ores will have to conduct due diligence to ensure the minerals do not originate from conflict zones and do not fund armed conflicts. Large manufacturers also will have to disclose how they plan to monitor their sources to comply with the rules. The regulation was adopted in 2017 with compliance required by 2021.
In addition, environmental laws and regulations relevant to electronic equipment manufacturing or operations, including laws and regulations governing the hazardous material content of our products and laws relating to the collection of and recycling of electrical and electronic equipment, may adversely impact our business and financial condition. These laws and regulations include, among others, the European Union, or EU, Restriction on the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, or RoHS. The EU RoHS and the similar laws of other jurisdictions limit the content of certain hazardous materials, such as lead, mercury, and cadmium, in electronic equipment, including our products. Currently, our products comply with the EU RoHS requirements. However, certain exemptions are scheduled to lapse, or have lapsed. The lapse of any exemption, further changes to this or other laws, or passage of similar laws in the EU or other jurisdictions, would require us to cease selling non-compliant products in the EU and to reengineer our products to use components compatible with these regulations. This reengineering and component substitution could result in additional costs to us, disrupt our operations or logistics, and result in 
an adverse impact on our operating results. In addition, in validating the compliance of our products with applicable hazardous materials restrictions, we rely substantially on affirmations by our component suppliers as to the compliance of their products with respect to those same restrictions. Failure by our component suppliers to furnish accurate and timely information could subject us to penalties or liability for violation of such hazardous materials restrictions, interrupt our supply of products to the EU, and result in our customers refusing or being unable to purchase our products. Additionally, the EU and a number of other countries have adopted regulations requiring producers of electrical and electronic equipment to assume certain responsibilities for collecting, treating, recycling and disposing of products when they have reached the end of their useful life. Finally, the EU REACH regulations regulate the handling of certain chemical substances that may be used in our products.
In addition, as a contractor and subcontractor to U.S. government departments and agencies, we are subject to Federal regulations pertaining to our IT systems. For instance, as a subcontractor to the U.S. Department of Defense, or DOD, the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS) required that our IT systems comply with the security and privacy controls described in National Institute of Standards and Technology Special Publication 800-171, or NIST SP 800-171 no later than December 31, 2017. The DFARS also requires that we flow the security control requirement down to certain of our own subcontractors. Failure to comply with these requirements could result in a loss of Federal government business, subject us to claims or other remedies for non-compliance and negatively impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations.
The telecommunications industry is highly regulated, and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected by changes in regulations relating to the Internet telecommunications industry. Currently, there are few laws or regulations that apply directly to access to or commerce on IP networks, but future regulations could include sales taxes on products sold via the Internet and Internet service provider access charges. We could be adversely affected by regulation of IP networks and commerce in any country where we market equipment and services to service providers or cloud provider companies. Regulations governing the range of services and business models that can be offered by service providers or cloud provider companies could adversely affect those customers' needs for products. For instance, in December 2017, the U.S. Federal Communications Commission repealed its 2015 regulations governing aspects of fixed broadband networks and wireless networks. This change in regulatory treatment of networks might impact service provider and cloud provider business models and, as such, providers' needs for Internet telecommunications equipment and services. Also, many jurisdictions are evaluating or implementing regulations relating to cyber security, supply chain integrity, privacy and data protection, any of which can affect the market and requirements for networking and security equipment.
Governmental regulations and economic sanctions affecting the import or export of products generally or affecting products containing encryption capabilities could negatively affect our revenues and operating results.
The United States and various foreign governments have imposed controls and restrictions on the export of, among other things, products that contain or use encryption technology. Most of our products contain or use encryption technology and, consequently, are subject to such controls, requirements and restrictions. Certain governments also control importation and in-country use of encryption items and technology. The scope, nature and severity of such controls vary widely across different countries and may change frequently over time. For example, China has promulgated cybersecurity regulations and published a new draft export law affecting networking products that may impair our ability to profitably market and sell our products in China. Certain countries’ encryption control regimes may significantly limit our ability to sell major lines of our products in those countries.
Certain governments also impose special local content, certification, testing, source code review, escrow and governmental recovery of private encryption keys, or feature requirements on network equipment for purposes of government procurements. Similar requirements may also be imposed in procurements by state owned entities (“SOE’s”). Our ability to sell into substantial government and SOE markets (whether or not the products we sell include encryption) is vulnerable to changes in applicable government procurement regulations, any associated local content requirements and changes in the government’s interpretation of such regulations. In addition, the U.S. government has broader sanctions and embargoes that generally forbid supply of most items to or involving certain countries, territories, governments, legal entities and individuals, including restrictions imposed by the U.S. and EU on exports to Russia and Ukraine. We have implemented systems to detect and prevent sales into these countries or to prohibited entities or individuals, but there can be no assurance that they will always be effective. 
In addition, governments sometimes impose additional taxes on certain imported products. For example, the United States and Chinese governments have each recently announced import tariffs on certain products originating from the other country. These tariffs, depending upon their ultimate scope, duration and how they are implemented, could negatively impact our business by increasing our costs and by making our products less cost competitive. 
A variety of state, national, foreign, and international laws and regulations apply to the collection, use, retention, protection, disclosure, transfer, and other processing of personal data. These privacy- and data protection-related laws and regulations are evolving, with new or modified laws and regulations proposed and implemented frequently and existing laws and regulations subject to new or different interpretations. Compliance with these laws and regulations can be costly and can delay or impede the development and offering of new products and services.
For example, we previously relied upon adherence to the U.S. Department of Commerce’s Safe Harbor Privacy Principles and compliance with the U.S.-EU Safe Harbor Framework, which we refer to as the Safe Harbor, agreed to by the U.S. Department of Commerce and the EU. The Safe Harbor, which established means for legitimizing the transfer of personal data by U.S. companies from the European Economic Area, or EEA, to the U.S., was invalidated in 2015 by a decision of the European Court of Justice, or the ECJ. Now that the EU and U.S. have implemented a successor privacy framework called the Privacy Shield, we are reviewing and documenting our practices required to obtain certification under the Privacy Shield, in addition to entering into EU Model Contracts with our vendors where appropriate and feasible in anticipation of the possibility that either the Privacy Shield or EU Model Contracts may be legally challenged or voided like Safe Harbor in an uncertain political environment. In addition, the EU General Data Protection Regulation, which went into full effect in May 2018, has resulted in substantial changes to our compliance obligations, including contractual requirements for data transfers outside the EEA, and a significant increase in potential administrative fines for non-compliance. Similarly, the June 2016 approval by voters in the United Kingdom, or U.K., of a referendum to leave the EU could require us to make additional changes to the way we conduct our business and transmit data between the U.S., U.K., EU and the rest of the world.
Our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain the services of executive, engineering, sales and marketing, and support personnel. The supply of highly qualified individuals, in particular engineers in very specialized technical areas, or sales people with specialized industry expertise, is limited and competition for such individuals is intense. None of our officers or key employees is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term. The loss of the services of any of our key employees, the inability to attract or retain personnel in the future or delays in hiring required personnel, engineers and sales people, and the complexity and time involved in replacing or training new employees, could delay the development and introduction of new products, and negatively impact our ability to market, sell, or support our products.
A number of our team members are foreign nationals who rely on visas and entry permits in order to legally work in the United States and other countries. In recent years, the United States has increased the level of scrutiny in granting H-1(B), L-1 and other business visas. In addition, the current U.S. administration has indicated that immigration reform is a priority. Compliance with United States immigration and labor laws could require us to incur additional unexpected labor costs and expenses or could restrain our ability to retain skilled professionals. Any of these restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial conditions.
We are required to test intangible assets with indefinite lives, including goodwill, annually or more frequently if certain circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit and intangible assets below their carrying values. As of June 30, 2018, our goodwill was $3,096.1 million and intangible assets with indefinite lives was $49.0 million. When the carrying value of a reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds its implied fair value of goodwill, or if the carrying amount of an intangible asset with an indefinite life exceeds its fair value, a charge to operations is recorded. Either event would result in incremental expenses for that quarter, which would reduce any earnings or increase any loss for the period in which the impairment was determined to have occurred.
In the past, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $850.0 million due to the underperformance of our Security reporting unit and product rationalizations.
In addition, despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. We generally enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants, vendors, and customers, and generally limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information. However, we cannot assure you that we have entered into such agreements with all parties who may have or have had access to our confidential information or that the agreements we have entered into will not be breached. We cannot guarantee that any of the measures we have taken will prevent misappropriation of our technology.
•changes in general IT spending,
•the imposition of government controls, inclusive of critical infrastructure protection;
•changes or limitations in trade protection laws or other regulatory requirements, which may affect our ability to import or export our products from various countries; 
•laws that restrict sales of products developed or manufactured outside of the country;
•varying and potentially conflicting laws and regulations;
•fluctuations in local economies;
•wage inflation or a tightening of the labor market;
•tax policies that could have a business impact;
•potential import tariffs imposed by the United States and the possibility of reciprocal tariffs by foreign countries;
•data privacy rules and other regulations that affect cross border data flow; and
In addition, the U.K.’s exit from the EU, commonly referred to as Brexit, has caused, and may continue to cause, uncertainty in the global markets. Brexit, if implemented, will take some period of time to complete and could result in regulatory changes that impact our business. For example, changes to the way service providers conduct business and transmit data between the U.K. and the EU could require us to make changes to the way we handle customer data. We will also review the impact of any resulting changes to EU or U.K. law that could affect our operations, such as labor policies, financial planning, product manufacturing, and product distribution. Political and regulatory responses to the vote are still developing and we are in the process of assessing the impact the vote may have on our business as more information becomes available. Nevertheless, because we conduct business in the EU, including the U.K., any of the effects of Brexit, including those we cannot anticipate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows.
Our products are highly technical and complex, are critical to the operation of many networks, and, in the case of our security products, provide and monitor network security and may protect valuable information. Our products have contained and may contain one or more undetected errors, defects, malware, or security vulnerabilities. These errors may arise from hardware or software we produce or procure from third parties. Some errors in our products may only be discovered after a product has been installed and used by end-customers. For example, in December 2015, we disclosed that we identified unauthorized code in ScreenOS that could allow a knowledgeable attacker to gain administrative access to NetScreen devices and to decrypt VPN connections.
The majority of our revenues and expenses are transacted in U.S. Dollars. We also have some transactions that are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the British Pound, Chinese Yuan, Euro, and Indian Rupee related to our sales and service operations outside of the United States. An increase in the value of the U.S. Dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the United States in which we sell in U.S. Dollars. This could negatively affect our ability to meet our customers' pricing expectations in those markets and may result in erosion of gross margin and market share. A weakened U.S. Dollar could increase the cost of local operating expenses and procurement of raw materials to the extent we must purchase components in foreign currencies.
Currently, we hedge currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and periodically hedge anticipated foreign currency cash flows, with the aim of offsetting the impact of currency fluctuations on these exposures. However, hedge activities can be costly, and hedging cannot fully offset all risks, including long-term declines or appreciation in the value of the U.S. Dollar. If our attempts to hedge against these risks are not successful, or if long-term declines or appreciation in the value of the U.S. Dollar persist, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted.
Our ability to successfully offer our products and implement our business plan in a rapidly evolving market depends upon an effective planning and management process. We will need to continue to improve our financial and managerial control and our reporting systems and procedures in order to manage our business effectively in the future. If we fail to effectively improve our systems and processes or we fail to monitor and ensure that these systems and processes are being used correctly, our ability to manage our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be negatively affected.
Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and to disclose in our filing if such controls were unable to provide assurance that a material error would be prevented or detected in a timely manner. We have an ongoing program to review the design of our internal controls framework in keeping with changes in business needs, implement necessary changes to our controls design and test the system and process controls necessary to comply with these requirements. If in the future, our internal controls over financial reporting are determined to be not effective resulting in a material weakness or significant deficiency, investor perceptions regarding the reliability of our financial statements may be adversely affected which could cause a decline in the market price of our stock and otherwise negatively affect our liquidity and financial condition.
The major credit rating agencies routinely evaluate our indebtedness. This evaluation is based on a number of factors, which include financial strength as well as transparency with rating agencies and timeliness of financial reporting. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our credit ratings and failure to do so could adversely affect our cost of funds and related margins, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets.
We may be unable to generate the cash flow to satisfy our expenses, make anticipated capital expenditures or service our debt obligations, including the Notes and the Revolving Credit Facility.
As of June 30, 2018, we have issued $2,150 million in aggregate principal amount of senior notes, which we refer to collectively as the Notes, and had $2,137.7 million in outstanding short-term and long-term debt. In June 2014, we entered into a Credit Agreement with certain institutional lenders that provides for a five year $500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility, which we refer to as the Revolving Credit Facility, with an option to increase the Revolving Credit Facility by up to an additional $200.0 million. The Credit Agreement will terminate in June 2019, at which point all amounts borrowed must be repaid. As of June 30, 2018, no amounts were outstanding under the Credit Agreement.
We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to enable us to satisfy our expenses, make anticipated capital expenditures or service our indebtedness, including the Notes and the Revolving Credit Facility (if drawn upon). Our ability to pay our expenses, satisfy our debt obligations, refinance our debt obligations and fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. Based upon current levels of operations, we believe cash flow from operations and available cash will be adequate for at least the next twelve months to meet our anticipated requirements for working capital, capital expenditures and scheduled payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness, including the Notes and the Revolving Credit Facility (if drawn upon). However, if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to borrow sufficient funds in the future to service our debt, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt (including the Notes) or obtain additional financing. There is no assurance that we will be able to refinance our debt, sell assets or borrow more money on terms acceptable to us, or at all.
•incur liens;
•incur sale and leaseback transactions; and
•consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person.
•maintenance of a leverage ratio no greater than 3.0x and an interest coverage ratio no less than 3.0x
•covenants that limit or restrict the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries to, among other things, grant liens, merge or consolidate, dispose of all or substantially all of its assets, change their accounting or reporting policies, change their business and incur subsidiary indebtedness, in each case subject to customary exceptions for a credit facility of this size and type.
A portion of the transaction consideration we received from the divestiture of our Junos Pulse product portfolio is in the form of a non-contingent seller promissory note and we may not receive the amount owed to us (including accrued interest), including in the time frame contemplated, by the buyer under the note.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014, we completed the sale of our Junos Pulse product portfolio to an affiliate of Siris Capital, a private equity firm, for total consideration of $230.7 million, of which $125.0 million was in the form of an 18-month non-contingent interest-bearing promissory note issued to the Company. On October 2, 2015, we and the issuer of the promissory note agreed to modify the original terms of the note to extend the maturity date from April 1, 2016 to December 31, 2018. On May 1, 2017, we received a principal payment in the amount of $75.0 million and outstanding interest on the note and we and the issuer agreed to further amend the terms of the note with respect to the remaining approximately $58.0 million to, among other things, extend the maturity date from December 31, 2018 to September 30, 2022, provide that interest due can be paid in kind by increasing the outstanding principal amount of the note and subordinate the note to other debt issued by senior lenders. Since a portion of the transaction consideration is in the form of a non-contingent seller promissory note and the note is subordinated to debt issued by senior lenders, there is the risk that we may not receive the amount owed to us (including accrued interest), including in the time frame contemplated, under the note. In the event that the promissory note is not repaid on the terms we contemplate, any collection or restructuring efforts we undertake may be costly and require significant time and attention from our management and there is no guarantee that we will be able to recover the amounts owed to us in full.
Our ability to pay quarterly dividends or achieve our intended capital return policy will be subject to, among other things, our financial position and results of operations, available cash and cash flow, capital and debt service requirements, use of cash for acquisitions and other factors. Any failure to pay or increase future dividends as announced, or a reduction or discontinuation of quarterly dividends could have a material adverse effect on our stock price.
We announced that, beginning in 2017, we intend to target a capital return policy, inclusive of share repurchases and dividends, of approximately 50% of annual free cash flow. Free cash flow is calculated as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. In January 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors approved a new $2 billion buyback authorization, which replaced our prior authorization. In February 2018, as a part of our new buyback authorization, we entered into a $750 million accelerated share repurchase program, and our Board of Directors declared an increase to our quarterly cash dividend to $0.18 per share, which reflects an increase of 80% compared to previous quarterly dividends. Any failure to meet our commitments to return capital to our stockholders could have a material adverse effect on our stock price.
The investment of our cash balance and our investments in government and corporate debt securities and equity securities are subject to risks, which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments.
At June 30, 2018, we had $2,690.4 million in cash and cash equivalents and $840.1 million in short- and long-term investments. We have invested these amounts primarily in asset-backed securities, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, corporate debt securities, foreign government debt securities, money market funds, mutual funds, time deposits, U.S. government agency securities, and U.S. government securities. We also have $88.6 million in other long-term assets for our investments in privately-held companies. Certain of our investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, sovereign debt, and interest rate risks. Our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair value of our publicly traded debt or equity investments is judged to be other-than-temporary. These market risks associated with our investment portfolio may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations.
Our amended and restated bylaws provide that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders’ ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or employees.
Our amended and restated bylaws provide that, unless we consent to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware (or if the Court of Chancery does not have jurisdiction, the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware) is the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf; (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of fiduciary duty owed by any of our current or former directors, officers, or other employees to us or to our stockholders; (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law, our restated certificate of incorporation, or our bylaws; (iv) any action or proceeding asserting a claim as to which Delaware General Corporation Law confers jurisdiction on the Court of Chancery or (v) any action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine. The exclusive forum provisions in our bylaws may limit a stockholder’s ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our current or former directors, officers, or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our current or former directors, officers, and other employees. Alternatively, if a court were to find the exclusive forum provisions contained in our bylaws to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, which could have a material and adverse impact on our business.
Uninsured losses could harm our operating results.
