This new standard replaces the use of forward-looking information to estimate credit losses and requires credit losses for available for sale debt securities to be recorded through an allowance for credit losses rather than a reduction in the amortized cost basis.
Management is currently evaluating the impact of ASU 2016-13 on our consolidated financial statements.
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains “forward-looking” information within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
The forward-looking information may include, among other information, statements concerning our outlook for fiscal year 2020, overall volume and pricing trends, cost reduction and acquisition strategies and their anticipated results, and expectations for research and development and capital expenditures.
Forward-looking statements reflect management’s expectations and are inherently uncertain.
Our expectations and assumptions are expressed in good faith and we believe there is a reasonable basis for them.
Forward-looking statements should be read in context with, and with the understanding of, the various other disclosures concerning the Company and its business made elsewhere in this quarterly report as well as other public reports filed by the Company with the SEC.
Any forward-looking statements by the Company are intended to speak only as of the date thereof.
We do not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statement contained in this quarterly report to reflect new events or circumstances unless and to the extent required by applicable law.
All forward-looking statements contained in this quarterly report constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 21E of the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and, to the extent it may be applicable by way of incorporation of statements contained in this quarterly report by reference or otherwise, Section 27A of the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended, each of which establishes a safe-harbor from private actions for forward-looking statements as defined in those statutes.
