The consolidated financial statements of AVX Corporation and its subsidiaries (“AVX” or the “Company”) include all accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries.
All significant intercompany transactions and accounts have been eliminated.
We have prepared the accompanying financial statements pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) for interim financial reporting.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States have been omitted in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC for interim financial statements.
These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  March 31, 2017.
Accordingly, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  March 31, 2017.
During the three and nine month periods ended  December 31, 2017, there were no significant changes to any critical accounting policies or to the methodology used in determining estimates including those related to investment securities, revenue recognition, inventories, goodwill, intangible assets, property and equipment, and contingencies other than those discussed below related to income taxes.
This was the primary reason for a change in AVX's global tax rate estimate for the fiscal year ending  March 2018, resulting in a blended, estimated global tax rate of 27% for fiscal 2018.
The Act also resulted in an estimated net decrease in the valuation of U.S. net current and deferred tax assets and liabilities of $24.7 million.
This one-time tax is assessed at a 15.5% rate on all such earnings held in cash or liquid asset positions, and at an 8% rate on all other non-liquid asset positions.
This one-time tax was recorded in the results for the quarter ended December 31, 2017, and was approximately $75.6 million, which is payable in installments over an eight-year period beginning in 2018.
Based on our current interpretation of the Act, we made reasonable estimates to record provisional adjustments during our fiscal third quarter ended  December 31, 2017.
In consideration of the Act, the Company has determined that it is no longer necessary to assert that cash and profits generated by our foreign subsidiaries will continue to be reinvested locally indefinitely.
In  February 2016, FASB issued ASU 2016-02, “Leases.” This guidance changes the requirements for inclusion of certain right-of-use assets and the associated lease liabilities to be included in a statement of financial position.
The classification criteria maintains the distinction between finance leases and operating leases.
Regarding finance leases, lessees are required to 1) recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease liability, initially measured at the present value of the lease payments, in the statement of financial position, 2) recognize interest on the lease liability separate from the amortization of the right-of-use asset in the statement of comprehensive income, and 3) classify repayments of the principal portion of the lease liability within financing activities and payments of interest on the lease liability and variable lease payments within operating activities in the statement of cash flows.
Regarding operating leases, lessees are required to 1) recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease liability, initially measured at the present value of the lease payments, in the statement of financial position, 2) recognize a single lease cost, calculated so that the cost of the lease is allocated over the lease term on a generally straight-line basis, and 3) classify all cash payments within operating activities in the statement of cash flows.
In  March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-09, “Compensation — Stock Compensation.” The standard is intended to simplify several areas of accounting for share-based compensation arrangements, including the income tax impact, classification on the statement of cash flows and forfeitures.
The standard became effective for the interim reporting period ending  June 30, 2017 and has not had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
In  January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-04, “Intangibles – Goodwill and Other.” This guidance simplifies how an entity is required to test goodwill for impairment by eliminating Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test.
Step 2 measures a goodwill impairment loss by comparing the implied fair value of a reporting unit’s goodwill with the carrying amount of goodwill.
Instead, an entity should perform its annual, or interim, goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount and recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value; however, the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.
This ASU also removes the requirements for any reporting unit with a zero or negative carrying amount to perform a qualitative assessment, and if it fails that qualitative test to perform Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test.
Companies are to apply the standard on a prospective basis.
The adoption of this standard has not had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
In  August 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-12, “Derivatives and Hedging.” The standard aims to align the designation and measurement guidance for qualifying hedging relationships and the presentation of hedge results for cash flow and fair value hedge accounting with risk management activities.
Management is currently evaluating the impact this guidance will have on our consolidated financial statements.
The goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes.
Therefore, final amounts recorded  may differ from information presented pending further review of the acquired business.
Basic earnings per share are computed by dividing net earnings by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding for the period.
Diluted earnings per share are computed by dividing net earnings by the sum of (a) the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period and (b) the dilutive effect of potential common stock equivalents during the period.
Equity awards are the only common stock equivalents currently used in our calculation and are computed using the treasury stock method.
Charges related to allowances for doubtful accounts are charged to selling, general and administrative expenses.
Charges related to stock rotation, ship from stock and debit, sales returns, and sales discounts are reported as deductions from revenue.
During the three and nine month periods ended  December 31, 2016 and 2017, there have been no transfers of assets or liabilities between levels within the fair value hierarchy.
The following describes valuation techniques used to appropriately value our assets held in the non-qualified deferred compensation plan and derivatives.
Assets valued using Level 1 and Level 2 inputs in the table above represent assets from our non-qualified deferred compensation program.
The funds in the non-qualified deferred compensation program are valued based on the number of shares in the funds using a price per share traded in an active market.
Investments are considered to be impaired when a decline in fair value is judged to be other-than-temporary.
If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, among other factors, we evaluate general market conditions, the duration and extent to which the fair value is less than cost, and whether or not we expect to recover the security's entire amortized cost.
Once a decline in fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary, an impairment charge is recorded and a new cost basis in the investment is established.
We primarily use forward contracts, with maturities generally less than four months, designated as cash flow hedges, to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted transactions related to purchase commitments and sales, denominated in various currencies.
We also use derivatives not designated as hedging instruments to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposures.
These derivatives are used to offset currency changes in the fair value of the hedged assets and liabilities.
Fair values for all of our derivative financial instruments are valued by adjusting the market spot rate by forward points, based on the date of the contract.
The spot rates and forward points used are an average rate from an actively traded market.
At  March 31, 2017 and  December 31, 2017, all of our forward contracts are valued using Level 2 measurements.
At  March 31, 2017 and  December 31, 2017, we classified investments in debt securities and time deposits as held-to-maturity securities.
Our long-term and short-term investment securities are accounted for as held-to-maturity securities and are carried at amortized cost.
We have the ability and intent to hold these investments until maturity.
All income generated from the held-to-maturity securities investments are recorded as interest income.
The amortized cost and estimated fair value of held-to-maturity investments at  December 31, 2017, by contractual maturity, are shown below.
The estimated fair value of these investments are based on valuation inputs that include benchmark yields, reported trades, broker and dealer quotes, issuer spreads, two-sided markets, benchmark securities, bids, offers, and reference data, which are Level 2 inputs in the fair value hierarchy.
Actual maturities  may differ from contractual maturities because issuers  may have the right to call or prepay obligations without call or prepayment penalties.
We have been identified by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”), state governmental agencies or other private parties as a potentially responsible party (“PRP”) under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), or equivalent state or local laws, for clean-up and response costs associated with certain sites at which remediation is required with respect to prior contamination.
Because CERCLA or such state statutes authorize joint and several liability, the EPA or state regulatory authorities could seek to recover all clean-up costs from any one of the PRPs at a site despite the involvement of other PRPs.
At certain sites, financially responsible PRPs other than AVX also are, or have been, involved in site investigation and clean-up activities.
We believe that liability resulting from these sites will be apportioned between AVX and other PRPs.
To resolve our liability at the sites at which we have been named a PRP, we have entered into various administrative orders and consent decrees with federal and state regulatory agencies governing the timing and nature of investigation and remediation.
As is customary, the orders and decrees regarding sites where the PRPs are not themselves implementing the chosen remedy contain provisions allowing the EPA to reopen the agreement and seek additional amounts from settling PRPs in the event that certain contingencies occur, such as the discovery of significant new information about site conditions.
The Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection has jurisdiction over the balance of the environmental remediation at the Site.
AVX has submitted its proposed remedy, but until the state has approved such proposal, AVX cannot determine if additional groundwater and soil remediation will be required, if substantial material will have to be disposed of offsite, or if additional remediation techniques will be required, any of which could result in a more extensive and costly plan of remediation.
Further, the Site and the remediation  may be subject to additional scrutiny under other statutory procedures which could also add to the cost of remediation.
Until all parties agree and remediation is complete, we cannot be certain there will be no additional cost relating to the Site.
We had total reserves of approximately $19,181 and $18,773 at  March 31, 2017 and  December 31, 2017, respectively, related to various environmental matters and sites, including those discussed above.
These reserves are classified in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as $3,892 and $3,484 in accrued expenses at  March 31, 2017 and  December 31, 2017, respectively, and $15,289 in other non-current liabilities at both  March 31, 2017 and  December 31, 2017.
The amounts recorded for identified environmental liabilities are based on estimates.
Periodically we review amounts recorded and adjust them to reflect additional legal and technical information that becomes available.
Uncertainties about the status of laws, regulations, regulatory actions, technology, and information related to individual sites make it difficult to develop an estimate of the reasonably possible aggregate environmental remediation exposure.
Accordingly, these costs could differ from our current estimates.
This Director’s Order follows a draft order issued on  November 4, 2015.
AVX has taken the position that any liability of Aerovox Canada for such site under the laws of Canada cannot be imposed on AVX.
At present, it is unclear whether the MoE will seek to enforce such Canadian order against AVX, and whether, in the event it does so, AVX will have any liability under applicable law.
AVX intends to contest any such course of action that  may be taken by the MoE.
We also operate, or did at one time, on other sites that  may have potential future environmental issues as a result of activities at sites during AVX’s long history of manufacturing operations or prior to the start of operations by AVX.
A separate account receivable is recorded for any indemnified costs.
On  April 25, 2013, AVX was named as a defendant in a patent infringement case filed in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware captioned Greatbatch, Inc. v. AVX Corporation.
This case alleged that certain AVX products infringe on one or more of six Greatbatch patents.
The results of the third trial have not yet been issued by the District Judge.
AVX is continuing to litigate the rest of the case.
On  September 2, 2014, a subsidiary of AVX, American Technical Ceramics (“ATC”), was named as a defendant in a patent infringement case filed in the United States District Court of the Southern District of California captioned Presidio Components, Inc. v. American Technical Ceramics Corp.
This case alleged that certain ATC products infringe on a Presidio patent.
On  April 18, 2016, the jury returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiff and found damages to Presidio.
On  August 17, 2016, the court issued a permanent injunction prohibiting ATC from manufacturing or selling the related products after  November 16, 2016.
Subsequently, on  October 21, 2016, the Federal Circuit Court granted AVX’s request for a stay of the permanent injunction whereby ATC was allowed to continue to sell the disputed product until  March 17, 2017 to anyone who was a customer prior to  June 17, 2016.
In  December, 2017, a panel of the Federal Circuit vacated the damage award to Presidio, vacated the injunction, and remanded the case for further proceedings to determine damages limited to “reasonable royalties.”
We had total reserves of $74,559 and $74,538 plus accrued interest in accrued expenses as of  March 31, 2017 and  December 31, 2017, respectively, with respect to the two intellectual property cases discussed above.
The amounts recorded are based on estimated outcomes.
Amounts recorded are reviewed periodically and adjusted to reflect additional information that becomes available.
Accordingly, these costs could differ from our current estimates.
During calendar year 2014, AVX was named as a co-defendant in a series of cases filed in the United States and in the Canadian provinces of Quebec, Ontario, British Columbia, Saskatchewan and Manitoba alleging violations of United States, state and Canadian antitrust laws asserting that AVX and numerous other companies were participants in alleged price-fixing in the capacitor market.
The cases in the United States were consolidated into the Northern District of California on  October 2, 2014.
Some plaintiffs have broken off from the United States class action and filed actions on their own.
These cases are still in progress.
AVX believes it has meritorious defenses and intends to vigorously defend the cases.
Comprehensive income (loss) represents changes in equity during a period except those resulting from investments by and distributions to shareholders.
The specific components include net income, pension liability and other post-retirement benefit adjustments, deferred gains and losses resulting from foreign currency translation adjustments and unrealized gains and losses on qualified foreign currency cash flow hedges.
Amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into net income (loss) include those that pertain to the Company’s pension and postretirement benefit plans and realized gains and losses on derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges.
Please see Note 11 for additional information related to the amortization of prior service cost and the recognized actuarial losses, which amounts are reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into net income (loss) and are included in selling, general and administrative expenses in the statement of operations during the three and nine month periods ended  December 31, 2016 and 2017.
Please see Note 12 for additional information related to realized gains and losses on derivative instruments reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into net income (loss) during the three and nine month periods ended  December 31, 2016 and 2017.
There are no intersegment revenues.
Cash, accounts receivable, investments in securities, and certain other assets, which are centrally managed, are not readily allocable to operating segments.
The following geographic data is based upon net sales generated by operations located within particular geographic areas.
Substantially all of the sales in the Americas region were generated in the United States.
Based on current actuarial computations, during the nine months ended  December 31, 2017, we made contributions of $4,648 to the international plans.
We expect to make additional contributions of approximately $1,600 to the international plans over the remainder of fiscal 2018.
We made $261 in contributions to the U.S. plans during the nine months ended  December 31, 2017.
We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations in the normal course of business.
We use derivative instruments (forward contracts) to hedge certain foreign currency exposures as part of our risk management strategy.
The objective is to offset gains and losses resulting from these exposures with gains and losses on the forward contracts used to hedge them, thereby reducing volatility of earnings or protecting fair values of assets and liabilities.
We do not enter into any trading or speculative positions with regard to derivative instruments.
We primarily use forward contracts, with maturities less than four months, to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted transactions related to purchase commitments and sales, denominated in various currencies.
These derivative instruments are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges.
For these derivatives designated as cash flow hedging instruments, during the three and nine month periods ended  December 31, 2017, net pre-tax losses of $(130) and $(943), respectively, were recognized in other comprehensive income.
In addition, during the three and nine month periods ended  December 31, 2017, net pre-tax gains (losses) of $ (805) and $1,608, respectively, were reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into cost of sales (for hedging purchases), and net pretax gains (losses) of $244 and $(1,774), respectively, were reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into sales (for hedging sales) in the accompanying statement of operations.
These hedging instruments are used to offset foreign currency changes in the fair values of the underlying assets and liabilities.
The gains and losses on these foreign currency forward contracts are recognized in other income in the same period as the remeasurement gains and losses of the related foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities and thus naturally offset these gains and losses.
At  March 31, 2017 and  December 31, 2017, we had the following forward contracts that were entered into to hedge against these exposures.
For these derivatives not designated as cash flow hedging instruments during the three and nine month periods ended  December 31, 2017, gains (losses) of $101 and $(777), respectively on hedging contracts were recognized in other income, along with the approximately $(1,277) and $(2,601), respectively, in exchange losses that were recognized in other income in the accompanying statement of operations.
At  March 31, 2017 and  December 31, 2017, we had outstanding foreign exchange contracts with notional amounts totaling $193,156 and $182,680, respectively, denominated primarily in Euros, Czech Korunas, British Pounds, and Japanese Yen.
On  February 7, 2018, the Board of Directors of the Company declared a $0.115 dividend per share of common stock with respect to the quarter ended  December 31, 2017.
The dividend will be paid to stockholders of record on  February 23, 2018 and will be disbursed on  March 5, 2018.
   ITEM 2.
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains “forward-looking” information within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements reflect management’s expectations and are inherently uncertain.
We do not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statement contained in this quarterly report to reflect new events or circumstances unless and to the extent required by applicable law.
All forward-looking statements contained in this quarterly report constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 21E of the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and, to the extent it may be applicable by way of incorporation of statements contained in this quarterly report by reference or otherwise, Section 27A of the United States Securities Act of 1933, each of which establishes a safe-harbor from private actions for forward-looking statements as defined in those statutes.
Accordingly, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017.
Our customers are multi-national original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, independent electronic component distributors, and electronic manufacturing service providers, or EMSs.
We coordinate our sales, marketing, and manufacturing organizations by strategic customer account and globally by region.
Our net loss for the three months ended December 31, 2017 was $93.2 million, or $0.55 per share, compared to net income of $35.5 million, or $0.21 per share, for the three months ended December 31, 2016.
Passive Components sales decreased $1.5 million, or 0.6% to $229.5 million in the three month period ended December 31, 2017 compared to sales of $231.0 million during the same period last year.
KDP and KCD Resale sales decreased $5.7 million, or 7.8%, to $68.2 million in the three month period ended December 31, 2017 compared to $73.9 million during the same period last year.
This decrease is primarily a result of the gradual phase out of KDP and KCD Resale products resulting from the previously announced decision by Kyocera to market its manufactured passive component and interconnect products globally using Kyocera’s sales force rather than continuing to have AVX resell such products starting January 1, 2018.
Income from operations was $45.3 million in the three month period ended December 31, 2017 compared to $50.9 million in the three month period ended December 31, 2016.
This decrease was a result of the factors described above.
On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Act”) was enacted in the U.S.
This was the primary reason for a change in AVX’s global tax rate estimate for the fiscal year ending March 2018, resulting in a blended estimated global tax rate of 27% for fiscal 2018.
The transition is accompanied by a one-time tax, effective December 31, 2017, on all U.S.-based corporate groups’ accumulated foreign earnings as yet untaxed by the U.S., assessed at a 15.5% rate on all such earnings held in cash or liquid asset positions and at an 8% rate on all other non-liquid asset positions.
This estimated one-time tax was recorded in the results for the quarter ended December 31, 2017, and was approximately $75.6 million, which is payable in installments over an eight-year period beginning in 2018.
In addition, on December 21, 2017, the French Parliament enacted the Finance Law for 2018, which reduces France’s statutory corporate tax rate from its present 33.33% to 25%, in stages over the next five years.
This rate decrease resulted in an estimated net decrease in AVX’s French net deferred tax assets and liabilities of $14.3 million, which is also reflected as a discrete charge in this quarter’s tax provision.
As a result of the factors discussed above, net loss for the three month period ended December 31, 2017 was $93.2 million compared to net income of $35.5 million for the same three month period last year.
Our net loss for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 was $26.9 million, or $0.16 per share, compared to net income of $91.9 million, or $0.55 per share, for the nine months ended December 31, 2016.
The table below represents product group revenues for the nine months ended December 31, 2016 and 2017.
Passive Components sales increased $33.3 million, or 5.1% to $689.4 million in the nine month period ended December 31, 2017 compared to sales of $656.1 million during the same nine month period last year.
KDP and KCD Resale sales decreased $4.8 million, or 2.2%, to $212.0 million in the nine month period ended December 31, 2017 compared to $216.8 million during the same period last year.
This decrease is primarily a result of the gradual phase out of KDP and KCD Resale products resulting from the previously announced decision by Kyocera to market its manufactured passive component and interconnect products globally using Kyocera’s sales force rather than continuing to have AVX resell such products starting January 1, 2018.
Our sales to independent electronic distributor customers represented 45.0% of total sales for the nine month period ended December 31, 2017, compared to 45.1% for the nine month period ended December 31, 2016.
Overall, distributor sales activity increased when compared to the same nine month period last year as distributors increased order activity during the past several quarters in response to good end-market demand and extended product delivery lead times during the nine month period ended December 31, 2017.
Such allowance charges were $22.6 million, or 4.5% of gross sales to distributor customers, for the nine month period ended December 31, 2017, and $19.6 million, or 4.4% of gross sales to distributor customers, for the nine month period ended December 31, 2016.
Applications under such programs for the nine month period ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 were approximately $21.9 million and $16.4 million, respectively.
During the nine month period ended December 31, 2016, we recorded a $3.6 million charge related to estimated environmental remediation costs resulting from legacy environmental issues at an inactive property.
We did not have any similar charges in the nine month period ended December 31, 2017.
Income from operations was $132.5 million in the nine month period ended December 31, 2017 compared to $118.5 million in the nine month period ended December 31, 2016.
This increase was a result of the factors described above.
This decrease was primarily due to higher foreign exchange gains resulting from currency fluctuations and a gain on the sale of an idle facility of $1.6 million for the nine month period ended December 31, 2016, partially offset by interest of $2.3 million related to refunded income taxes in the prior quarter ended September 30, 2017.
On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was enacted in the U.S.
The transition is accompanied by a one-time tax, effective December 31, 2017, on all U.S.-based corporate groups’ accumulated foreign earnings as yet untaxed by the U.S., assessed at a 15.5% rate on all such earnings held in cash or liquid asset positions and at an 8% rate on all other non-liquid asset positions.
This estimated one-time tax was recorded in the results for the quarter ended December 31, 2017, and was approximately $75.6 million, which is payable in eight annual installments over an eight-year period beginning in 2018.
In addition, on December 21, 2017, the French Parliament enacted the Finance Law for 2018, which reduces France’s statutory corporate tax rate from its present 33.33% to 25%, in stages over the next five years.
This rate decrease resulted in an estimated net decrease in AVX’s French net deferred tax assets and liabilities of $14.3 million, which is also reflected as a discrete charge in this quarter’s tax provision.
As a result of the factors discussed above, net loss for the nine month period ended December 31, 2017 was $26.9 million compared to net income of $91.9 million for the same nine month period last year.
With uncertain global geopolitical and economic conditions, it is difficult to quantify expectations for the remainder of fiscal 2018.
We also continue to focus on process improvements and enhanced production capabilities in conjunction with our focus on the sales of value-added electronic components to support today’s advanced electronic devices.
Kyocera notified AVX pursuant to the Products Supply and Distribution Agreement in December 2016 of its intent, effective January 1, 2018, to market its manufactured passive component and interconnect products globally using Kyocera’s sales force rather than continuing to have AVX resell such products in the Americas, Europe and Asia.
Kyocera will pay commissions to AVX on sales by Kyocera, in the applicable territories, of products designed into customer applications by AVX prior to January 1, 2018 of 2.0% in calendar year 2018, 1.5% in calendar year 2019, and 1.0% in calendar year 2020.
Sales of Kyocera resale products were $68.2 million and $212.0 million and the related operating profit was $4.7 million and $14.0 million for the three and nine month periods ended December 31, 2017.
AVX notified Kyocera pursuant to the Products Supply and Distribution Agreement in February 2017 of its intent, effective April 1, 2018, to market its manufactured products in Japan using AVX’s sales force rather than continuing to have Kyocera resell such products in this territory.
AVX will pay commissions to Kyocera on sales by AVX, in the applicable territory, of products designed into customer applications by Kyocera prior to April 1, 2018 of 2.0% in fiscal year 2019, 1.5% in fiscal year 2020, and 1.0% in fiscal year 2021.
Sales of AVX resale products by Kyocera were $6.3 million and $16.4 million for the three and nine month periods ended December 31, 2017.
AVX has reviewed and continues to monitor the impact of Brexit.
Although it is unknown what those terms will be, it is possible that there will be greater restrictions on imports and exports between the U.K. and E.U.
A fluctuation of currency exchange rates may expose us to gains and losses on non-U.S. currency transactions.
Dollars for our financial statements.
Our liquidity needs arise primarily from working capital requirements, dividends, and capital expenditures.
Historically, we have satisfied our liquidity requirements through funds from operations, investment income from cash and investments in securities, and cash on hand.
As of December 31, 2017, we had a current ratio of 6.6 to 1, $1.0 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and investments in securities, $2.2 billion of stockholders’ equity, and no borrowings.
On December 22, 2017, the Act was enacted in the U.S.
The transition is accompanied by a one-time tax, effective December 31, 2017, on all U.S.-based corporate groups’ accumulated foreign earnings as yet untaxed by the U.S., assessed at a 15.5% rate on all such earnings held in cash or liquid asset positions and at an 8% rate on all other non-liquid asset positions.
This tax, approximately $75.6 million, is payable in installments over an eight-year period beginning in 2018.
As a result of the Act we will have greater flexibility to redirect our global cash resources where they are needed.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $161.0 million in the nine month period ended December 31, 2017 compared to $160.3 million of cash provided by operating activities in the nine month period ended December 31, 2016.
Purchases of property and equipment were $65.2 million in the nine month period ended December 31, 2017 and $45.6 million in the nine month period ended December 31, 2016.
Expenditures in the current quarter were primarily made in connection with strategic building expansion and equipment purchase activities in our Fountain Inn, South Carolina facilities and our plants in the Czech Republic, Germany, El Salvador, and Malaysia.
We expect to incur total capital expenditures of approximately $80.0 million in fiscal 2018.
The actual amount of capital expenditures will depend upon the outlook for end-market demand and timing of capital projects.
Historically, our funding is internally generated through operations, investment income from cash, cash equivalents, and investments in securities and cash on hand.
We have assessed the condition of our financial resources and our current business and believe that, based on our financial condition as of December 31, 2017, cash on hand and cash expected to be generated from operating activities and investment income from cash, cash equivalents, and investments in securities will be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated financing needs for working capital, capital expenditures, environmental clean-up costs, expenses related to ongoing litigation, pension plan funding, research, development, and engineering expenses, the acquisition of Ethertronics, Inc., and dividend payments or stock repurchases to be made during the next twelve months.
The delivery contracts represent routine purchase orders for delivery within three months and payment is due upon receipt.
As of December 31, 2017, we did not have any significant delivery contracts outstanding.
Accordingly, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017.
Accordingly, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017.
Certain manufacturing and operating costs denominated in local currencies are incurred in Europe, Asia, Mexico, and Central and South America.
Additionally, purchases of resale products from Kyocera may be denominated in Yen.
In order to minimize the effect of movements in currency exchange rates, we periodically enter into forward exchange contracts to hedge external and intercompany foreign currency transactions.
We do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Accordingly, we have hedging commitments to cover a portion of our exchange risk on purchases, operating expenses, and sales.
There have been no material net changes in our exposure to foreign currency exchange rates as reflected in Part II, Item 7A “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017.
See Note 12 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion of derivative financial instruments.
As of the end of the period covered in this report, we carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures, as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Exchange Act.
Please refer to Note 8, “Commitments and Contingencies,” in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I, Item 1 to this Form 10-Q for a discussion of our involvement in certain environmental and other pending legal proceedings.
There have been no material changes to the risk factors affecting the company as reported in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017.
On October 17, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized the repurchase of 5,000,000 shares of our common stock from time to time in the open market.
The repurchased shares are held as treasury stock and are available for general corporate purposes.
We did not make any repurchases in the three month period ended December 31, 2017.
As of December 31, 2017, there were 3,067,074 shares that may yet be repurchased under this program.
