The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Scientific Industries, Inc., Altamira Instruments, Inc. (“Altamira”), a Delaware corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary, and Scientific Bioprocessing, Inc. (“SBI”), a Delaware corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary, and Scientific Packaging Industries, Inc., an inactive wholly-owned subsidiary (all collectively referred to as the “Company”).
All material intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
The adoption of this ASU had no impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
In November 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-18, “Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230)”, requiring that the statement of cash flows explain the change in the total cash, cash equivalents, and amounts generally described as restricted cash or restricted cash equivalents.
The adoption of this ASU had no impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
Customer advances were reclassified to contract liabilities as of September 30, and June 30, 2018.
All revenue is recognized when the Company satisfies its performance obligation(s) under the contract (either implicit or explicit) by transferring the promised product or service to its customer either when (or as) its customer obtains control of the product or service.
The Company calculated the fair value of its Level 1 and 2 instruments based on the exchange traded price of similar or identical instruments where available or based on other observable instruments.
The Company has not changed its valuation techniques in measuring the fair value of any financial assets and liabilities during the period.
The measurement is based on significant inputs that are not observable in the market, therefore, the Company classifies this liability as Level 3 in the following tables.
Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net assets acquired in connection with the Company’s acquisitions.
Total amortization expense was $61,000 and $61,100 for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Item 2.
Overview.
The Company reflected income before tax expense of $177,500 for the three months ended September 30, 2018 compared to a loss before income tax benefit of $306,500 for the three months ended September 30, 2017, primarily the result of increased revenues across all business segments.