fls.txt
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and will adopt the standard on the first day of the Company’s 2021 fiscal year.


item1.txt
Financial Statements.
In management’s opinion, the accompanying interim Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company include all adjustments, consisting only of normal, recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s financial position for the interim periods presented.
In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU No.
2016-13, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments which amends the impairment model by requiring entities to use a forward-looking approach based on expected losses rather than incurred losses to estimate credit losses on certain types of financial instruments, including trade receivables.
This ASU is effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2019.
Effective April 1, 2019, the Company adopted the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No.
2016-02, Leases.
The Company adopted this standard on the first day of the 2020 fiscal year, using a modified retrospective approach.
Prior periods were not adjusted to reflect this change.
Effective April 1, 2019, the Company adopted the FASB issued ASU No.
Previously, these payments were classified as operating expenses.
Adoption of this standard did not have an impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company, included herein.
The PSUs cancelled during fiscal 2020 related to the fiscal 2019 grant of PSUs, which also had a one-year measurement period (fiscal 2019).


item2.txt
Item 2.
Our first quarter fiscal 2020 revenue decreased by 13.4% compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
The decline in our commercial segment revenue was driven by a decrease in our public carrier market due to the project-oriented nature of this business.
Several large customers either adjusted their forecasts or pushed out their product requirements from the first fiscal quarter into the remainder of the year.
Our first quarter fiscal year 2020 gross profit decreased by 17.7%, compared to the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.
The decrease in gross profit was primarily the result of the decrease in revenue discussed above.
The decrease is related to decreased compensation, benefits, and rewards expense.
The Company also incurred a restructuring charge related to severance expenses.
In addition, many manufacturers sell direct.
Total Revenues.
The decline in the commercial segment was primarily due to the project-oriented nature of this business.
Several large customers adjusted their forecasts or pushed out their product requirements from the first fiscal quarter into the remainder of the fiscal year.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 5.


part2.txt
Legal Proceedings.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.


