fls.txt



item1.txt
Financial Statements.
In management’s opinion, the accompanying interim Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company include all adjustments, consisting only of normal, recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s financial position for the interim periods presented.
The results of operations presented in the accompanying interim Consolidated Financial Statements are not necessarily representative of operations for an entire year.
In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No.
2016-02, Leases.
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
Previously, these payments were classified as operating expenses.
The Company does not expect that the adoption of this new standard, on the first day of the Company’s 2020 fiscal year, will have a material impact on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Company has changed the presentation of its returns reserve.
The amount of expected returns are now recognized as a refund liability within the Accrued Expenses line item of the balance sheet.
This liability represents the obligation to return customer consideration.
The value of the expected goods returned by customers is now recognized as a return asset within the inventory line item of the balance sheet.
The return asset value is initially measured at the former carrying amount in inventory, less any expected costs to recover the goods.
Prior periods were not adjusted to reflect this change.


item2.txt
Item 2.
Our first quarter fiscal 2019 revenue increased by 7.8% compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
For the retail segment, year over year, revenue declined due, in part, to the timing of two Samsung Galaxy phone launches.
The prior launch occurred in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, while the most recent launch instead occurred in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2018, contributing to a decline in year over year first quarter revenue.
On the product side, revenue increased in our base station infrastructure and our installation, test and maintenance categories by 25.8% and 6.3%, respectively.
Revenue decreased in our network systems and our mobile device accessories categories by 4.4% and 7.4%, respectively, for the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to the same quarter last year.
Our first quarter fiscal year 2019 gross profit increased by 5.3%, compared to the first quarter of fiscal year 2018.
The new tax law that went into effect in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 resulted in a significantly lower tax rate in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
In addition, many manufacturers sell direct.
We believe, however, that our strength in service, the breadth and depth of our product offering, our information technology system, industry experience and knowledge, and our large customer base and purchasing relationships with approximately 440 manufacturers, provide us with a significant competitive advantage over new entrants to the marketplace.
Total Revenues.


item3.txt
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.


item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.


