fls.txt



item1.txt
Financial Statements.
In management’s opinion, the accompanying interim consolidated financial statements of the Company include all adjustments, consisting only of normal, recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s financial position for the interim periods presented.
The results of operations presented in the accompanying interim consolidated financial statements are not necessarily representative of operations for an entire year.
For the revenue streams assessed, the Company does not anticipate a material impact in the timing or amount of revenue recognized.
The Company may be required to adjust its accounting for its returns reserve.
Based on this ongoing assessment, the Company intends to adopt the standard on a modified retrospective basis on April 2, 2018, the first day of fiscal 2019.
In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No.
2016-02, Leases.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
In August 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No.
Previously, these payments were classified as operating expenses.
In March 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No.
2016-09, Compensation – Stock Compensation.


item2.txt
Item 2.
Our third quarter fiscal 2018 revenue decreased by 0.6% compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2017.
The decline in our public carrier market is primarily due to timing-related order delays.
For the retail segment, revenue declined due, in part, to the timing of the iPhone launch.
increased in our base station infrastructure category by 9.8%.
Revenue decreased in our network systems; our installation, test and maintenance; and our mobile device accessories categories by 4.8%, 3.9% and 7.4%, respectively, for the third quarter of fiscal 2018, compared to the same quarter last year.
Our third quarter fiscal year 2018 gross profit decreased by 1.2%, compared to the third quarter of fiscal year 2017.
The new tax law signed in December also provided a benefit of approximately $0.3 million in this year’s third quarter.
In addition, many manufacturers sell direct.
We believe, however, that our strength in service, the breadth and depth of our product offering, our information technology system, industry experience and knowledge, and our large customer base and purchasing relationships with approximately 450 manufacturers, provide us with a significant competitive advantage over new entrants to the marketplace.
Total Revenues.
Revenues for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 decreased 0.6% compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017.
Within our commercial segment, revenues in our government market increased by 29.5%.


item3.txt
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.


item4.txt
Item 5.


part2.txt
Legal Proceedings.
None.


