Item 2 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 



BUSINESS DESCRIPTION AND OVERVIEW 





Municipal water, the largest sales category, is comprised of either mechanical or static (ultrasonic) water meters along with the related radio and software technologies and services used by municipal water utilities as the basis for generating their water and wastewater revenues. The largest geographic market for the Company’s municipal water products is North America, primarily the United States, because most of the Company's meters are designed and manufactured to conform to standards promulgated by the American Water Works Association. The majority of water meters sold by the Company continue to be mechanical in nature; however, ultrasonic meters are gaining in penetration due to a variety of factors, including their ability to maintain near absolute measurement accuracy over their useful life. Providing ultrasonic water meter technology, combined with advanced radio technology, provides the Company with the opportunity to sell into other geographical markets, for example, the Middle East and Europe.  





Municipal water meters (both residential and commercial) are generally classified as either manually read meters or remotely read meters via radio technology. A manually read meter consists of a water meter and a register that provides a visual totalized meter reading. Meters equipped with radio technology (endpoints) receive flow measurement data from battery-powered encoder registers attached to the water meter, which is encrypted and transmitted via radio frequency to a receiver that collects and formats the data appropriately for water utility usage and billing systems. These remotely read systems are classified as either automatic meter reading (AMR) systems, where a vehicle equipped for meter reading purposes, including a radio receiver, computer and reading software, collects the data from utilities’ meters; or advanced metering infrastructure (AMI) systems, where data is gathered utilizing a network (either fixed or cellular) of data collectors or gateway receivers that are able to receive radio data transmission from the utilities’ meters. AMI systems eliminate the need for utility personnel to drive through service territories to collect data from the meters. These systems provide the utilities with more frequent and diverse data from their meters at specified intervals. 



The ORION® branded family of radio endpoints provides water utilities with a range of industry-leading options for meter reading. These include ORION Migratable (ME) for AMR meter reading, ORION (SE) for traditional fixed network applications, and ORION Cellular for an infrastructure-free meter reading solution. ORION Migratable makes the migration to fixed network easier for utilities that prefer to start with mobile reading and later adopt fixed network communications, allowing utilities to choose a solution for their current needs and be positioned for their future operational changes. ORION Cellular eliminates the need for utility-owned fixed network infrastructure, allows for gradual or full deployment, and decreases ongoing maintenance. 



Critical to the water metering ecosystem is information and analytics. The Company’s BEACON Advanced Metering Analytics (AMA) software suite improves the utilities’ visibility of their water and water usage. BEACON AMA is a secure, cloud-hosted software suite that includes a customizable dashboard, and has the ability to establish alerts for specific conditions. It also allows for consumer engagement tools that permit end water users (such as homeowners) to view and manage their water usage activity. Benefits to the utility include improved customer service, increased visibility through faster leak detection, the ability to promote and quantify the effects of its water conservation efforts, and easier compliance reporting. 



Water meter replacement and the adoption and deployment of new technology comprise the majority of water meter product sales, including radio products. To a much lesser extent, housing starts also contribute to the new product sales base. Over the last decade, there has been a growing trend in the conversion from manually read water meters to meters with radio technology. This conversion rate is accelerating, with the Company estimating that approximately 60% of water meters installed in the United States have been converted to a radio solution technology. 





Table of Contents  



The Company’s net sales and corresponding net earnings depend on unit volume and product mix, with the Company generally earning higher average selling prices and margins on meters equipped with radio technology, and higher margins on ultrasonic compared to mechanical meters. The Company’s proprietary radio products (i.e. ORION) generally result in higher margins than the remarketed, non-proprietary technology products. The Company also sells registers and endpoints separately to customers who wish to upgrade their existing meters in the field.  



Flow instrumentation products are used in flow measurement and control applications across a broad industrial spectrum, occasionally leveraging the same technologies used in the municipal water category. Specialized communication protocols that control the entire flow measurement process and mandatory certifications drive these markets. The Company provides both standard and customized flow instrumentation solutions. 



The industries served by the Company’s flow instrumentation products face accelerating demands to contain costs, reduce product variability, and meet ever-changing safety, regulatory and sustainability requirements. To address these challenges, customers must reap more value from every component in their systems. This system-wide scrutiny has heightened the focus on flow instrumentation in industrial process, manufacturing, commercial fluid, building automation and precision engineering applications where flow measurement and control are critical. 



A leader in both mechanical and static (ultrasonic) flow metering technologies for industrial markets, the Company offers one of the broadest flow measurement, control and communication portfolios in the market. This portfolio carries respected brand names including Recordall®, Hedland®, Dynasonics®, Blancett®, and Research Control®, and includes eight of the ten major flow meter technologies. Customers rely on the Company for application-specific solutions that deliver accurate, timely and dependable flow data and control essential for product quality, cost control, safer operations, regulatory compliance and more sustainable operations. 



The Company's products are sold throughout the world through employees, resellers and representatives. Depending on the customer mix, there can be a moderate seasonal impact on sales, primarily relating to higher sales of certain municipal water products during the spring and summer months. No single customer accounts for more than 10% of the Company's sales.  



Business Trends 





Increasingly, customers in the water utility market are interested in more frequent and diverse data collection. Specifically, AMI technology enables water utilities to capture readings from each meter at more frequent and variable intervals. There are approximately 52,000 water utilities in the United States and the Company estimates that approximately 60% of them have converted to a radio solution. The Company believes it is well positioned to meet this continuing conversion trend with its comprehensive radio and software solutions. 



In addition, the water utility industry is beginning the conversion from mechanical to static (ultrasonic) meters. Ultrasonic water metering maintains measurement accuracy over the life of the meter, reducing a utility’s non-revenue water. The Company has nearly a decade of proven reliability in the market with its ultrasonic meters and will be launching its next generation of ultrasonic metering with its D-Flow technology in 2019, which the Company believes will increase its competitive differentiation. While ultrasonic technology migration in North America could affect the competitive landscape, it also opens up further geographic penetration opportunities for the Company as previously described. 





Table of Contents  





Acquisition 



On April 2, 2018, the Company acquired 100% of the outstanding stock of IMS of Odessa, Florida, which was one of the Company's distributors serving Florida. 



The total purchase consideration was approximately $12.0 million, which included $7.7 million in cash, a $0.3 million working capital adjustment, a balance sheet holdback of $0.7 million and settlement of $3.3 million of pre-existing Company receivables. The working capital adjustment was paid in the second quarter of 2018 and the balance sheet holdback was settled in the second quarter of 2019. The Company's allocation of the purchase price at June 30, 2018 included $3.8 million of receivables, $0.8 million of inventories, $0.1 million of machinery and equipment, $3.6 million of intangibles and $3.7 million of goodwill. The intangible assets acquired are customer relationships with an estimated average useful life of 10 years. As of March 31, 2019, the Company had completed its analysis for estimating the fair value of the assets acquired with no additional adjustments. This acquisition is further described in Note 5 "Acquisition" in the Unaudited Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements. 



In the first quarter of 2019, the Company made a contingent payment of $1.0 million related to the May 1, 2017 acquisition of 100% of the outstanding common stock of D-Flow. There is an additional $2.0 million of contingent payments related to the D-Flow acquisition that is anticipated to be made in the next twelve months which is recorded in payables on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet at September 30, 2019. 



Revenue and Product Mix 



As the industry continues to evolve, the Company has been at the forefront of innovation across metering, radio and software technologies in order to meet its customers’ increasing expectations for accurate and actionable data. As technologies such as ORION Cellular and BEACON AMA managed solutions have become more readily adopted, the Company’s revenue from Software as a Service (SaaS) has increased significantly, albeit from a small base, and is margin accretive.  



The Company also seeks opportunities for additional revenue enhancement. For instance, the Company has made inroads into the Middle East market with its ultrasonic meter technology and is pursuing other geographic expansion opportunities. The Company is periodically asked to oversee and perform field installation of its products for certain customers. The Company assumes the role of general contractor and either performs the installation or hires installation subcontractors and supervises their work.  



Results of Operations - Three Months Ended September 30, 2019 



Net Sales 



The Company’s net sales for the three months ended September 30, 2019 were $108.6 million compared to $110.6 million during the same period in 2018. Sales into the municipal water market were $84.3 million, a decrease of 2.6% from the prior year’s $86.5 million. The sales decline resulted from a prior year municipal water order in the Middle East which did not repeat. In the domestic municipal water market (United States, Latin America and Canada), sales grew 1.9% attributable to higher sales of advanced technology products including ORION Cellular LTE-M endpoints and newly launched three and four-inch commercial E-Series® Ultrasonic water meters. SaaS revenue associated with data collection and software analytics also increased. Sales of products into the global flow instrumentation end markets were $24.3 million, 1.0% higher than the prior year’s $24.1 million.  





Table of Contents  



Earnings 



Total operating earnings for the three months ended September 30, 2019 were $16.4 million, or 15.1% of sales, compared to $15.7 million, or 14.2% of sales, in the comparable prior year quarter. Gross margin declined $2.3 million associated with lower volumes and higher warranty costs partially offset by improved municipal water product and regional sales mix as well as the benefit of pricing and lower year-over-year commodity costs, including brass. During the quarter, the Company recorded a $1.7 million discrete warranty provision associated with a sourced system integration module for a previously installed solution sold only outside North America. Selling, engineering and administration (“SEA”) expenses were $25.2 million or 23.2% of sales compared to $28.2 million or 25.5% of sales in the comparable prior year quarter. The prior year included $2.1 million of executive retirement charges associated with the vesting of equity and cash awards for the retiring CEO, which did not repeat in 2019. The remaining reduction in SEA spending was largely associated with reduced incentive compensation expense and spending controls.  



Other pension and postretirement costs in the third quarter of 2018 included a settlement charge of $11.7 million in connection with the planned termination of the Company’s pension plan, which was finalized in 2018.  



The provision for income taxes as a percentage of earnings before income taxes for the third quarter of 2019 was 22.1% compared to 21.9% in the third quarter of 2018. Interim provisions are based on an estimate of the overall annual rate that can vary due to state taxes, the relationship of foreign and domestic earnings, other credits available and tax reform provisions.  



As a result of the above-mentioned items, net earnings for the three months ended September 30, 2019 were $12.7 million, or $0.44 per diluted share, compared to $2.9 million, or $0.10 per diluted share, for the same period in 2018. 



Results of Operations - Nine Months Ended September 30, 2019 



Net Sales 



The Company’s net sales for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 were $317.1 million, a decrease of 3.7% from the comparable prior year’s sales of $329.3 million. Sales into the municipal water market were $245.1 million, a decline 3.9% from the prior year’s $255.0 million. Residential volumes in both the US and international markets declined, while commercial sales were essentially flat. Overall, customers deferred orders in order to obtain the latest versions of newer technology radios and meters which are in advanced testing stages in the first half of 2019. The Company did benefit from continued positive sales mix reflecting a higher percentage of meters with radios, ultrasonic meters and SaaS revenue associated with data collection and software analytics. Sales of products into the global flow instrumentations end markets were $72.0 million, approximately 3.1% lower than the prior year’s $74.3 million. The majority of the decline was due lower general industrial demand across the diverse end markets served, as well as unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations year-over-year. 



Earnings 



Total operating earnings for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 were $45.8 million, or 14.4% of sales, compared to $42.1 million, or 12.8% of sales, in the comparable prior year period. Gross margin dollars were essentially flat year-over-year at $122.4 million versus $122.2 million a year ago, but improved as a percent of sales from 37.1% to 38.6%. The gross margin percent increase was largely the result of improved municipal water product mix, the benefit of pricing and lower year-over-year commodity costs, including brass, as well as the nonrecurrence of facility relocation charges incurred in the prior year. SEA expenses for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 decreased $3.5 million year-over-year of which $2.1 million related to executive retirement charges in the prior year which did not repeat in 2019. Of the remaining change, normal salary and wage inflation was more than offset by spending controls.  



The provision for income taxes as a percentage of earnings before income taxes for the first nine months of 2019 was 23.1% compared to 22.2% for the comparable prior year period. Interim provisions are based on an estimate of the overall annual rate that can vary due to state taxes, the relationship of foreign and domestic earnings, other credits available and tax reform provisions.  



Other pension and postretirement costs for the nine months ending September 30, 2018 included settlement charges of $19.9 million in connection with the planned termination of the Company’s pension plan, which was finalized in 2018.  



As a result of the above-mentioned items, net earnings for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 were $34.9 million, or $1.19 per diluted share, compared to $16.6 million, or $0.57 per diluted share, for the same period in 2018. 





Table of Contents  



LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 



The main sources of liquidity for the Company are cash from operations and borrowing capacity. In addition, depending on market conditions, the Company may access the capital markets to strengthen its capital position and to provide additional liquidity for general corporate purposes. 



Primary Working Capital 







Overall, PWC declined $10.8 million compared to the previous calendar year end. Receivables at September 30, 2019 declined $4.9 million due to both lower sales volumes as well as improved collection efforts. Inventories increased modestly at September 30, 2019 with higher backlog, while Payables at September 30, 2019 were $9.9 million higher than year-end due to the timing of payments and focused payment terms extensions. 



Cash Provided by Operations 



Cash provided by operations in the first nine months of 2019 was $61.1 million compared to $39.9 million in the same period of 2018. The increase is due primarily to effective working capital management. 



Capital expenditures for the first nine months of 2019 were $5.6 million compared to $7.2 million in the first nine months of 2018. 



Short-term debt decreased $13.5 million to $4.4 million at September 30, 2019 from $18.1 million at December 31, 2018 due to the strong cash flow from operations, partially offset by the payment of dividends. At the end of the third quarter of 2019, the Company is in a net cash (cash less short-term debt) position of $33.4 million. 



The Company’s financial condition remains strong. In June 2018, the Company amended its May 2012 credit agreement with its primary lender and extended its term until September 2021. The credit agreement includes a $125.0 million line of credit that supports commercial paper (up to $70.0 million) and includes $5.0 million of a Euro line of credit. While the facility is unsecured, there are a number of financial covenants with which the Company must comply, and the Company was in compliance as of September 30, 2019. The Company believes that its operating cash flows, available borrowing capacity, and its ability to raise capital provide adequate resources to fund ongoing operating requirements, future capital expenditures and the development of new products. The Company continues to take advantage of its local commercial paper market and carefully monitors the current borrowing market. The Company had $128.2 million of unused credit lines available at September 30, 2019. 



Other Matters 



The Company is subject to contingencies related to environmental laws and regulations. A future change in circumstances with respect to these specific matters or with respect to sites formerly or currently owned or operated by the Company, off-site disposal locations used by the Company, and property owned by third parties that is near such sites, could result in future costs to the Company and such amounts could be material. Expenditures for compliance with environmental control provisions and regulations during 2018 and the first three quarters of 2019 were not material. 



See the “Special Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements” at the front of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 for a discussion of risks and uncertainties that could impact the Company’s financial performance and results of operations. 





Table of Contents  



Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations 



The Company’s off-balance sheet arrangements and contractual obligations are discussed in Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under the headings “Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements” and “Contractual Obligations” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 and have not materially changed since that report was filed unless otherwise indicated in this Form 10-Q. 



Item 2Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds 



In February 2017, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 400,000 shares of the Company’s Common Stock through February 2020. The following table provides information about the Company's purchases during the quarter ended September 30, 2019 of equity securities that are registered by the Company pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act. 





Item 6 Exhibits 



EXHIBIT INDEX 







A management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. 





Table of Contents  



SIGNATURES 



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 





