Item 2 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Business Description and Overview
Municipal water, the largest category by sales volume, includes mechanical and ultrasonic (electronic) water meters and related technologies and services used by municipal water utilities as the basis for generating water and wastewater revenues.
The key market for the Company’s municipal water meter products is North America, primarily the United States, because most of the Company's meters are designed and manufactured to conform to standards promulgated by the American Water Works Association.
The majority of water meters sold by the Company continue to be mechanical in nature.
In recent years, the Company has made inroads in selling ultrasonic water meters.
The development of smaller diameter ultrasonic water meters combined with advanced radio technology now provides the Company with the opportunity to sell into other geographical markets, for example Europe, the Middle East and South America.
In the municipal water category, sales of water meters and related technologies and services are also commonly referred to as residential or commercial water meter sales, the latter referring to larger sizes of water meters.
Residential and commercial water meters are generally classified as either manually read meters or remotely read meters via radio technology.
A manually read meter consists of a water meter and a register that provides a visual totalized meter reading.
Meters equipped with radio technology (endpoints) receive flow measurement data from encoder registers attached to the water meter, which is encrypted and transmitted via radio frequency to a receiver that collects and formats the data appropriately for water utility billing systems.
These remotely read, or mobile, systems are either automatic meter reading (AMR) systems, where a vehicle equipped for meter reading purposes, including a radio receiver, computer and reading software, collects the data from utilities’ meters; or fixed network advanced metering infrastructure (AMI) systems, where data is gathered utilizing a network of permanent data collectors or gateway receivers that are always active or listening for the radio transmission from the utilities’ meters.
AMI systems eliminate the need for utility personnel to drive through service territories to collect data from the meters.
These systems provide the utilities with more frequent and diverse data from their meters at specified intervals.
Table of Contents
The ORION® family of radio endpoints provides water utilities with a range of industry-leading options for meter reading.
These include ORION Migratable (ME) for mobile meter reading, ORION (SE) for traditional fixed network applications, and ORION Cellular for infrastructure-free fixed network meter reading.
ORION Migratable makes the migration to fixed network easier for utilities that prefer to start with mobile reading and later adopt fixed network communications, allowing utilities to choose a solution for their current needs and be positioned for their future operational changes.
ORION Cellular eliminates the need for utility-owned fixed network infrastructure, allows for rapid deployment and decreases ongoing maintenance.
Critical to the water metering ecosystem is information and analytics.
The Company’s BEACON AMA Managed Solution is the latest in metering technology.
BEACON AMA combines the BEACON analytical software suite with proven ORION technologies using two-way fixed and cellular networks in a managed solution, improving utilities’ visibility of their water consumption and eliminating the need for costly utility-managed infrastructure.
The BEACON AMA secure, cloud-hosted software suite includes a customizable dashboard, the ability to establish alerts for specific conditions, and consumer engagement tools that allow end water customers to view and manage their water usage activity.
Benefits to the utility include improved customer service, increased visibility through faster leak detection, the ability to promote and quantify the effects of its water conservation efforts, and easier compliance reporting.
The Company’s net sales and corresponding net earnings depend on unit volume and product mix, with the Company generally earning higher margins on meters equipped with radio technology.
The Company’s proprietary radio products generally result in higher margins than the remarketed, non-proprietary technology products.
The Company also sells registers and endpoints separately to customers who wish to upgrade their existing meters in the field.
Water meter replacement and the adoption and deployment of new technology comprise the majority of water meter product sales, including radio products.
To a much lesser extent, housing starts also contribute to the new product sales base.
Over the last decade, there has been a growing trend in the conversion from manually read water meters to radio technology.
This conversion rate is accelerating and contributes to an increased water meter and radio solutions base of business.
The Company estimates that approximately 55% to 60% of water meters installed in the United States have been converted to a radio solutions technology.
The Company’s strategy is to fulfill customers’ metering expectations and requirements with its proprietary meter reading systems or other systems available through its alliance partners in the marketplace.
Flow instrumentation products serve flow measurement and control applications across a broad industrial spectrum, occasionally leveraging the same technologies used in the municipal water category.
Specialized communication protocols that control the entire flow measurement process and mandatory certifications drive these markets.
The Company’s specific flow measurement and control applications and technologies serve the flow measurement market through both customized and standard flow instrumentation solutions.
Industries today face accelerating demands to contain costs, reduce product variability, and meet ever-changing safety, regulatory and sustainability requirements.
To address these challenges, customers must reap more value from every component in their systems.
This system-wide scrutiny has heightened the focus on flow instrumentation in industrial process, manufacturing, commercial fluid, building automation, and precision engineering applications where flow measurement and control are critical.
An industry leader in both mechanical and electrical flow metering technologies, the Company offers one of the broadest flow measurement, control and communication portfolios in the market.
The portfolio carries respected brand names including Recordall®, E-Series, ORION, Hedland®, Dynasonics®, Blancett®, and Research Control®, and includes eight of the ten major flow meter technologies.
Customers rely on the Company for application-specific solutions that deliver accurate, timely and dependable flow data and control essential for product quality, cost control, safer operations, regulatory compliance, and more sustainable operations.
Business Trends
Increasingly, the electric utility industry relies on AMI technology for two-way communication to monitor and control electrical devices at the customer's site.
Although the Company does not sell products for electric market applications, the trend toward AMI affects the markets in which the Company does participate, particularly for those customers in the water utility market that are interested in more frequent and diverse data collection.
Specifically, AMI and AMA technologies enable water utilities to capture readings from each meter at more frequent and variable intervals.
Similar to the electric utility industry’s conversion to solid-state meters in recent years, the water utility industry is beginning the conversion from mechanical to ultrasonic meters.
Ultrasonic water metering has lower barriers to entry, which could affect the competitive landscape for the water meter market in North America.
Table of Contents
The Company sells its technology solutions to meet customer requirements.
Since the technology products have comparable margins, any change in the mix between AMR, AMI or AMA is not expected to have a significant impact on the Company's net sales related to meter reading technology.
There are approximately 52,000 water utilities in the United States and the Company estimates that approximately 55% to 60% of them have converted to a radio solutions technology.
With the BEACON AMA managed solution and its wide breadth of water meters, the Company believes it is well positioned to meet customers' future needs.
Flow measurements are critical to provide a baseline and quantify reductions as customers attempt to reduce consumption.
Once water usage is better understood, a strategy for water-use reduction can be developed with specific water-reduction initiatives targeted to those areas where water reduction is most viable.
With the Company’s technology, customers have found costly leaks, pinpointed equipment in need of repair, and identified areas for process improvements.
Acquisitions
On April 2, 2018, the Company acquired 100% of the outstanding stock of Innovative Metering Solutions, Inc. ("IMS") of Odessa, Florida, which was one of the Company's distributors serving Florida.
The total purchase consideration was approximately $12.0 million, which included $7.7 million in cash, a $0.3 million working capital adjustment, a balance sheet holdback of $0.7 million and settlement of $3.3 million of pre-existing Company receivables.
The working capital adjustment was settled in the second quarter of 2018 and the balance sheet holdback is recorded in payables and other current liabilities on the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheet as it is anticipated to be paid in the next twelve months.
The Company's preliminary allocation of the purchase price at June 30, 2018 included $3.8 million of receivables, $0.8 million of inventories, $0.1 million of machinery and equipment, $3.6 million of intangibles and $3.7 million of goodwill.
The intangible assets acquired are customer relationships with an estimated average useful life of 10 years.
As of September 30, 2018, the Company had not completed its analysis for estimating the fair value of the assets acquired.
This acquisition is further described in Note 5 "Acquisitions" in the Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
The total purchase consideration for the Carolina Meter assets was $6.2 million, which included $2.0 million in cash and settlement of $4.2 million of pre-existing Company receivables.
The Company's preliminary allocation of the purchase price at December 31, 2017 included $0.6 million of receivables, $0.3 million of inventories, $3.3 million of intangibles and $2.0 million of goodwill.
The intangible assets acquired are primarily customer relationships with an estimated average useful life of 12 years.
The preliminary allocation of the purchase price to the assets acquired was based upon the estimated fair values at the date of acquisition.
As of September 30, 2018, the Company has not completed its analysis for estimating the fair value of the assets acquired.
This acquisition is further described in Note 5 "Acquisitions" in the Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
On May 1, 2017, the Company acquired 100% of the outstanding common stock of D-Flow Technology AB ("D-Flow") of Luleå, Sweden.
The D-Flow acquisition facilitates the continued advancement of the existing E-Series ultrasonic product line while also adding a technology center for the Company.
Table of Contents
The purchase price was approximately $23.2 million in cash, plus a small working capital adjustment.
The purchase price included $5.0 million of contingent payments, of which $3.0 million are anticipated to be made in the fourth quarter of 2018 and are recorded in payables and other current liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at September 30, 2018.
Contingent payments of $2.0 million were made in the third quarter of 2018.
The Company's preliminary allocation of the purchase price included approximately $0.3 million in receivables, $0.6 million of inventories, $0.2 million in machinery and equipment, $10.9 million of intangibles and $16.1 million of goodwill.
The Company also assumed $4.9 million of liabilities as part of the acquisition.
As of March 31, 2018, the Company completed its analysis for estimating the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed with no additional adjustments.
This acquisition is further described in Note 5 "Acquisitions" in the Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
Revenue and Product Mix
As the industry continues to evolve, the Company has been vigilant in anticipating and exceeding customer expectations.
In 2011, the Company introduced AMA as a hardware and software solution for water and gas utilities, and then in early 2014 launched its new BEACON AMA system, as a managed solution, which it believes will help maintain the Company's position as a market leader.
Since its inception, sales of BEACON AMA have continued to grow with large cities and private water utilities selecting BEACON AMA and the Company’s industry-leading water meters.
The Company continues to seek opportunities for additional revenue enhancement.
For instance, the Company is periodically asked to oversee and perform field installation of its products for certain customers.
The Company assumes the role of general contractor, hiring installation subcontractors and supervising their work.
The Company also supports its product and technology sales with the sale of extended service programs that provide additional services beyond the standard warranty.
In recent years, the Company has sold ORION radio technology to natural gas utilities for installation on their gas meters.
Most recently, the introduction of the BEACON AMA system opens the door to “software as a service” revenues.
Revenues from such products and services are not yet significant and the Company is uncertain of the potential growth achievable for such products and services in future periods.
Results of Operations - Three Months Ended September 30, 2018
The Company’s net sales for the three months ended September 30, 2018 increased $10.6 million, or 11%, to $110.6 million compared to $100.0 million during the same period in 2017.
Municipal water sales represented 78% of sales in the third quarter of 2018 compared to 75% in the third quarter of 2017.
These sales increased $11.8 million, or 16%, to $86.5 million in the third quarter of 2018 from $74.7 million in the third quarter of 2017.
The increase was due to higher sales in the residential market in both North America and the Middle East, pricing actions, higher service revenue and a greater mix of newer technology meters and related radios.
Gross margin as a percentage of sales was 39.7% in the third quarter of 2018 compared to 37.0% in the third quarter of 2017.
The improvement in margins was the result of higher sales volumes, pricing actions and favorable product and service mix.
The resultant operating earnings for the third quarter of 2018 increased $3.4 million, or 28%, to $15.7 million compared to $12.3 million in the same period in 2017.
Other pension and postretirement costs were $11.8 million compared to a benefit of $0.1 million in the third quarter of 2017.
The third quarter of 2018 included a settlement charge of $11.7 million made in connection with the last phase of the previously planned termination of the Company’s pension plan.
Following the pension termination charges taken in the third quarter of 2018, the pension termination is complete.
Table of Contents
The provision for income taxes as a percentage of earnings before income taxes for the third quarter of 2018 was 21.9% compared to 34.5% in the third quarter of 2017.
Interim provisions are based on an estimate of the overall annual rate that can vary due to state taxes, the relationship of foreign and domestic earnings, other credits available and developing tax reform provisions.
The decrease between years was due primarily to the lower Federal tax rate, which declined from 35% in 2017 to 21% in 2018.
As a result of the above-mentioned items, net earnings for the three months ended September 30, 2018 were $2.9 million, or $0.10 per diluted share, compared to $8.0 million, or $0.27 per diluted share, for the same period in 2017.
Results of Operations - Nine Months Ended September 30, 2018
 The Company’s net sales for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 increased $23.5 million, or 8%, to $329.3 million compared to $305.8 million during the same period in 2017.
Municipal water sales represented 77% of sales for the first nine months of 2018 compared to 76% for the first nine months of 2017.
These sales increased $22.0 million, or 9%, to $255.0 million in the first nine months of 2018 from $233.0 million in 2017 and were driven by pricing actions, increased domestic volumes of newer meter technologies and related radios as well as higher service revenue.
Flow instrumentation products represented 23% of sales for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 compared to 24% for the first nine months of 2017.
These sales increased $1.5 million, or 2%, to $74.3 million for the first nine months in 2018 compared to $72.8 million in the same period last year due to higher sales into the oil and gas market as well as other targeted markets.
Gross margin as a percentage of sales was 37.1% for the first nine months of 2018 compared to 38.2% in the same period in 2017.
The benefit of higher volume and favorable mix was more than offset by commodity cost increases in excess of pricing.
Operating earnings for the first nine months of 2018 decreased $0.6 million, or 1%, to $42.1 million compared to $42.7 million in the same period in 2017 as the result of the lower gross margins and higher selling, engineering and administration expenses.
Other pension and postretirement costs were $19.8 million for the first nine months of 2018 compared to $0.2 million in the same period in 2017.
Included in the amount for 2018 was pension termination settlement charges of $19.9 million made in connection with the previously planned termination of the Company’s pension plan.
The provision for income taxes as a percentage of earnings before income taxes for the first nine months of 2018 was 22.2% compared to 34.8% for the same period in 2017.
Interim provisions are based on an estimate of the overall annual rate that can vary due to state taxes, the relationship of foreign and domestic earnings, other credits available and developing tax reform provisions.
The decrease between years was due almost entirely to the lower Federal tax rate, which declined from 35% in 2017 to 21% in 2018.
As a result of the above-mentioned items, net earnings for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 were $16.6 million, or $0.57 per diluted share, compared to $27.3 million, or $0.94 per diluted share, for the same period in 2017.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
The main sources of liquidity for the Company are cash from operations and borrowing capacity.
Cash provided by operations was $39.9 million for the first nine months of 2018 compared to $45.9 million through the first nine months of 2017.
Receivables increased from $58.2 million at December 31, 2017 to $70.0 million at September 30, 2018.
Generally, receivable balances are lower at year-end than at other times of the year due to seasonality in the Company’s business.
The Company believes its net receivables balance is fully collectible.
Table of Contents
Inventories at September 30, 2018 were $84.3 million, a decrease from $85.2 million at December 31, 2017.
These balances fluctuate from time to time due to the level of sales and the timing of inventory purchases.
Net property, plant and equipment decreased slightly from $93.6 million at December 31, 2017 to $91.6 million at September 30, 2018.
This was the net effect of depreciation expense, offset by $7.2 million of capital expenditures in the first nine months of 2018.
Intangible assets decreased to $57.3 million at September 30, 2018 from $59.3 million at December 31, 2017 due to normal amortization expense, offset by an increase of $3.7 million related to the April 2018 acquisition of IMS.
The IMS acquisition was also the main reason for the increase in goodwill from $67.4 million on December 31, 2017 to $71.3 million on September 30, 2018.
Short-term debt at September 30, 2018 decreased to $36.0 million from $44.6 million at December 31, 2017 due to the timing of cash needs.
Payables of $24.9 million at September 30, 2018 decreased from $28.6 million at December 31, 2017.
These balances were impacted by the timing of purchases and payments.
Accrued compensation and employee benefits decreased to $12.4 million at September 30, 2018 from $15.5 million at December 31, 2017 due to payments made in the first three quarters of 2018 related to 2017 earned employee compensation, offset somewhat by provisions made for 2018 employee incentives earned to date.
Income and other taxes payable decreased to $0.4 million at September 30, 2018 from $1.1 million at December 31, 2017.
The change was the net impact of the lower Federal tax rate for 2018 and the timing of actual tax payments.
Other long-term liabilities increased to $14.4 million compared to $4.1 million on December 31, 2017.
The increase was due primarily to higher deferred revenue associated with the BEACON AMA offering.
The overall increase in total shareholders’ equity from $277.5 million at December 31, 2017 to $295.2 million at September 30, 2018 was the net effect of net earnings and stock options exercised, offset by dividends paid and repurchased stock.
The Company’s financial condition remains strong.
In June 2018, the Company amended its May 2012 credit agreement with its primary lender to extend until September 2021 the $125.0 million line of credit that supports commercial paper (up to $70.0 million) and includes $5.0 million of a Euro line of credit.
While the facility is unsecured, there are a number of financial covenants with which the Company must comply, and the Company was in compliance as of September 30, 2018.
The Company believes that its operating cash flows, available borrowing capacity, and its ability to raise capital provide adequate resources to fund ongoing operating requirements, future capital expenditures and the development of new products.
The Company continues to take advantage of its local commercial paper market and carefully monitors the current borrowing market.
The Company had $97.9 million of unused credit lines available at September 30, 2018.
Other Matters
The Company is subject to contingencies related to environmental laws and regulations.
A future change in circumstances with respect to these specific matters or with respect to sites formerly or currently owned or operated by the Company, off-site disposal locations used by the Company, and property owned by third parties that is near such sites, could result in future costs to the Company and such amounts could be material.
Expenditures for compliance with environmental control provisions and regulations during 2017 and the first three quarters of 2018 were not material.
See the “Special Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements” at the front of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 for a discussion of risks and uncertainties that could impact the Company’s financial performance and results of operations.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations
The Company’s off-balance sheet arrangements and contractual obligations are discussed in Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under the headings “Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements” and “Contractual Obligations” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 and have not materially changed since that report was filed unless otherwise indicated in this Form 10-Q.
Table of Contents
