fls.txt
Therefore, we can give no assurance that the results implied by these forward-looking statements will be realized.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and footnotes included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2018.
Results for the six months ended February 28, 2019 are not necessarily an indication of the results that may be expected for the full fiscal year ending August 31, 2019.
During the six months ended February 28, 2019, the Company’s five largest customers accounted for approximately 46% of its net revenue and 78 customers accounted for approximately 90% of its net revenue.
Charges, net of insurance proceeds of $6.1 million for the three months ended February 28, 2018, and $2.9 million and $16.4 million for the six months ended February 28, 2019 and 2018, respectively, relate to business interruption and asset impairment costs associated with damage from Hurricane Maria, which impacted our operations in Cayey, Puerto Rico.
The estimated fair values of the Company’s publicly traded debt, including the 5.625%, 4.700% and 3.950% Senior Notes, were approximately $410.5 million, $508.0 million and $463.3 million, respectively, as of February 28, 2019.
The Company regularly sells designated pools of trade accounts receivable under a foreign asset-backed securitization program, a North American asset-back securitization program and uncommitted trade accounts receivable sale programs (collectively referred to herein as the “programs”).
The Company continues servicing the receivables sold and in exchange receives a servicing fee under each of the programs.
Servicing fees related to each of the programs recognized during the three months and six months ended February 28, 2019 and 2018 were not material.
The Company does not record a servicing asset or liability on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as the Company estimates that the fee it receives to service these receivables approximates the fair market compensation to provide the servicing activities.
2016-15 (“ASU 2016-15”) described in Note 14, New Accounting Guidance, resulted in a reclassification of cash flows from operating activities to investing activities in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for cash receipts related to collections on the deferred purchase price receivable (i.e. beneficial interest) on asset-backed securitization transactions.
The Company continuously sells designated pools of trade accounts receivable under its foreign asset-backed securitization program to a special purpose entity, which in turn sells certain of the receivables to an unaffiliated financial institution and a conduit administered by an unaffiliated financial institution on a monthly basis.
In connection with this amendment, there is no longer a deferred purchase price receivable for the foreign asset-backed securitization program as the entire purchase price is paid in cash when the receivables are sold.
The foreign asset-backed securitization program contains a guarantee of payment by the special purpose entity, in an amount equal to approximately the net cash proceeds under the program.
The Company is deemed the primary beneficiary of this special purpose entity as the Company has both the power to direct the activities of the entity that most significantly impact the entity’s economic performance and the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive the benefits that could potentially be significant to the entity from the transfer of the trade accounts receivable into the special purpose entity.
Accordingly, the special purpose entity associated with the foreign asset-backed securitization program is included in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The North American asset-backed securitization program was terminated on October 9, 2018 and as of this date approximately $500.0 million of accounts receivable sold under the program was exchanged for the outstanding deferred purchase price receivable of $300.0 million and $200.0 million of cash.
On November 27, 2018, the Company entered into a new North American asset-backed securitization program.
The Company continuously sells designated pools of trade accounts receivable under its new North American asset-backed securitization program to a special purpose entity, which in turn sells certain of the receivables to conduits administered by unaffiliated financial institutions on a monthly basis.


item2.txt
Based on net revenue for the six months ended February 28, 2019, our largest customers include Amazon.com, Inc., Apple, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., GoPro, Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company, Keysight Technologies, LM Ericsson Telephone Company, NetApp, Inc., Nokia Networks, and Zebra Technologies Corporation.
We derived a substantial majority, 88.2% and 90.6%, of net revenue from our international operations for the three months and six months ended February 28, 2019.
During the three months ended November 30, 2018, the increase in days in accounts receivable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to an increase in accounts receivable primarily driven by the amended and new securitization programs and higher sales and timing of collections.
During the three months ended February 28, 2019, the decrease in days in accounts payable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to lower materials purchases during the quarter and timing of purchases and cash payments for purchases during the quarter.
During the three months ended August 31, 2018, the increase in days in accounts payable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to higher materials purchases during the quarter and the timing of purchases and cash payments for purchases during the quarter.
The preparation of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. Effective September 1, 2018, our revenue recognition accounting policies changed in conjunction with the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard.
Net revenue increased during the three months ended February 28, 2019, compared to the three months ended February 28, 2018.
The decrease was partially offset by a 4% increase in revenues from existing customers in our healthcare business.
EMS segment revenues increased 33% primarily due to (i) a 13% increase in revenues for customers within our cloud business, (ii) an 8% increase in revenues from customers within our networking and telecommunications business, (iii) an 8% increase in revenues from existing customers within our industrial and energy business and (iv) a 6% increase in revenues for customers within our print and retail business.
The increase is partially offset by a 2% decrease in revenues from customers within our capital equipment business, which we anticipate to recover in fiscal year 2020.


item4.txt



part2.txt
As of February 28, 2019, the total amount authorized by the Board of Directors had been utilized.


