fls.txt
Therefore, we can give no assurance that the results implied by these forward-looking statements will be realized.


item1.txt
The Company has made certain reclassification adjustments to conform prior periods’ Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements to the current presentation.
The Company calculates its basic earnings per share by dividing net income attributable to Jabil Inc. by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period.
On October 6, 2017, the Company’s Compensation Committee approved the modification of vesting criteria for certain performance-based restricted stock awards granted in fiscal year 2015.
As a result of the modification, 0.8 million awards vested during the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, which resulted in approximately $24.9 million of stock-based compensation expense recognized.
During the nine months ended May 31, 2018, the Company’s five largest customers accounted for approximately 50% of its net revenue and 77 customers accounted for approximately 90% of its net revenue.
Transactions between operating segments are generally recorded at amounts that approximate those at which the Company would transact with third parties.
(3)  During the second quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company issued $500.0 million of publicly registered 3.950% Senior Notes due 2028 (the “3.950% Senior Notes”).
The net proceeds from the offering were used for general corporate purposes, including to redeem $400.0 million of the Company’s outstanding 8.250% Senior Notes due 2018 and pay related costs and a “make-whole” premium.
The estimated fair values of the Company’s publicly traded debt, including the 5.625%, 4.700% and 3.950% Senior Notes, were approximately $419.5 million, $514.1 million and $481.7 million, respectively, as of May 31, 2018.
The estimated fair value of the Company’s private debt, the 4.900% Senior Notes, was approximately $306.5 million, as of May 31, 2018.
The Company regularly sells designated pools of trade accounts receivable under two asset-backed securitization programs and seven uncommitted trade accounts receivable sale programs (collectively referred to herein as the “programs”).
The Company continues servicing the receivables sold and in exchange receives a servicing fee under each of the programs.
Servicing fees related to each of the programs recognized during the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018 and 2017 were not material.
The Company does not record a servicing asset or liability on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as the Company estimates that the fee it receives to service these receivables approximates the fair market compensation to provide the servicing activities.
Transfers of the receivables under the programs are accounted for as sales and, accordingly, net receivables sold under the programs are excluded from accounts receivable on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and are reflected as cash provided by operating activities on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
The special purpose entity in the North American asset-backed securitization program is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company.


item2.txt
Based on net revenue for the nine months ended May 31, 2018, our largest customers include Apple, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., GoPro, Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company, LM Ericsson Telephone Company, NetApp, Inc., Nokia Networks, SolarEdge Technologies, Inc., Valeo S.A. and Zebra Technologies Corporation.
We derived a substantial majority, 91.2% and 91.8%, of net revenue from our international operations for the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018, respectively.
During the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018, we recognized $(0.6) million and $10.7 million of expenses, net of insurance proceeds of $5.0 million and $21.4 million, respectively.
(2)  During the three months ended May 31, 2018, the decrease in days in inventory from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to increased sales activity during the quarter.
During the three months ended February 28, 2018, the increase in days in inventory from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to the increase in inventories to support expected sales levels in the third quarter of fiscal year 2018 along with overall increased demand.
(3)  During the three months ended May 31, 2018, the decrease in days in accounts payable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to the timing of purchases and cash payments for purchases during the quarter.
During the three months ended November 30, 2017, the increase in days in accounts payable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to higher materials purchases during the quarter due to increased demand in the mobility business as well as the timing of purchases and cash payments from purchases during the quarter.
The preparation of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. See Note 13 – “New Accounting Guidance” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent accounting guidance.
Specifically, the DMS segment revenues increased 36% due to (i) a 29% increase in revenues from customers within our mobility business as a result of increased end user product demand, (ii) a 4% increase in revenues due to new business from existing customers in our healthcare business and (iii) a 3% increase in revenues due to a new customer and from existing customers in our consumer lifestyles and wearable technologies business.
EMS segment revenues increased 12% primarily due to (i) a 3% increase in revenues from a new customer and from existing customers within our industrial and energy business, (ii) a 3% increase in revenues from existing customers in our capital equipment business, (iii) a 2% increase in revenues from existing customers in our digital home business, (iv) a 2% increase in revenues from existing customers within our networking and telecommunications business and (v) a 2% increase in revenues spread across various industries within the EMS segment.
Specifically, the DMS segment revenues increased 27% due to (i) a 25% increase in revenues from customers within our mobility business as a result of increased end user product demand and (ii) a 2% increase in revenues due to new business from existing customers in our healthcare business.


item4.txt
Certain instruments with respect to long-term debt of the Registrant and its consolidated subsidiaries are not filed herewith pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of Regulation S-K since the total amount of securities authorized under each such instrument does not exceed 10% of the total assets of the Registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.


part2.txt
(2)  In July 2017, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $450.0 million of our common stock as publicly announced in a press release issued on July 20, 2017.


