fls.txt



item1.txt
The accounting policies followed by the Company are set forth in Part II, Item 8, Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in the Consolidated Financial Statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“U.S. GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
These Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017.
Company management has made estimates and assumptions relating to the reporting of certain assets and liabilities in conformity with U.S. GAAP.
The Company’s adoption of ASU 2015‑11 did not have a material impact on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
On September 15, 2017, the Company acquired substantially all the assets of Tegile Systems, Inc., a provider of flash and persistent-memory storage solutions for enterprise data center applications.
These acquisitions are primarily intended to help meet the evolving needs of customers, while driving long-term growth for the Company's existing data center and client solution products over the long term.
The aggregate purchase price of acquisitions during the nine months ended March 30, 2018 was $99 million in cash, with net assets acquired primarily consisting of developed technology and other intangible assets, of which $61 million was allocated to goodwill.
Goodwill is primarily attributable to the benefits the Company expects to derive from diversifying product offerings to its Data Center Devices and Solutions and Client Solutions end markets as well as the acquired workforce.
During the nine months ended March 30, 2018, the expenses incurred by the Company related to these acquisitions were immaterial and are primarily included within Selling, General and Administrative expenses in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
During the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018, the Company had no transfers of financial assets and liabilities between Level 1 and Level 2.
The Company determined available-for-sale securities had no material other-than-temporary impairments in the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018 or March 31, 2017.
The carrying value of the Company’s revolving credit facility approximates its fair value given the revolving nature of the balance and the variable market interest rate.
For financial instruments where the carrying value (which includes principal adjusted for any unamortized issuance costs, and discounts or premiums) differs from fair value (which is based on quoted market prices), the following table represents the related carrying value and fair value for each of the Company’s outstanding financial instruments.
From time to time, the Company enters into certain strategic investments for the promotion of business and strategic objectives.


item2.txt
For additional information regarding our debt facilities, see Part I, Item 1, Note 6, Debt, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q.
For additional information regarding the 2017 Act, see Part I, Item 1, Note 10, Income Tax Expense (Benefit), of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q.
The increase in net revenue for the three months ended March 30, 2018, compared to the same period in the prior year, is primarily due to increased flash memory and hard disk drives (“HDD”) product revenue.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Our direct and indirect customers may delay or reduce their purchases of our products and systems containing our products.
In addition, many of our customers rely on credit financing to purchase our products.
If negative conditions in the global credit markets prevent our customers’ access to credit, product orders may decrease, which could result in lower revenue.
Likewise, if our suppliers, sub-suppliers and sub-contractors (collectively referred to as “suppliers”) or partners face challenges in obtaining credit, in selling their products or otherwise in operating their businesses, they may be unable to offer the materials we use to manufacture our products.
If demand for our products slows as a result of a deterioration in economic conditions, we may undertake restructuring activities to realign our cost structure with softening demand.
In addition to ongoing credit evaluations of our customers’ financial condition, we seek to mitigate our credit risk from time to time by purchasing credit insurance on certain of our accounts receivable balances.
As a result of the continued uncertainty and volatility in global economic conditions, however, we may find it increasingly difficult to be able to insure these accounts receivable.
Additionally, negative or uncertain global economic conditions increase the risk that if a customer we have insured fails to pay us on their accounts receivable, the financial condition of the insurance carrier for such customer account may have also deteriorated such that it cannot cover our loss.
We rely substantially on our business ventures with Toshiba’s wholly owned subsidiary, Toshiba Memory Corporation (“TMC”), for the supply of NAND-flash memory and the development of NAND-flash technology, which subjects us to risks and uncertainties that could harm our business, financial condition and operating results.
We are dependent on our ventures with Toshiba’s wholly owned subsidiary, TMC, to develop and manufacture NAND-flash memory products for our NAND-flash memory supply, and therefore our business, financial condition and operating results, and our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from our acquisition of SanDisk Corporation (“SanDisk”) in May 2016, pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger”), is dependent on the continued success of Flash Ventures.
The majority of our NAND-flash memory is supplied by Flash Ventures, which limits our ability to respond to market demand and supply changes.


