fls.txt



item1.txt
The accounting policies followed by the Company are set forth in Part II, Item 8, Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in the Consolidated Financial Statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“U.S. GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
These Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017.
The Company’s adoption of ASU 2015‑11 did not have a material impact on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
The aggregate purchase price of acquisitions during the six months ended December 29, 2017 was $99 million in cash, with net assets acquired primarily consisting of developed technology and other intangibles assets, of which $61 million was allocated to goodwill.
Goodwill is primarily attributable to the benefits the Company expects to derive from diversifying product offerings to its Data Center Devices and Solutions and Client Solutions end markets as well as the acquired workforce.
During the six months ended December 29, 2017, the Company incurred $6 million of transaction expenses related to these acquisitions, which are primarily included within Selling, General and Administrative expenses in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
The Company determined available-for-sale securities had no material other-than-temporary impairments in the three and six months ended December 29, 2017 or December 30, 2016.
For financial instruments where the carrying value (which includes principal adjusted for any unamortized issuance costs, and discounts or premiums) differs from fair value (which is based on quoted market prices), the following table represents the related carrying value and fair value for each of the Company’s outstanding financial instruments.
From time to time, the Company enters into certain strategic investments for the promotion of business and strategic objectives.
The Company reports these investments under the cost method of accounting as it does not have a significant influence over the operations of these investees.
These investments consist of debt and equity securities of privately-held companies which do not have a readily determinable fair value and are carried at historical cost.
There were no impairment charges during the three months ended December 29, 2017 and $6 million of impairment charges for the six months ended December 29, 2017, which were included in Other income (expense), net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
As of December 29, 2017, the Company had outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts which were designated as either cash flow hedges or non-designated hedges.
In addition, the Company had outstanding interest rate swaps which were designated as cash flow hedges.


item2.txt
Since December 29, 2017, we have repurchased approximately $151 million of our common stock in privately negotiated transactions, at a purchase price per share equal to $87.08 per share, with available cash on hand.
In September 2017, Toshiba Corporation (“Toshiba”), of which TMC is a wholly owned subsidiary, announced it had entered into a definitive agreement to sell TMC, including its interest in Flash Ventures, to a consortium led by SK Hynix Inc. and Bain Capital Private Equity, L.P., BCPE Pangea Cayman, L.P., BCPE Pangea Cayman2, Ltd., Bain Capital Fund XII, L.P., Bain Capital Asia Fund III, L.P. and Pangea (together, “Bain Capital”), that includes other competitors, as well as key customers.
We previously asserted our consent rights under the terms of the Flash Ventures agreements with respect to the transactions involving, among other things, the transfer by Toshiba of its interests in Flash Ventures to TMC, and the proposed sale of TMC to a consortium of investors led by Bain Capital.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 5.Other Information 


part2.txt
In addition, many of our customers rely on credit financing to purchase our products.
If negative conditions in the global credit markets prevent our customers’ access to credit, product orders may decrease, which could result in lower revenue.
Likewise, if our suppliers, sub-suppliers and sub-contractors (collectively referred to as “suppliers”), or partners face challenges in obtaining credit, in selling their products or otherwise in operating their businesses, they may be unable to offer the materials we use to manufacture our products.
These actions could result in reductions in our revenue and increased operating costs, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.
In addition to ongoing credit evaluations of our customers’ financial condition, we seek to mitigate our credit risk from time to time by purchasing credit insurance on certain of our accounts receivable balances.
As a result of the continued uncertainty and volatility in global economic conditions, however, we may find it increasingly difficult to be able to insure these accounts receivable.
Additionally, negative or uncertain global economic conditions increase the risk that if a customer we have insured fails to pay us on their accounts receivable, the financial condition of the insurance carrier for such customer account may have also deteriorated such that it cannot cover our loss.
Negative or uncertain global economic conditions could result in circumstances, such as a sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization or a decrease in our forecasted cash flows, indicating that the carrying value of our long-lived assets or goodwill may be impaired.
If we are required to record a significant charge to earnings in our Consolidated Financial Statements because of an impairment of our long-lived assets or goodwill, our results of operations will be adversely affected.
We rely substantially on our business ventures with Toshiba’s wholly owned subsidiary, Toshiba Memory Corporation (“TMC”), for the supply of NAND-flash memory and the development of NAND-flash technology, which subjects us to risks and uncertainties that could harm our business, financial condition and operating results.


