fls.txt
2016-13, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments which amends the impairment model by requiring entities to use a forward-looking approach based on expected losses rather than incurred losses to estimate credit losses on certain types of financial instruments, including trade receivables.


item1.txt
In management’s opinion, the accompanying interim Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company include all adjustments, consisting only of normal, recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s financial position for the interim periods presented.
Although the Company does expect to record right-of-use assets and liabilities on its consolidated balance sheet, it does not expect the adoption of the standard to have a material impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
2016-13, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments which amends the impairment model by requiring entities to use a forward-looking approach based on expected losses rather than incurred losses to estimate credit losses on certain types of financial instruments, including trade receivables.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and will adopt the standard on the first day of the Company’s 2021 fiscal year.
The new standard will change the classification of certain cash payments and receipts within the cash flow statement.
Specifically, payments for debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs, including third-party costs, premiums paid, and other fees paid to lenders that are directly related to the debt prepayment or debt extinguishment, excluding accrued interest, will now be classified as financing activities.
The Company does not expect that the adoption of this new standard, on the first day of the Company’s 2020 fiscal year, will have a material impact on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
ASU 2014-09 supersedes the revenue recognition requirements in ASC 605, Revenue Recognition, and is based on the principle that revenue is recognized to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
The adoption of ASU 2014-09, using the modified retrospective approach, had no significant impact on the timing of revenue recognition, our results of operations, cash flows, or financial position.
The amount of expected returns are now recognized as a refund liability within the Accrued Expenses line item of the balance sheet.
The value of the expected goods returned by customers is now recognized as a return asset within the Prepaid expense and other current assets line item of the balance sheet.
These not-yet-earned PSUs have a one-year measurement period (fiscal 2019), and assuming the performance metrics are met to a sufficient extent, any shares earned at the end of fiscal 2019 will vest 25% and be issued ratably on or about each of May 1 of 2019, 2020, 2021 and 2022, provided that the respective employees remain employed by the Company on each such date (or meets certain other criteria as prescribed in the applicable award agreement, and unless accelerated in accordance with the terms of the applicable award agreement).
The PSUs cancelled during fiscal 2019 primarily related to the fiscal 2018 grant of PSUs, which had a one-year measurement period (fiscal 2018).


item2.txt
We experienced third quarter fiscal 2019 revenue growth within our commercial segment of 7.8% and a decrease in revenue in the retail segment of 2.1%, as compared to the third fiscal quarter of 2018.
Our third quarter fiscal year 2019 gross profit increased by 4.7%, compared to the third quarter of fiscal year 2018.
The increase in gross profit was primarily the result of the increase in revenue discussed above.
As a result of the factors discussed above, net income increased by 72.2% and diluted earnings per share increased by 68.4% compared to the prior-year quarter.
We believe, however, that our strength in service, the breadth and depth of our product offering, our information technology system, industry experience and knowledge, and our large customer base and purchasing relationships with approximately 440 manufacturers, provide us with a significant competitive advantage over new entrants to the marketplace.
Overall gross profit margin increased slightly from 20.2% in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 to 20.4% in the third quarter of fiscal 2019.
Within our retail segment, gross profit increased by 0.5% in the third quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to 2018.
Agreements or arrangements on which these relationships are based typically do not include any obligation in respect of any specific product purchase or sale, are of limited duration, and are terminable by either party upon relatively short notice.
Total selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $81,600 for the third quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues decreased from 18.7% for the third quarter of fiscal 2018, to 18.1% for the third quarter of fiscal 2019.
Selling, general and administrative expenses were consistent as compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2018, despite the 4.1% increase in sales.
There was an increase of $0.5 million in corporate support expense, primarily related to bad debt expenses, an increase of $0.3 million in information technology infrastructure to support our sales initiatives, and an increase of $0.2 million in compensation and benefits expense, during the third quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
We continually evaluate the credit worthiness of our existing customer receivable portfolio and provide an appropriate reserve based on this evaluation.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.


