fls.txt



item1.txt
The terms “Activision Blizzard,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” are used to refer collectively to Activision Blizzard, Inc. and its subsidiaries.
The common stock of Activision Blizzard is traded on The Nasdaq Stock Market under the ticker symbol “ATVI.” Activision primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including full-game and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Activision products.
Blizzard primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including subscriptions, full-game, and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Blizzard products.
Blizzard also maintains a proprietary online gaming service, Blizzard Battle.net®, which facilitates digital distribution of Blizzard content and selected Activision content, online social connectivity, and the creation of user-generated content.
Accordingly, the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts and operations of the Company.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2017, the beginning and ending cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash reported within our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows included restricted cash of $17 million and $10 million, respectively.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, there were no significant changes to our accounting policies, except for our adoption of a new revenue accounting standard as discussed below.
Refer to Note 2 contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 for a summary of our other significant accounting policies.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued new accounting guidance related to revenue recognition.
The new standard replaces all current U.S. GAAP guidance on this topic, eliminating all industry-specific guidance and providing a unified model to determine when and how revenue is recognized.
The core principle is that a company should recognize revenue upon the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
On January 1, 2018, we adopted the new accounting standard and related amendments (collectively, the “new revenue accounting standard”).
Refer to Note 3 for the impact of adoption on our condensed consolidated financial statements.


item2.txt
The terms “Activision Blizzard,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” are used to refer collectively to Activision Blizzard, Inc. and its subsidiaries.
Blizzard primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including subscriptions, full-game, and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Blizzard products.
Blizzard also maintains a proprietary online gaming service, Blizzard Battle.net®, which facilitates digital distribution of Blizzard content and selected Activision content, online social connectivity, and the creation of user-generated content.
Blizzard also includes the activities of the Overwatch LeagueTM, the first major global professional esports league with city-based teams, and our Major League Gaming (“MLG”) business, which is responsible for various esports events and serves as a multi-platform network for Activision Blizzard esports content.
· the Activision Blizzard Distribution (“Distribution”) business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistics, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware.
The Company’s financial results for 2018 are presented in accordance with a new revenue accounting standard that was adopted in the first quarter of 2018.
Prior period results have not been restated to reflect this change in accounting standards.
Further information about our adoption of the new standard is provided in Notes 2 and 3 of the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
· consolidated net revenues decreased 7% to $1.51 billion, while consolidated operating income increased 3% to $265 million, as compared to consolidated net revenues of $1.62 billion and consolidated operating income of $257 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017; · revenues from digital online channels were $1.28 billion, or 84% of consolidated net revenues, as compared to $1.35 billion, or 84% of consolidated net revenues, for the three months ended September 30, 2017; · consolidated net income increased 38% to $260 million, as compared to $188 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017; net income for the 2018 period included $72 million of net tax benefits from discrete tax items primarily related to updates to our accounting for the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“U.S.
· consolidated net revenues increased 3% to $5.12 billion, and consolidated operating income increased 19% to $1.29 billion, as compared to consolidated net revenues of $4.97 billion and consolidated operating income of $1.09 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2017; · revenues from digital online channels were $4.00 billion, or 78% of consolidated net revenues, as compared to $4.05 billion, or 81% of consolidated net revenues, for the nine months ended September 30, 2017; · operating margin was 25.3%, as compared to 21.9% for the nine months ended September 30, 2017; · diluted earnings per common share increased 35% to $1.51, as compared to $1.12 for the nine months ended September 30, 2017.
We monitor net bookings as a key operating metric in evaluating the performance of our business.
Net bookings is equal to net revenues excluding the impact from deferrals.
· lower net bookings from Crash Bandicoot™ N. Sane Trilogy, which was released in June 2017 on the PlayStation 4 platform, and in June 2018 on the Xbox One, PC, and Nintendo Switch platforms.


item3.txt
Primary currencies include euros, British pounds, Australian dollars, South Korean won, Chinese yuan, and Swedish krona.


item4.txt



part2.txt



