fls.txt



item1.txt
The terms “Activision Blizzard,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” are used to refer collectively to Activision Blizzard, Inc. and its subsidiaries.
MLG is responsible for the operations of the Overwatch League™, along with other esports events, and will also continue to serve as a multi-platform network for other Activision Blizzard esports content.
Activision primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including full-game and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Activision products.
Blizzard primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including subscriptions, full-game, and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Blizzard products.
As noted above, Blizzard also includes the activities of our MLG business, which is responsible for the operations of the Overwatch League, along with other esports events, and will also continue to serve as a multi-platform network for other Activision Blizzard esports content.
The year-end condensed consolidated balance sheet data was derived from audited financial statements but does not include all disclosures required by U.S. GAAP.
Accordingly, the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts and operations of the Company.
· accrued withholding tax payments related to net share settlements on restricted stock units of $26 million and $17 million, respectively.
For the three months ended March 31, 2017, our beginning and ending cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash reported within our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows include restricted cash of $17 million and $13 million, respectively.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, there were no significant changes to our accounting policies, except for our adoption of a new revenue accounting standard as discussed below.
Refer to Note 2 contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 for a summary of our other significant accounting policies.
In May 2014, the FASB issued new accounting guidance related to revenue recognition.
The new standard replaces all current U.S. GAAP guidance on this topic and eliminates all industry-specific guidance, providing a unified model to determine when and how revenue is recognized.
The core principle is that a company should recognize revenue upon the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.


item2.txt
The common stock of Activision Blizzard is traded on The Nasdaq Stock Market under the ticker symbol “ATVI.” As part of the continued implementation of our esports strategy, we instituted changes to our internal organization and reporting structure during 2017 such that the Major League Gaming (“MLG”) business operates as a division of Blizzard Entertainment, Inc. (“Blizzard”).
MLG is responsible for the operations of the Overwatch League™, along with other esports events, and will also continue to serve as a multi-platform network for other Activision Blizzard esports content.
Activision primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including full-game and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Activision products.
Blizzard primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including subscriptions, full-game, and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Blizzard products.
As noted above, Blizzard also includes the activities of our MLG business, which is responsible for the operations of the Overwatch League, along with other esports events, and will also continue to serve as a multi-platform network for other Activision Blizzard esports content.
· the Activision Blizzard Distribution (“Distribution”) business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistics, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware.
The Company’s financial results for 2018 are presented in accordance with a new revenue accounting standard that was adopted in the first quarter of 2018.
Further information about our adoption of the new standard is provided in Notes 2 and 3 of the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
· consolidated net revenues increased 14% to $1.97 billion, while consolidated operating income increased 21% to $595 million, as compared to consolidated net revenues of $1.73 billion and consolidated operating income of $493 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017; · revenues from digital online channels were $1.46 billion, or 74% of consolidated net revenues, as compared to $1.39 billion, or 80% of consolidated net revenues, for the three months ended March 31, 2017; · operating margin was 30.3%, as compared with 28.6% for the three months ended March 31, 2017; · diluted earnings per common share increased 16% to $0.65, as compared to $0.56 for the three months ended March 31, 2017.
The following operating metrics are key performance indicators that we use to evaluate our business.
The increase was partially offset by lower net bookings from Overwatch, which was released in May 2016.
We calculate average MAUs in a period by adding the total number of MAUs in each of the months in a given period and dividing that total by the number of months in the period.


item3.txt
We monitor currency volatility throughout the year.
To mitigate our foreign currency risk resulting from our foreign currency-denominated monetary assets, liabilities, and earnings and our foreign currency risk related to functional currency-equivalent cash flows resulting from our intercompany transactions, we periodically enter into currency derivative contracts, principally forward contracts.


item4.txt



part2.txt



