fls.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains, or incorporates by reference, certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


item1.txt
The terms “Activision Blizzard,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” are used to refer collectively to Activision Blizzard, Inc. and its subsidiaries.
As part of this termination, Activision agreed to transfer its publishing rights for the Destiny franchise to Bungie in exchange for cash and Bungie’s assumption of on-going customer obligations of Activision.
Blizzard primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including subscriptions, full-game, and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Blizzard products.
Blizzard also maintains a proprietary online gaming service, Blizzard Battle.net®, which facilitates digital distribution of Blizzard content and selected Activision content, online social connectivity, and the creation of user-generated content.
King’s games are free to play; however, players can acquire in-game items, either with virtual currency or real currency, and we continue to focus on in-game advertising as a growing source of additional revenue.
•the Activision Blizzard Distribution (“Distribution”) business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistics, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware.
Accordingly, the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts and operations of the Company.
Income tax expense for the three months and year ended December 31, 2018 should have been reduced by $35 million.
This amount is not material to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2018, and we will revise our 2018 consolidated financial statements to correct this matter in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2019.
Our condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2018, as presented in this Form 10-Q, has been revised to reflect the correction of this error.
The new standard replaces all current U.S. GAAP guidance on this topic.
The new standard, among other things, requires a lessee to classify a lease as either an operating or financing lease, and to recognize a lease liability and a right-of-use (“ROU”) asset for its leases.


item2.txt
Item 2.
We develop and distribute content and services on video game consoles, personal computers (“PC”s), and mobile devices.
The terms “Activision Blizzard,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” are used to refer collectively to Activision Blizzard, Inc. and its subsidiaries.
In 2010, Activision entered into an exclusive relationship with Bungie, Inc. (“Bungie”) to publish games in the Destiny franchise.
Blizzard primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including subscriptions, full-game, and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Blizzard products.
King’s games are free to play; however, players can acquire in-game items, either with virtual currency or real currency, and we continue to focus on in-game advertising as a growing source of additional revenue.
•the Activision Blizzard Distribution (“Distribution”) business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistics, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware.
The following operating metrics are key performance indicators that we use to evaluate our business.
We monitor net bookings as a key operating metric in evaluating the performance of our business.
Net bookings is equal to net revenues excluding the impact from deferrals.
In-game net bookings primarily includes the net amount of downloadable content and microtransactions sold during the period, and is equal to in-game net revenues excluding the impact from deferrals.
Q3 2019 vs. Q3 2018 YTD Q3 2019 vs. YTD Q3 2018 Q3 2019 vs. Q3 2018 The decrease in in-game net bookings for the three months ended September 30, 2019, as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018, was primarily due to a decrease in Blizzard and Activision in-game net bookings of $183 million and $113 million, respectively, due to the same drivers discussed for net bookings above.
YTD Q3 2019 vs. YTD Q3 2018 MAUs are the number of individuals who accessed a particular game in a given month.


item3.txt
Primary currencies include euros, British pounds, Australian dollars, South Korean won, Chinese yuan, and Swedish krona.
We monitor currency volatility throughout the year.


item4.txt



part2.txt



