Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by U.S. GAAP to be included in full year financial statements.
These interim financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Assets and liabilities of such subsidiary have been translated at the end of period exchange rates, and related revenues and expenses have been translated at the weighted average exchange rates with the resulting translation gain or loss recorded in "Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax", in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
As of March 31, 2018, $196 thousand of the accrued product warranty liability is classified as current in "Accrued liabilities" in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and the remaining $82 thousand is classified as non-current in "Other liabilities".
The computation of diluted earnings per share excludes the effect of the potential exercise of stock awards, including stock options and restricted stock units, when the average market price of the common stock is lower than the exercise price of the related stock award during the period.
For the three months ended March 31, 2018, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per share, totaling $673 thousand, which was paid on March 15, 2018 to common shareholders of record at the close of business on February 20, 2018.
The effective tax rate in the first quarter of 2018 was lower than the first quarter 2017 effective tax rate due to the passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Tax Reform Act") enacted on December 22, 2017.
The new standard requires lessees to apply a dual approach, classifying leases as either finance or operating leases based on the principle of whether or not the lease is effectively a financed purchase by the lessee.
This classification will determine whether lease expense is recognized based on an effective interest method or on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease, respectively.TransAct Technologies Incorporated ("TransAct") is a global leader in developing and selling software-driven technology and printing solutions for high growth markets including restaurant solutions, point of sale ("POS") automation and banking, casino and gaming, lottery, mobile and oil and gas.
Through our TransAct Services Group ("TSG"), we provide a complete range of supplies and consumables used in the printing and scanning activities of customers in the restaurant and hospitality, banking, retail, casino and gaming, government and oil and gas exploration markets.
We operate in one reportable segment, the design, development, and marketing of software-driven technology and printing solutions for high growth markets, and provide related services, supplies and spare parts.
Printer and terminal sales volume decreased 28% to approximately 31 thousand units driven primarily by an 80% decrease in unit volume from the lottery market and a 29% decrease in unit volume in the POS automation and banking market.
These decreases were partially offset by increases in unit volume of 6% from the casino and gaming market and 87% from the restaurant solutions market.
The average selling price of our printers and terminals increased 15% in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the first quarter of 2017. International sales for the first quarter of 2018 decreased $1.4 million, or 41%, from the same period in 2017 primarily due to a decrease in sales in the international lottery market and to a lesser extent a 14% decrease in the international casino and gaming market.
We expect sales of our restaurant solutions terminals to increase in 2018 compared to 2017 as we benefit from the strategic selling and marketing investments implemented during 2017.
The decrease in domestic POS automation and banking product revenue in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the first quarter of 2017 was primarily driven by a 27% decrease in domestic sales of our Ithaca® 9000 printer, as sales to McDonald's slowed compared to the record pace experienced in 2016 and the first quarter of 2017.
We expect sales to McDonald's to decrease for the full year 2018 compared to the full year 2017, as McDonald's completes the implementation of initiatives that use the Ithaca 9000, which began in 2015.Item 1.