Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by U.S. GAAP to be included in full year financial statements.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments considered necessary for a fair statement of the results for the periods presented have been included and are of a normal recurring nature.
The Company expects to recognize revenue on $3.8 million of its remaining performance obligations within the next 12 months, $0.4 million within the next 24 months and the balance of these remaining performance obligations within the next 36 months.
As of June 30, 2019, $176 thousand of the accrued product warranty liability were classified as current in "Accrued liabilities" in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and the remaining $48 thousand was classified as non-current in "Other liabilities".
The computation of diluted earnings per share excludes the effect of the potential exercise of stock awards, including stock options and restricted stock units, when the average market price of the common stock is lower than the exercise price of the related stock award during the period.
These outstanding stock awards are not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the effect would be anti-dilutive.TransAct is a global leader in developing and selling software-driven technology and printing solutions for high growth markets including restaurant solutions, point of sale (“POS”) automation and banking, casino and gaming, lottery, and oil and gas.
Through our TransAct Services Group (“TSG”), we provide a complete range of supplies and consumables used in the printing and scanning activities of customers in the restaurant and hospitality, banking, retail, casino and gaming, government and oil and gas exploration markets.
We operate in one reportable segment, the design, development, and marketing of software-driven technology and printing solutions for high growth markets, and provide related services, supplies and spare parts.
The average selling price of our printers, terminals and other hardware remained consistent during the second quarter of 2019 compared to the second quarter of 2018. International sales for the second quarter of 2019 decreased $0.8 million, or 23%, from the same period in 2018 due primarily to a 27% decrease in sales in the international casino and gaming market.
terminal sales to two large corporate customers in the second quarter of 2018 that did not reoccur in the second quarter of 2019. software recognized on a SaaS subscription basis increased by 24% in the second quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2019.
The decrease in both domestic and international POS automation and banking product revenue for the second quarter of 2019 compared to the second quarter of 2018 was primarily driven by a 26% decrease in sales of our Ithaca® 9000 printer, largely to McDonald’s.
This decrease was partially offset by a slight increase in domestic sales of our thermal casino printer during the second quarter of 2019 compared to the second quarter of 2018.
The decrease in domestic revenue from TSG for the second quarter of 2019 as compared to the prior year period was due primarily to 49% lower sales of replacement parts including lower sales of lottery printer spare parts to IGT.
This decrease was partially offset by increases in our service revenue of 49% and label sales related to our restaurant solutions products of 131%.
Internationally, TSG revenue increased for the second quarter of 2019 compared to the second quarter of 2018 primarily due to a 50% increase in sales of replacement parts and accessories to international casino and gaming customers.
For the second quarter of 2019, gross profit decreased $1.3 million, or 18%, due to a 23% decline in sales during the second quarter of 2019 compared to the second quarter of 2018.The Company may, in the ordinary course of business, become a party to litigation involving collection matters, contract claims and other legal proceedings relating to the conduct of its business.