Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by U.S. GAAP to be included in full year financial statements.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments considered necessary for a fair statement of the results for the periods presented have been included and are of a normal recurring nature.
These interim financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2018 included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K.
As of March 31, 2019, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations was $5.1 million.
The Company expects to recognize revenue on $4.3 million of its remaining performance obligations within the next 12 months, $0.7 million within the next 24 months and the balance of these remaining performance obligations within the next 36 months.
As of March 31, 2019, $199 thousand of the accrued product warranty liability were classified as current in "Accrued liabilities" in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and the remaining $54 thousand was classified as non-current in "Other liabilities".
The computation of diluted earnings per share excludes the effect of the potential exercise of stock awards, including stock options and restricted stock units, when the average market price of the common stock is lower than the exercise price of the related stock award during the period.TransAct is a global leader in developing and selling software-driven technology and printing solutions for high growth markets including restaurant solutions, point of sale (“POS”) automation and banking, casino and gaming, lottery, and oil and gas.
We also offer world-class service, support, spare parts, accessories and printing supplies to our growing worldwide base of products currently in use by our customers.
Through our TransAct Services Group (“TSG”), we provide a complete range of supplies and consumables used in the printing and scanning activities of customers in the restaurant and hospitality, banking, retail, casino and gaming, government and oil and gas exploration markets.
We operate in one reportable segment, the design, development, and marketing of software-driven technology and printing solutions for high growth markets, and provide related services, supplies and spare parts.
Printer, terminal and other hardware sales volume decreased 11% to approximately 28,000 units driven primarily by a 27% decrease in unit volume from the POS automation and banking market and a 5% decrease in unit volume in the casino and gaming market.
International sales for the first quarter of 2019 increased $0.5 million, or 23%, from the same period in 2018 primarily due to increased sales in the international casino and gaming market.
The decrease in domestic restaurant solutions revenue for the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018 was driven largely by lower sales of our AccuDate 9700 terminal to our former U.S. distributor.
The decrease in domestic POS automation and banking product revenue for the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018 was primarily driven by a 24% decrease in domestic sales of our Ithaca® 9000 printer, as sales to McDonald’s decreased for the first quarter of 2019 compared to the same period in 2018.
We expect sales of our Ithaca® 9000 to McDonald’s to decrease in 2019 compared to 2018. International casino and gaming product sales increased for the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018 due to a 77% increase in sales of our thermal casino printers largely to customers in Asia.
This increase was partially offset by a 70% decline in international sales of our off-premise gaming printers to Europe, Australia and Asia.Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer (our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, respectively), evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of March 31, 2019.Item 1.