item1.txt
In the opinion of management, the information furnished in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements reflects all normal recurring adjustments that are necessary to fairly state the results for these interim periods and should be read in conjunction with Analog Devices, Inc.’s (the Company) Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 3, 2018 (fiscal 2018) and related notes.
As a result of the adoption of ASU 2014-09, the Company changed its accounting policy for revenue recognition and recognizes revenue from product sales to its customers and distributors when title passes, which is generally upon shipment.
The adoption of ASU 2014-09 impacted the Company’s condensed consolidated statements of income and balance sheets but did not impact its condensed consolidated statements of cash flows, with the exceptions of net income and reclassifications within adjustments to reconcile net income to cash provided by operations, and did not impact the condensed consolidated statement of shareholders' equity, with the exceptions of retained earnings and net income.
The Company estimates $2.3 million, net of tax, of losses of forward foreign currency derivative instruments included in OCI will be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months.
As of November 3, 2018, the Company held 15 investment securities, 15 of which were in an unrealized loss position with immaterial gross unrealized losses and an aggregate fair value of $205.0 million.
The categorization of revenue by end market is determined using a variety of data points including the technical characteristics of the product, the “sold to” customer information, the “ship to” customer information and the end customer product or application into which the Company’s product will be incorporated.
The Company defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or be paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
The tables below, set forth by level, presents the Company’s financial assets and liabilities, excluding accrued interest components that were accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis as of May 4, 2019 and November 3, 2018.
Forward foreign currency exchange contracts — The estimated fair value of forward foreign currency exchange contracts, which includes derivatives that are accounted for as cash flow hedges and those that are not designated as cash flow hedges, is based on the estimated amount the Company would receive if it sold these agreements at the reporting date taking into consideration current interest rates as well as the creditworthiness of the counterparty for assets and the Company’s creditworthiness for liabilities.
Foreign Exchange Exposure Management — The Company enters into forward foreign currency exchange contracts to offset certain operational and balance sheet exposures from the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
Such exposures result from the portion of the Company’s operations, assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, primarily the Euro; other significant exposures include the Philippine Peso, the Japanese Yen and the British Pound.
As the terms of the contract and the underlying transaction are matched at inception, forward contract effectiveness is calculated by comparing the change in fair value of the contract to the change in the forward value of the anticipated transaction, with the gain or loss on the derivative reported as a component of accumulated OCI in shareholders’ equity and reclassified into earnings in the same period during which the hedged transaction affects earnings.
Additionally, the Company enters into forward foreign currency contracts that economically hedge the gains and losses generated by the re-measurement of certain recorded assets and liabilities in a non-functional currency.
Derivative assets and liabilities that can be net settled under these arrangements have been presented in the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheet on a net basis.
The fair value of this hedge was $51.6 million as of May 4, 2019 and is included within accrued liabilities in the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets.
The market risk associated with the Company’s derivative instruments results from currency exchange rate or interest rate movements that are expected to offset the market risk of the underlying transactions, assets and liabilities being hedged.
The counterparties to the agreements relating to the Company’s derivative instruments consist of a number of major international financial institutions with high credit ratings.
While the contract or notional amounts of derivative financial instruments provide one measure of the volume of these transactions, they do not represent the amount of the Company’s exposure to credit risk.
The Company records the fair value of its derivative financial instruments in its condensed consolidated financial statements in other current assets, other assets, accrued liabilities and other non-current liabilities, depending on their net position, regardless of the purpose or intent for holding the derivative contract.
Changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges are recorded in OCI and reclassified into earnings in the same line item on the condensed consolidated statement of income as the impact of the hedged transaction when the underlying contract matures and, for interest rate exposure derivatives, over the term of the corresponding debt instrument.
For information on the unrealized holding gains (losses) on derivatives included in and reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income into the condensed consolidated statement of income related to forward foreign currency exchange contracts, see Note 4, Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss), in these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.
The Tax Legislation reduced the U.S. statutory tax rate from 35.0% to 21.0%, effective January 1, 2018, which resulted in a blended statutory income tax rate for the Company of 23.4% for fiscal 2018.
In fiscal 2018, the Company recorded a provisional tax benefit of $637.0 million for the re-measurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the rates to which they are expected to reverse in the future, which is generally 21.0%.
As part of transitioning to the territorial tax system, the Tax Legislation included a one-time transition tax based on the Company's total post-1986 undistributed foreign earnings and profits that were previously deferred from U.S. income tax.
In fiscal 2018, the Company recorded a provisional tax expense amount for the one-time transition tax of $691.0 million, which is comprised of the $755.0 million transition tax liability less a deferred tax liability of $64.0 million that was recorded in prior years.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company adjusted its provisional net charge by recording an additional tax benefit of $7.5 million for a change to its estimate for the transition tax due to the finalization of the aggregate foreign cash positions.
The Company adopted ASU 2016-16 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 using the modified retrospective method with a cumulative-effect adjustment directly to retained earnings.
The adoption of ASU 2016-16 resulted in a net cumulative-effect adjustment that resulted in an increase in retained earnings of $331.0 million, by recording new deferred tax assets from intra-entity transfers involving assets other than inventory, partially offset by a U.S. deferred tax liability related to GILTI.
Therefore, the Company has not recorded any additional tax liability related to fiscal 2013 or any other periods.
If Irish Revenue were ultimately to prevail with respect to its assessment for fiscal 2013, such assessment and any potential impact related to years subsequent to 2013 could have a material unfavorable impact on the Company's income tax expense and net earnings in future periods.
As a result of the adoption of ASU 2014-09 the Company changed its accounting policy for revenue recognition.
See Note 1, Basis of Presentation, and Note 2, Revenue Recognition, in these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for details of the impact of ASU 2014-09 on the Company's financial statements.
The Company adopted ASU 2016-16 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 using the modified retrospective method with a cumulative-effect adjustment directly to retained earnings.
The adoption of ASU 2016-16 resulted in a net cumulative-effect adjustment that resulted in an increase in retained earnings of $331.0 million, by recording new deferred tax assets from intra-entity transfers involving assets other than inventory, partially offset by a U.S. deferred tax liability related to GILTI.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact adoption will have on its financial position and results of operations and expects that there will be an increase in assets and liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at adoption due to the recognition of right-of-use assets and related lease liabilities.
The Company does not expect the adoption of ASU 2016-02, ASU 2018-01 and ASU 2018-11 to have a material impact on its results of operations.
The Company is currently evaluating the adoption date and the impact, if any, adoption will have on its financial position and results of operations.
We rely on information technology systems throughout our company to keep financial records and customer data, process orders, manage inventory, coordinate shipments to customers, maintain confidential and proprietary information, assist in semiconductor engineering and other technical activities and operate other critical functions such as Internet connectivity, network communications and email.
If we were to experience a prolonged disruption in the information technology systems that involve our internal communications or our interactions with customers or suppliers, it could result in the loss of sales and customers and significant incremental costs, which could adversely affect our business.
A prolonged disruption at, or inability to utilize, one or more of our manufacturing facilities, loss of raw materials or damage to our manufacturing equipment for any reason, including due to natural or man-made disasters, civil unrest or other events outside of our control, such as widespread outbreaks of illness or the failure to maintain our labor force at one or more of these facilities, may disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in us being unable to timely satisfy customer demand.
As a result, we could forgo revenue opportunities, potentially lose market share and damage our customer relationships, all of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Our significant existing indebtedness could also have the effect, among other things, of reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions, reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes or creating competitive disadvantages relative to other companies with lower debt levels.
Any prolonged inability to utilize one of our manufacturing facilities, or those of our subcontractors or third-party wafer fabrication foundries, as a result of fire, flood, natural disaster, unavailability of utilities or otherwise, could result in a temporary or permanent loss of customers for affected products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.
While we expect to continue to expand our business and operations in China, our success in the Chinese markets may be adversely affected by China’s continuously evolving policies, laws and regulations, including those relating to trade, taxation, import and export tariffs or restrictions, currency controls, antitrust, cybersecurity and data protection, the environment, indigenous innovation and the promotion of a domestic semiconductor industry, and intellectual property rights and enforcement and protection of those rights.
In addition, changes in the political environment, governmental policies, international trade policies and relations, or U.S.-China relations could result in revisions to laws or regulations or their interpretation and enforcement, exposure of our proprietary intellectual property, increased taxation, trade sanctions, the imposition of import duties or tariffs, restrictions on imports or exports, currency revaluations, or retaliatory actions , which could have an adverse effect on our business plans and operating results.
If we are unable to address our U.S. cash requirements through operations, borrowings under our current revolving credit facility, future debt or equity offerings or other sources of cash obtained at an acceptable cost, it may be necessary for us to consider repatriation of earnings that are indefinitely reinvested, and we may be required to pay additional taxes under current tax laws, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.
Our current revolving credit facility, term loans and outstanding debt instruments impose, and future debt instruments to which we may become subject may impose, restrictions that limit our ability to engage in activities that could otherwise benefit our Company, including to undertake certain transactions, to create certain liens on our assets and to incur certain subsidiary indebtedness.
Our ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond our control such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and changes in technology, government regulations and the level of competition.


item2.txt
Industrial end market revenues decreased in the three-month period ended May 4, 2019, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, primarily as a result of a decrease in demand for products sold into the automation and memory test sectors of this end market, partially offset by an increase in demand for products sold into the aerospace and defense sector of this end market.
Consumer end market revenues decreased in the three-month period ended May 4, 2019, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year as a result of decreased demand for products used in portable consumer applications.
Communications end market revenue increased in the three-month period ended May 4, 2019, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, primarily as a result of an increase in demand for our products sold into the wireless sector and to a lesser extent wireline sector of this end market.
Industrial end market revenues decreased in the six-month period ended May 4, 2019, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, as a result of one less week of operations in the first six months of fiscal 2019, as compared to the first six months of fiscal 2018, and a decrease in demand for products sold into the automation and memory test sectors of this end market, partially offset by an increase in demand for products sold into the aerospace and defense sector of this end market.
Consumer end market revenues decreased in the six-month period ended May 4, 2019, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year as a result of decreased demand for products used in portable consumer applications and one less week of operations in the first six months of fiscal 2019 as compared to the first six months of fiscal 2018.
Communications end market revenue increased in the six-month period ended May 4, 2019, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, as a result of an increase in demand for our products sold into the wireless sector and to a lesser extent wireline sector of this end market, partially offset by one less week of operations in the first six months of fiscal 2019 as compared to the first six months of fiscal 2018.
The year-over-year decrease in nonoperating expense in the three- and six-month periods ended May 4, 2019 was primarily the result of a decrease in interest expense including lower amortized finance fees, which were accelerated as a result of principal repayments related to our 3-year term loan, partially offset by an increase in other, net expenses, primarily resulting from the impairment of an investment recognized in the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
This revenue generated outside of the U.S. results in a material portion of our pretax income being taxed outside the U.S. For the six-month period ended May 4, 2019 this pretax income was primarily in Ireland and Singapore, at tax rates ranging from 12.5% to 17% in these jurisdictions.
Net income decreased in the three-month period ended May 4, 2019, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, as a result of a $32.9 million decrease in operating income and a $0.7 million increase in provision for income taxes, partially offset by a $1.1 million decrease in nonoperating expense.
Net income increased in the six-month period ended May 4, 2019 as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, as a result of a $36.5 million decrease in provision for income taxes and a $11.7 million decrease in nonoperating expense, partially offset by a $18.9 million decrease in operating income.
The decrease in cash provided by operating activities during the six-month period ended May 4, 2019, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, was primarily the result of changes in working capital partially offset by higher net income and a reduction in non-cash items primarily related to deferred income tax adjustments related to the Tax Legislation.
Cash used for investing activities during the six-month period ended May 4, 2019, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, remained flat, as increased capital spending was offset by decreased payments for acquisitions.
Except for the accounting policy for revenue recognition that was updated as a result of adopting ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASU 2014-09), there were no other material changes in the six-month period ended May 4, 2019 to the information provided under the heading “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in the section entitled "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 3, 2018.


part2.txt
Continuing uncertainty regarding the stability of global credit and financial markets may lead consumers and businesses to postpone spending, which may cause our customers to cancel, decrease or delay their existing and future orders for our products and make it difficult for us to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities.
In addition, financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers, distributors or customers could result in product delays, increased accounts receivable defaults and inventory challenges.
If economic conditions deteriorate, we may record additional charges relating to restructuring costs or the impairment of assets and our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.
Our acquisition of Linear Technology Corporation (Linear) and the integration of its business, operations and employees with our own may be more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected, and the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the acquisition may not be fully realized, which could adversely impact our business operations, financial condition and results of operations.
We rely on information technology systems throughout our company to keep financial records and customer data, process orders, manage inventory, coordinate shipments to customers, maintain confidential and proprietary information, assist in semiconductor engineering and other technical activities and operate other critical functions such as Internet connectivity, network communications and email.
If we were to experience a prolonged disruption in the information technology systems that involve our internal communications or our interactions with customers or suppliers, it could result in the loss of sales and customers and significant incremental costs, which could adversely affect our business.
Long-term contracts are not typical for us, and incorrect forecasts or reductions, cancellations or delays in orders for our products could adversely affect our operating results.
In addition, these suppliers often provide manufacturing services to our competitors and therefore periods of increased industry demand may result in capacity constraints.
If our suppliers are unable or unwilling to manufacture and deliver components to us on the time schedule and of the quality or quantity that we require or provide us with required manufacturing processes, we may be forced to seek to engage additional or replacement suppliers, which could result in additional expenses and delays in product development or shipment of product to our customers.
If additional or replacement suppliers or manufacturing processes are not available, we may also experience delays in product development or shipment which could, in turn, result in the temporary or permanent loss of customers.
A prolonged disruption at, or inability to utilize, one or more of our manufacturing facilities, loss of raw materials or damage to our manufacturing equipment for any reason, including due to natural or man-made disasters, civil unrest or other events outside of our control, such as widespread outbreaks of illness or the failure to maintain our labor force at one or more of these facilities, may disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in us being unable to timely satisfy customer demand.
As a result, we could forgo revenue opportunities, potentially lose market share and damage our customer relationships, all of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
If we expand our operations and workforce too rapidly or procure excessive resources in anticipation of increased demand for our products, and that demand does not materialize at the pace at which we expect, or declines, or if we overbuild inventory in a period of decreased demand, our operating results may be adversely affected as a result of increased operating expenses, reduced margins, underutilization of capacity or asset impairment charges.
In addition, we may not be able to expand our workforce and operations in a sufficiently timely manner, procure adequate resources and raw materials, locate suitable third-party suppliers, or respond effectively to changes in demand for our existing products or to demand for new products requested by our customers, and our current or future business could be materially and adversely affected.
This instability could result in manufacturing delays and product shortages, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.
The inability to attract, hire and retain key employees with critical technical skills to achieve our strategy, including as a result of changes to immigration policies, could also have a material adverse effect on our business.
tsunamis, flooding or other natural disasters may disrupt local semiconductor-related businesses and adversely affect manufacturing capacity, availability and cost of key raw materials, utilities and equipment, and availability of key services, including transport of our products worldwide.
Any prolonged inability to utilize one of our manufacturing facilities, or those of our subcontractors or third-party wafer fabrication foundries, as a result of fire, flood, natural disaster, unavailability of utilities or otherwise, could result in a temporary or permanent loss of customers for affected products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.
While we expect to continue to expand our business and operations in China, our success in the Chinese markets may be adversely affected by China’s continuously evolving policies, laws and regulations, including those relating to trade, taxation, import and export tariffs or restrictions, currency controls, antitrust, cybersecurity and data protection, the environment, indigenous innovation and the promotion of a domestic semiconductor industry, and intellectual property rights and enforcement and protection of those rights.
In addition, changes in the political environment, governmental policies, international trade policies and relations, or U.S.-China relations could result in revisions to laws or regulations or their interpretation and enforcement, exposure of our proprietary intellectual property, increased taxation, trade sanctions, the imposition of import duties or tariffs, restrictions on imports or exports, currency revaluations, or retaliatory actions , which could have an adverse effect on our business plans and operating results.
If we are unable to address our U.S. cash requirements through operations, borrowings under our current revolving credit facility, future debt or equity offerings or other sources of cash obtained at an acceptable cost, it may be necessary for us to consider repatriation of earnings that are indefinitely reinvested, and we may be required to pay additional taxes under current tax laws, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.
Termination of a significant distributor or a group of distributors, whether at our initiative or the distributor’s initiative or through consolidation in the distribution industry, could disrupt our current business, and if we are unable to find suitable replacements with the appropriate scale and resources, our operating results could be adversely affected.
Our ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond our control such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and changes in technology, government regulations and the level of competition.


