item1.txt
In the opinion of management, the information furnished in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements reflects all normal recurring adjustments that are necessary to fairly state the results for these interim periods and should be read in conjunction with Analog Devices, Inc.’s (the Company) Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 28, 2017 (fiscal 2017) and related notes.
The Company defers revenue and the related cost of sales on shipments to U.S. distributors and certain international distributors until the distributors resell the products to their customers.
As a result, the Company’s revenue fully reflects end customer purchases and is not impacted by distributor inventory levels.
Sales to certain of these distributors are made under agreements that allow such distributors to receive price-adjustment credits, as discussed below, and to return qualifying products for credit, as determined by the Company, in order to reduce the amounts of slow-moving, discontinued or obsolete product from their inventory.
Certain distributors are granted price-adjustment credits for sales to their customers when the distributor’s standard cost (i.e., the Company’s sales price to the distributor) does not provide the distributor with an appropriate margin on its sales to its customers.
Therefore, the Company defers revenue recognition from sales to certain distributors until the distributors have sold the products to their customers.
The deferred costs of sales to distributors have historically had very little risk of impairment due to the margins the Company earns on sales of its products and the relatively long life-cycle of the Company’s products.
In addition, price protection and price-adjustment credits granted to distributors historically have not exceeded the margins the Company earns on sales of its products.
During the three- and nine-month periods ended August 4, 2018, the total intrinsic value of options exercised (i.e., the difference between the market price at exercise and the price paid by the employee to exercise the options) was $29.3 million and $111.9 million, respectively, and the total amount of proceeds received by the Company from the exercise of these options was $22.8 million and $88.4 million, respectively.
The Company estimates $4.5 million, net of tax, of losses of forward foreign currency derivative instruments included in OCI will be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months.
The categorization of revenue by end market is determined using a variety of data points including the technical characteristics of the product, the “sold to” customer information, the “ship to” customer information and the end customer product or application into which the Company’s product will be incorporated.
The Company defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or be paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
The tables below, set forth by level, presents the Company’s financial assets and liabilities, excluding accrued interest components that are accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis as of August 4, 2018 and October 28, 2017.
In addition to the above, the Company has recognized contingent consideration payable at fair value (Level 3 measurement) of $7.6 million and $7.8 million as of August 4, 2018 and October 28, 2017, respectively.
Forward foreign currency exchange contracts — The estimated fair value of forward foreign currency exchange contracts, which includes derivatives that are accounted for as cash flow hedges and those that are not designated as cash flow hedges, is based on the estimated amount the Company would receive if it sold these agreements at the reporting date taking into consideration current interest rates as well as the creditworthiness of the counterparty for assets and the Company’s creditworthiness for liabilities.
Foreign Exchange Exposure Management — The Company enters into forward foreign currency exchange contracts to offset certain operational and balance sheet exposures from the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
Additionally, the Company enters into forward foreign currency contracts that economically hedge the gains and losses generated by the re-measurement of certain recorded assets and liabilities in a non-functional currency.
The fair value of these hedging instruments in the Company’s condensed consolidated balance sheet was immaterial as of August 4, 2018 and was a liability of $1.8 million as of October 28, 2017.
The market risk associated with the Company’s derivative instruments results from currency exchange rate or interest rate movements that are expected to offset the market risk of the underlying transactions, assets and liabilities being hedged.
The Company records the fair value of its derivative financial instruments in its condensed consolidated financial statements in other current assets, other assets or accrued liabilities, depending on their net position, regardless of the purpose or intent for holding the derivative contract.
While a portion of the calculation to record inventory at its net realizable value is based on the age of the inventory and lower of cost or market calculations, a key factor in estimating obsolete or excess inventory requires the Company to estimate the future demand for its products.
The results of operations of Linear from the Acquisition Date are included in the Company’s condensed consolidated statements of income, condensed consolidated balance sheet, and condensed consolidated statement of cash flows for the three- and nine-month periods ended August 4, 2018 and July 29, 2017.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company recorded acquisition accounting adjustments of $1.6 million to goodwill comprised of $4.7 million to intangible assets, $2.7 million to accounts receivable, $2.4 million to assumed liabilities and $1.1 million to deferred tax liabilities.
The following unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information combines the unaudited results of the Company for the three- and nine-month periods ended July 29, 2017 and the unaudited results of Linear for the three- and nine-month periods ended July 29, 2017 and assumes that the Acquisition, which closed on March 10, 2017, was completed on November 1, 2015 (the first day of fiscal 2016).
The pro forma consolidated financial information has been calculated after applying the Company’s accounting policies and includes adjustments for amortization expense of acquired intangible assets, transaction-related costs, a step-up in the value of acquired inventory and property, plant and equipment, compensation expense for ongoing share-based compensation arrangements replaced and interest expense for the debt incurred to fund the Acquisition, together with the consequential tax effects.
In addition, these results are not intended to be a projection of future results and do not reflect events that may occur after the Acquisition, including but not limited to revenue enhancements, cost savings or operating synergies that the combined Company may achieve as a result of the Acquisition.
The Company has not provided pro forma results of operations for any other acquisitions completed in the three- and nine-month periods ended August 4, 2018 or July 29, 2017 herein as they were not material to the Company on either an individual or an aggregate basis.
The Company included the results of operations of each acquisition in its consolidated statement of income from the date of each acquisition.
The Tax Legislation reduced the U.S. statutory tax rate from 35.0% to 21.0%, effective January 1, 2018, which results in a blended statutory income tax rate for the Company of 23.4% for fiscal 2018.
In the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company recorded a $639.7 million discrete tax benefit for the re-measurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the rates at which they are expected to reverse in the future, which is generally 21.0%.
This provisional estimate may be impacted by a number of additional considerations, including, but not limited to, the issuance of final tax regulations, the Company's ongoing analysis of the Tax Legislation, the Company's earnings and profits subject to the one-time transition tax, and estimated earnings and profits and foreign tax credit pools for fiscal 2018 as well as the amount of earnings and profits held in cash or other specified assets.
In accordance with SAB 118, the amount reported for the tax benefit from re-measuring the Company’s net deferred tax liabilities to the lower 21.0% statutory rate and the amount reported for the additional U.S. income tax resulting from the one-time mandatory deemed repatriation including the ongoing evaluation of the impact on the Company’s indefinite reinvestment assertions regarding undistributed earnings and profits, represents the Company's best estimate as it continues to accumulate and process data to finalize its underlying calculations and to review further guidance that regulators are expected to issue.
The Company has numerous audits ongoing at any time throughout the world, including an Internal Revenue Service income tax audit for Linear’s pre-acquisition fiscal year 2015, various U.S. state and local tax audits, and transfer pricing audits in Spain, the Philippines and Ireland.
The adoption of ASU 2015-11 in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 did not impact the Company's financial position or results of operations.
The impact of the adoption on the Company's financial position and results of operations will be dependent upon any future acquisitions or disposals.
The Company has reviewed its revenue streams, including those from the Acquisition, and is nearing completion in assessing all potential impacts of the standard on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures, including any impacts from recently issued 
While the Company is still in the process of completing its evaluation of the standard, it currently believes the most significant impact will be related to the timing of recognition of sales to certain distributors.
As described in Note 2, Revenue Recognition, of these Notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements, the Company currently defers revenue and the related cost of sales on shipments to certain distributors until the distributors resell the products to their customers.
Upon adoption of ASU 2014-09, the Company will no longer be permitted to defer revenue until sale by the distributor to the end customer, but rather, will be required to estimate the effects of returns and allowances provided to distributors and record revenue at the time of sale to the distributor.
Our significant existing indebtedness could also have the effect, among other things, of reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions, reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes or creating competitive disadvantages relative to other companies with lower debt levels.
We rely on information technology systems throughout our company to keep financial records and customer data, process orders, manage inventory, coordinate shipments to customers, maintain confidential and proprietary information, assist in semiconductor engineering and other technical activities and operate other critical functions such as Internet connectivity, network communications and email.
Any prolonged inability to utilize one of our manufacturing facilities, or those of our subcontractors or third-party wafer fabrication foundries, as a result of fire, flood, natural disaster, unavailability of utilities or otherwise, could result in a temporary or permanent loss of customers for affected products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.
If we are unable to address our U.S. cash requirements through operations, borrowings under our current revolving credit facility, future debt or equity offerings or other sources of cash obtained at an acceptable cost, it may be necessary for us to consider repatriation of earnings that are indefinitely reinvested, and we may be required to accrue and pay foreign withholding and U.S. income taxes under current tax laws as revised by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.
Our current revolving credit facility, term loans and outstanding debt instruments impose, and future debt instruments to which we may become subject may impose, restrictions that limit our ability to engage in activities that could otherwise benefit our Company, including to undertake certain transactions, to create certain liens on our assets and to incur certain subsidiary indebtedness.


item2.txt
Industrial - Industrial end market revenue increased in the three-month period ended August 4, 2018, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, primarily as a result of a broad-based increase in demand for our products in this end market.
Industrial end market revenue increased in the nine-month period ended August 4, 2018, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, primarily as a result of the Acquisition, a broad-based increase in demand for our products in this end market and an additional week of operations in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 as compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2017.
Automotive -  Automotive end market revenue increased in the three-month period ended August 4, 2018, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, primarily as a result of a broad-based increase in demand for our products in this end market.
Consumer - Consumer end market revenue decreased in the three-month period ended August 4, 2018, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, primarily as a result of a decreased demand for products used in portable consumer applications.
Consumer end market revenue decreased in the nine-month period ended August 4, 2018, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, primarily as a result of a decreased demand for products used in portable consumer applications, partially offset by an increase in revenue due to the Acquisition, which was not significant, and an additional week of operations in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 as compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2017.
Communications - Communications end market revenue increased in the three-month period ended August 4, 2018, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year as a result of a broad-based increase in demand for our products sold into this end market.
Communications end market revenue increased in the nine-month period ended August 4, 2018, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, primarily as a result of the Acquisition, a broad-based increase in demand for our products in this end market and an additional week of operations in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 as compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2017.
The sales decrease in the United States in the three-month period ended August 4, 2018, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, was primarily a result of a decrease in demand for our products sold into the Consumer end market, partially offset by an increase in demand for our products sold into the Industrial end market.
The sales increase in Europe in the three-month period ended August 4, 2018, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, was primarily a result of an increase in demand for our products sold into the Industrial and Communications end markets.
The sales increase in Europe in the nine-month period ended August 4, 2018, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, was primarily a result of the Acquisition, an increase in demand for our products sold into the Industrial and Communications end markets and an additional week of operations in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 as compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2017, partially offset by a decrease in demand for our products sold into the Automotive end market.
The sales increase in Japan in the three-month period ended August 4, 2018, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, was primarily a result of an increase in demand for our products sold into the Industrial end market.
The sales increase in Japan in the nine-month period ended August 4, 2018, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, was primarily a result of the Acquisition, an increase in demand for our products sold into the Industrial end market and an additional week of operations in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 as compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2017.
The sales increase in China and the Rest of Asia in the three-month period ended August 4, 2018, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, was primarily a result of a broad-based increase in demand for our products sold into all end markets.
The sales increase in China and the Rest of Asia in the nine-month period ended August 4, 2018, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, was primarily a result of the Acquisition, a broad-based increase in demand for our products sold into all end markets and an additional week of operations in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 as compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2017.
The increase in cash provided by operating activities during the nine-month period ended August 4, 2018, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, was primarily a result of higher net income income adjusted for non-cash items, and changes in working capital, primarily resulting from changes to income taxes related to the Tax Legislation.
The decrease in cash used for investing activities during the nine-month period ended August 4, 2018, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, was primarily the result of a decrease in payments for acquisitions, partially offset by a decrease of proceeds from the sale of available for sale securities.


part2.txt
Our acquisition of Linear Technology Corporation (Linear) and the integration of its business, operations and employees with our own may be more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected, and the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the acquisition may not be fully realized, which could adversely impact our business operations, financial condition and results of operations.
Continuing uncertainty regarding the stability of global credit and financial markets may lead consumers and businesses to postpone spending, which may cause our customers to cancel, decrease or delay their existing and future orders for our products and make it difficult for us to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities.
If economic conditions deteriorate, we may record additional charges relating to restructuring costs or the impairment of assets and our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.
If our suppliers are unable or unwilling to manufacture and deliver components to us on the time schedule and of the quality or quantity that we require or provide us with required manufacturing processes, we may be forced to seek to engage additional or replacement suppliers, which could result in additional expenses and delays in product development or shipment of product to our customers.
If additional or replacement suppliers or manufacturing processes are not available, we may also experience delays in product development or shipment which could, in turn, result in the temporary or permanent loss of customers.
A prolonged disruption at, or inability to utilize, one or more of our manufacturing facilities, loss of raw materials or damage to our manufacturing equipment for any reason, including due to natural or man-made disasters, civil unrest or other events outside of our control, such as widespread outbreaks of illness or the failure to maintain our labor force at one or more of these facilities, may disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in us being unable to timely satisfy customer demand.
As a result, we could forgo revenue opportunities, potentially lose market share and damage our customer relationships, all of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
If we expand our operations and workforce too rapidly or procure excessive resources in anticipation of increased demand for our products, and that demand does not materialize at the pace at which we expect, or declines, or if we overbuild inventory in a period of decreased demand, our operating results may be adversely affected as a result of increased operating expenses, reduced margins, underutilization of capacity or asset impairment charges.
In addition, we may not be able to expand our workforce and operations in a sufficiently timely manner, procure adequate resources and raw materials, locate suitable third-party suppliers, or respond effectively to changes in demand for our existing products or to demand for new products requested by our customers, and our current or future business could be materially and adversely affected.
This instability could result in manufacturing delays and product shortages, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.
If we were to experience a prolonged disruption in the information technology systems that involve our internal communications or our interactions with customers or suppliers, it could result in the loss of sales and customers and significant incremental costs, which could adversely affect our business.
Earthquakes, tsunamis, flooding or other natural disasters may disrupt local semiconductor-related businesses and adversely affect manufacturing capacity, availability and cost of key raw materials, utilities and equipment, and availability of key services, including transport of our products worldwide.
Any prolonged inability to utilize one of our manufacturing facilities, or those of our subcontractors or third-party wafer fabrication foundries, as a result of fire, flood, natural disaster, unavailability of utilities or otherwise, could result in a temporary or permanent loss of customers for affected products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.
While we expect to continue to expand our business and operations in China, our success in the Chinese markets may be adversely affected by China’s continuously evolving policies, laws and regulations, including those relating to trade, taxation, import and export tariffs or restrictions, currency controls, antitrust, cybersecurity and data protection, the environment, indigenous innovation and the promotion of a domestic semiconductor industry, and intellectual property rights and enforcement and protection of those rights.
In addition, changes in the political environment, governmental policies, international trade policies and relations, or U.S.-China relations could result in revisions to laws or regulations or their interpretation and enforcement, exposure of our proprietary intellectual property, increased taxation, trade sanctions, the imposition of import duties or tariffs, restrictions on imports or exports, currency revaluations, or retaliatory actions by China in response to U.S. actions, which could have an adverse effect on our business plans and operating results.
If we are unable to address our U.S. cash requirements through operations, borrowings under our current revolving credit facility, future debt or equity offerings or other sources of cash obtained at an acceptable cost, it may be necessary for us to consider repatriation of earnings that are indefinitely reinvested, and we may be required to accrue and pay foreign withholding and U.S. income taxes under current tax laws as revised by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.
Termination of a significant distributor or a group of distributors, whether at our initiative or the distributor’s initiative or through consolidation in the distribution industry, could disrupt our current business, and if we are unable to find suitable replacements, our operating results could be adversely affected.
Our ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond our control such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and changes in technology, government regulations and the level of competition.


