The interim financial data as of March 31, 2019, and for the three months ended March 31, 2019 are unaudited; however, in the opinion of MKS, the interim data includes all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair statement of the results for the interim periods.
The condensed consolidated balance sheet presented as of December 31, 2018 has been derived from the consolidated audited financial statements as of that date.
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the MKS Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 26, 2019.
In October 2018, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2018-16, “Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815).” This standard permits the use of the Overnight Index Swap Rate (“OIS”) based on the Secured Overnight Financing Rate as a U.S. benchmark interest rate for hedge accounting purposes under Topic 815 in addition to the interest rates on direct treasury obligations of the U.S. government, the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) swap rate, the OIS rate based on the Federal Funds Effective Rate and the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association Municipal Swap Rate.
The Company adopted this ASU during the first quarter of 2019 and the adoption of this ASU did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
The Company adopted this ASU during the first quarter of 2019 and the adoption of this ASU did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
This standard requires the recognition of lease assets and liabilities for all leases, with certain exceptions, on the balance sheet.
The Company also elected to adopt the package of practical expedients upon transition, which permits companies to not reassess lease identification, classification, and initial direct costs under ASU 2016-02 for leases that commenced prior to the effective date.
Upon adoption, the Company recorded a cumulative effect of initially applying this new standard, resulting in the addition of $71,042 of right-of-use assets and $20,192 and $54,147 of short-term and long-term lease liabilities, respectively.
The right-of-use asset is net of the deferred rent liability, prepaid rent and a net favorable lease asset which were re-classified to the right-of-use asset upon adoption of the standard.
For additional information on the required disclosures related to the impact of adopting this standard, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
The Company has lease arrangements with lease and non-lease components, has elected to account for the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component, and has allocated all of the contract consideration to the lease component only.This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
Risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to those discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 in the section entitled “Risk Factors” as referenced in Part II, Item 1A “Risk Factors” of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
We are a global provider of instruments, subsystems and process control solutions that measure, monitor, deliver, analyze, power and control critical parameters of advanced manufacturing processes to improve process performance and productivity for our customers.
Our products are derived from our core competencies in pressure measurement and control, flow measurement and control, gas and vapor delivery, gas composition analysis, residual gas analysis, leak detection, control technology, ozone generation and delivery, power, reactive gas generation, vacuum technology, lasers, photonics, sub-micron positioning, vibration control, optics and laser-based manufacturing solutions.
Acquisition of Electro Scientific Industries, Inc. On February 1, 2019, we completed our acquisition of Electro Scientific Industries, Inc. (“ESI”) pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of October 29, 2018 (the “ESI Merger”).
At the effective time of the ESI Merger and pursuant to the terms and conditions of the merger agreement, each share of ESI’s common stock that was issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the ESI Merger was converted into the right to receive $30.00 in cash, without interest and subject to deduction of any required withholding tax.A-16-734039-B, were filed in the District Court, Clark County, Nevada on behalf of a putative class of stockholders of Newport Corporation (“Newport”) for claims related to the merger agreement (“Newport Merger Agreement”) between the Company, Newport, and a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (“Merger Sub”).