item1.txt
ASC Topic 606 defines a five-step process to recognize revenue and requires more judgment and estimates within the revenue recognition process than required under previous U.S. GAAP, including identifying performance obligations in the contract, estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation.
However, as a result of the contract cost guidance included in ASC Topic 606 and ASC Topic 340-40 "Contracts with Customers", upon adoption, we recorded a transition asset of $153, and a net of tax increase of $117 to Retained earnings, related to the incremental cost to obtain contracts.
Some of these conforming changes such as those related to the definition of minimum lease payments, may potentially result in certain lease arrangements, which are currently accounted for as operating leases, being classified and accounted for as sales-type leases with a corresponding up-front recognition of equipment sales revenue.
The company is currently evaluating the impact of the new guidance on its consolidated financial results and expects it will have a material impact on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position primarily related to the recognition of previously off-book operating leases.
The Company is currently planning to elect the package of practical expedients to not reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs and is evaluating the other practical expedients available under the guidance.
On the Lessor side, the Company continues to assess the potential impacts of the guidance on its lease agreements with customers, including potential changes in contracting terms, and we also expect to elect the package of practical expedients.
The update impacts financial assets and net investment in leases that are not accounted for at fair value through Net income.
This update provides specific guidance on eight cash flow classification issues where current guidance is either unclear or does not include specific requirements.
There is no expected impact to our 2018 cash flows from this reporting change, due to the termination of all accounts receivable sales arrangements in North America and all but one arrangement in Europe and the final repurchase of previously sold finance receivables during the fourth quarter of 2017.
The update requires that amounts generally described as restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents should be included with Cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts shown on the statement of cash flows.
The changes in our restricted cash balances were primarily related to our accounts receivable sales programs, which were terminated during the fourth quarter of 2017.
These incremental adjustments primarily relate to Fuji Xerox’s Asia Pacific subsidiaries and involve improper revenue recognition, including revenue associated with leasing transactions, additional provisions for bad debt allowances and other asset impairments.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we recorded net restructuring and asset impairment charges of $91, which included $104 of severance costs related to headcount of approximately 1,850 employees worldwide and $13 of lease cancellation costs.
Net currency gains and losses include the mark-to-market adjustments of the derivatives not designated as hedging instruments and the related cost of those derivatives as well as the re-measurement of foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities and are included in Other expenses, net.
The fair value amounts for Cash and cash equivalents and Accounts receivable, net, approximate carrying amounts due to the short maturities of these instruments.
The amount for the plan amendment is expected to be amortized to future net periodic benefit costs as a prior service credit and is expected to reduce 2019 costs by approximately $70 (approximately $15 for the fourth quarter of 2018).
Since final performance measures have not been approved as of September 30, 2018, the criteria needed to establish a grant date has not been met and therefore the fair value of the April 2018 grant will continue to be revalued based on the period end stock price for each subsequent reporting period until the grant date criteria has been met.
On April 27, 2018, the Court issued decisions and orders granting plaintiffs’ preliminary injunction motions, which (i) enjoin Xerox from “taking any further action to consummate the change of control transaction between Xerox and Fuji that was announced on January 31, 2018 pending a final determination of the claims asserted in the underlying action;” (ii) enjoin Xerox from enforcing its advance notice bylaw provision requiring shareholders to nominate directors for election at the 2018 annual shareholder meeting by December 11, 2017; and (iii) require Xerox to waive such advance notice bylaw provision to permit the noticing of a slate of director nominees for election at the 2018 annual shareholder meeting, and denying defendants’ motions to dismiss.
On June 18, 2018, Fujifilm filed a complaint against Xerox in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, relating to the Fuji Transaction agreements.
Icahn and Deason and using as a pretext issues with Fujifilm’s untimely submitted financials, and by settling the Deason litigation without notice to or consent by Fujifilm; (2) willfully breached the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing by failing to support and use best efforts to conclude the Fuji Transaction, thus depriving Fujifilm of the benefit of its bargain; and (3) effected a change in Xerox’s recommendation regarding the Fuji Transaction, entitling Fujifilm to terminate the Fuji Transaction agreements and to receive from Xerox a $183 termination fee.
We have issued or provided approximately $320 of guarantees as of September 30, 2018 in the form of letters of credit or surety bonds issued to i) support certain insurance programs; ii) support our obligations related to the Brazil tax and labor contingencies; and iii) support certain contracts, primarily with public sector customers, which require us to provide a surety bond as a guarantee of our performance of contractual obligations.
Under the terms of the Transaction Agreements, Fuji Xerox would have become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Xerox, Xerox shareholders would have received a $2.5 billion special cash dividend and Xerox would have become owned 49.9% by Xerox's shareholders as of the closing date for the transaction and 50.1% by Fujifilm.
The terms of the Subscription Agreement provided the Company with certain terminations rights, including (a) if the audited financial statements of FX deviated in any material respect from the unaudited financial statements of FX and its subsidiaries provided to the Company prior to the date of the Subscription Agreement and (b) if Fujifilm or FX failed to perform any covenant or agreement set forth in the Subscription Agreement that would cause certain conditions to the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Subscription Agreement not to be satisfied, which breach or failure to perform could not be cured or, if capable of cure, had not been cured by the earlier of 30 days following written notice thereof from the Company to Fujifilm.
As a result of the failure by Fujifilm to deliver the audited financial statements of FX by April 15, 2018 and the material deviations reflected in the audited financial statements of FX, when delivered, the Company determined that it was in the best interest of the Company and its shareholders to terminate the Subscription Agreement in accordance with the termination rights set forth therein, taking into account other circumstances limiting the ability of the Company, Fujifilm and FX to consummate a transaction.
On January 31, 2018, Xerox entered into a Commitment Letter with Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., which provided a commitment for a $2.5 billion unsecured bridge loan facility that would have been available for Xerox to pay the special one-time cash dividend of $2.5 billion to existing shareholders of Xerox in connection with the Transaction Agreements, as described above.


item2.txt
The decrease in Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to the respective prior year periods was primarily due to lower revenues and higher Income tax expense, which included an additional charge of $95 million in third quarter 2018 related to the impact of the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Tax Act").
The decrease in Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the three months ended September 30, 2018 was also partially offset by lower Transaction and related costs, net, primarily due to recoveries during third quarter 2018.
The decrease in Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was negatively impacted by Transaction and related costs, net and lower Equity in net income from unconsolidated affiliates, which included our share of a significant restructuring charge recorded by Fuji Xerox in the first quarter of 2018.
The decrease in adjusted1 Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to the respective prior year periods was primarily related to lower revenues and higher income tax expense, partially offset by the continued benefits of cost savings and productivity improvements.
The decrease in adjusted1 Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the three months ended September 30, 2018 was partially offset by higher Equity in net income from unconsolidated affiliates, while adjusted1 Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was negatively impacted by lower Equity in net income from unconsolidated affiliates, which included an out-of-period adjustment recorded during the first quarter of 2018.
Operating cash flow provided by continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was $725 million, as compared to a use of cash of $30 million for the prior year period.
The increase was primarily due to the prior year voluntary contributions of $500 million to our U.S. defined benefit pension plans and the reclassification of $170 million of collections of deferred proceeds and beneficial interests from the sale of receivables to investing cash flows as a result of an accounting change in the prior year (refer to Note 3 - Recent Accounting Pronouncements in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information).
Equipment sales revenue decreased 3.8% for the three months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to third quarter 2017, with a 1.1-percentage point unfavorable impact from currency, while equipment sales revenue decreased 1.8% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to the prior year period, with a 1.3-percentage point favorable impact from currency.
SAG as a percentage of revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 of 25.1% was flat as compared to the prior year period, reflecting primarily the benefit from productivity and restructuring associated with our business transformation actions.
SAG of $1,835 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was $55 million lower than the prior year period, including an approximate $24 million unfavorable impact from currency.
Restructuring and related costs were $91 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and included $104 million of severance costs related to headcount of approximately 1,850 employees worldwide and $13 million of lease cancellation costs partially offset by $26 million of net reversals for changes in estimated reserves from prior period initiatives.
Restructuring and related costs were $192 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 and included net restructuring and asset impairment charges of $174 million as well as $18 million of additional costs primarily related to professional support services associated with the implementation of the strategic transformation program.
Net restructuring and asset impairment charges for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 of $174 million included $196 million of severance costs related to headcount of approximately 2,100 employees worldwide and $3 million of lease cancellation costs partially offset by $25 million of net reversals for changes in estimated reserves from prior period initiatives, which included a $5 million favorable adjustment on the early termination of the lease for the corporate airplane.
Non-service retirement-related costs decreased $2 million and $46 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the prior year periods.
Both period decreases were primarily driven by the favorable impact of higher pension contributions and asset returns in the prior year, with the decrease in third quarter 2018 partially offset by higher losses from pension settlements in the U.S. Gains on sales of businesses and assets decreased $10 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to third quarter 2017, reflecting primarily the prior year sale of a research facility in Grenoble, France (which primarily supported the discontinued BPO business).
Gains on the sales of business and assets increased $21 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, as compared to the prior year period, reflecting a higher level of sales of non-core business assets in 2018.
For the three months ended September 30, 2018, equity income increased $13 million, while equity income decreased $96 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, as compared to the prior year periods.
Equity income for the three months ended September 30, 2018 reflected savings from restructuring as well as lower bad debt provisions, while the equity loss for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 included an approximate $28 million charge related to the out-of-period adjustments described in Note 9 - Investments in Affiliates, at Equity, in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and in the "Fuji Xerox Adjustments" section above.
Equity in net income (loss) of unconsolidated affiliates for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 included $1 million and $81 million, respectively, of higher year-over-year charges related to our share of Fuji Xerox after-tax restructuring and other charges.
Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was $224 million, or $0.83 per diluted share, which included an estimated non-cash charge of $95 million or $0.37 per diluted share associated with the Tax Act. See the "Income Taxes" section for further discussion.
On an adjusted1 basis, Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox was $613 million, or $2.33 per diluted share and includes adjustments for Restructuring and related costs, Amortization of intangible assets, Transaction and related costs, net as well as non-service retirement-related costs and other discrete, unusual or infrequent items as described in our Non-GAAP Financial Measures section.
On an adjusted1 basis, Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox was $634 million, or $2.41 per diluted share and includes adjustments for Restructuring and related costs, Amortization of intangible assets as well as non-service retirement-related costs and other discrete, unusual or infrequent items as described in our Non-GAAP Financial Measures section.


item4.txt
31(a) Certification of CEO pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or Rule 15d-14(a).
31(a) Certification of CEO pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or Rule 15d-14(a).


part2.txt
In July 2018, Registrant’s Board of Directors authorized a $1.0 billion share repurchase program.
This program replaces the $245 million of authority remaining under Registrant’s previously authorized share repurchase program.
101.CAL XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


