item1.txt
The update provides criteria for determining which implementation costs to capitalize as an asset related to the service contract and which costs to expense.
This update, as well as additional amendments and targeted improvements issued in 2018 and early 2019, supersedes existing lease accounting guidance found under ASC 840, Leases (“ASC 840”) and requires the recognition of right-to-use assets and lease obligations by lessees for those leases originally classified as operating leases under prior lease guidance.
Some of these conforming changes, such as those related to the definition of lease term and minimum lease payments, resulted in certain lease arrangements, that would have been previously accounted for as operating leases, to be classified and accounted for as sales-type leases with a corresponding up-front recognition of equipment sales revenue.
We also elected the package of practical expedients not to reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs and the lessee practical expedient to combine lease and non-lease components for certain asset classes (real estate lease arrangements for offices and warehouses).
Additionally, we made a policy election to not recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases for all asset classes.
Lessee accounting - the adoption of this update resulted in an increase to assets and related liabilities of approximately $385 (approximately $440 undiscounted) primarily related to leases of facilities.
Refer to Note 3 - Adoption of New Leasing Standard - Xerox as a Lessee and Note 4 - Adoption of New Leasing Standard - Xerox as a Lessor for additional transitional disclosures related to the adoption of this standard.
Operating lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at the commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
We have elected the short-term lease exception, therefore operating lease ROU assets and liabilities do not include leases with a lease term of twelve months or less.
We have elected to include the carrying amount of operating lease liabilities in any tested asset group and include the associated operating lease payments in the undiscounted future pre-tax cash flows.
Xerox has one finance lease for equipment and related infrastructure within an outsourced warehouse supply arrangement in the U.S. The lease expires in December 2023 and has a remaining lease obligation of $8 as of March 31, 2019 using a discount rate of 4.07%.
As of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 amounts deferred associated with contract fulfillment costs and inducements were $12 and $12, respectively, The related amortization for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 was $1 and $1, respectively .
Equipment on operating leases and similar arrangements consists of our equipment rented to customers and depreciated to estimated salvage value at the end of the lease term.
Total contingent rentals on operating leases, consisting principally of usage charges in excess of minimum contracted amounts, were $27 and $30, for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The net asset fair value of these contracts were $5 and $8 as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.
Another complaint was filed by Mr. Deason against Xerox and its directors in the same Court on March 2, 2018 ("Deason II") alleging that defendants breached their fiduciary duties by refusing Mr. Deason’s request for a waiver of the deadline for nomination of a new slate of Xerox directors.
On April 27, 2018, the Court issued decisions and orders granting plaintiffs’ preliminary injunction motions, which (i) enjoined Xerox from “taking any further action to consummate the change of control transaction between Xerox and Fuji that was announced on January 31, 2018 pending a final determination of the claims asserted in the underlying action;” (ii) enjoined Xerox from enforcing its advance notice bylaw provision requiring shareholders to nominate directors for election at the 2018 annual shareholder meeting by December 11, 2017; and (iii) required Xerox to waive such advance notice bylaw provision to permit the noticing of a slate of director nominees for election at the 2018 annual shareholder meeting, and denying defendants’ motions to dismiss.
On June 19, 2018, the putative class plaintiffs filed a motion for preliminary approval of a stipulation of settlement that would resolve the claims asserted by the plaintiffs in the putative class case against all defendants, other than Fujifilm.
On June 22, 2018, the Court entered an order denying a joint motion by the putative class plaintiffs and the settling defendants to dissolve the injunction in the putative class case as against the settling defendants, and entered an order denying Fujifilm’s motion to dissolve the injunctions in the putative class case and Deason I in their entirety.
On August 2, 2018, the Appellate Division entered orders recognizing the Xerox defendants’ withdrawal of their appeal in the Deason cases and denying all appellants’ motions to stay pending determination of appeals in the Deason and putative class cases.
On October 16, 2018, the Appellate Division entered a decision and order reversing the Court’s rulings, ordering that the claims brought against Fujifilm in the cases by Mr. Deason and the purported class be dismissed, and further ordering that the preliminary injunction of the proposed Fuji Transaction be dissolved (the “Appellate Decision and Order”).
On November 15, 2018, the putative class plaintiffs filed with the Appellate Division a motion seeking the opportunity to reargue Fujifilm’s appeal or, in the alternative, for leave to appeal the Appellate Decision and Order to the New York State Court of Appeals.
On December 6, 2018, pursuant to the Appellate Decision and Order, the Court entered a judgment dismissing the complaints against Fujifilm in Deason I and the putative class case.
The Court further issued orders denying the putative class plaintiffs’ motion for class certification, without prejudice to renewing the motion after the outcome of any appeals of the Appellate Decision and Order.
On January 8, 2019, the Court entered an order staying all further proceedings in Deason I and the putative class case until thirty days after exhaustion of appeals, including any appeals to the New York State Court of Appeals, of the Appellate Decision and Order.
On January 9, 2019, the Court entered an order denying the putative class plaintiffs’ motion to transmit notice to the proposed class, without prejudice to renewal of their motion at a later time.
On October 31, 2018 and January 3, 2019, respectively, Xerox and the Xerox director defendants in the putative class case filed with the Appellate Division a request and motion seeking an extension, until after any decision regarding approval of settlement of the putative class action, of the deadline by which to perfect their appeal of the Court’s April 27, 2018 decision and order.
On February 21, 2019, the Appellate Division issued an order denying the putative class plaintiffs’ motion seeking to reargue Fujifilm’s appeal or, in the alternative, for leave to appeal the Appellate Decision and Order to the New York State Court of Appeals.
On April 11, 2019, Carmen Ribbe filed a putative derivative and class action stockholder complaint in the Supreme Court of the State of New York for New York County, naming as defendants Xerox, current Board members Gregory Q.
Plaintiff previously filed a putative shareholder derivative lawsuit on May 24, 2018 against certain of these defendants, as well as others, in the same court; that lawsuit was dismissed without prejudice on December 6, 2018.
The new complaint includes putative derivative claims on behalf of Xerox for breach of fiduciary duty against the members of the Xerox Board who approved Xerox’s entry into agreements to settle the Deason and In re Xerox Corporation Consolidated Shareholder Litigation (“XCCSL”) actions (described above).
The new complaint further includes direct claims for breach of fiduciary duty on behalf of a putative class of current Xerox stockholders other than Mr. Deason, Mr. Icahn, and their affiliated entities (the “Ribbe Class”) against the defendants for causing Xerox to enter into the Deason and XCCSL settlements, which plaintiff alleges perpetuated control of Xerox by Mr. Icahn and Mr. Deason and denied the voting franchise of Xerox shareholders.
On October 21, 2016, the Oklahoma Firefighters Pension and Retirement System (“plaintiff”) filed a purported securities class action complaint against Xerox Corporation, Ursula Burns, Luca Maestri, Kathryn Mikells, Lynn Blodgett and Robert Zapfel (collectively, “defendants”) in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York on behalf of the plaintiff and certain purchasers or acquirers of Xerox common stock.


item2.txt
The increase in Net income attributable to Xerox for the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to the prior year period, was primarily due to the continued benefits of cost savings and productivity improvements from our Project Own It transformation actions, which offset the impact of lower revenues, as well as lower Transaction and related costs, net, lower Income tax expense and higher Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates.
The increase in adjusted1 net income attributable to Xerox for the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to the prior year period was primarily related to increased operating profits reflecting the continued benefits of cost savings and productivity improvements, which offset the decline in revenues, as well as higher Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates.
•14% decrease in high-end color installs, reflecting lower installs of our iGen and lower-end production systems including Versant systems, partially offset by strong demand for the higher-configuration models of our Iridesse production press and higher installs of our inkjet production systems.
SAG of $548 million was $80 million lower than first quarter 2018, reflecting productivity and restructuring savings associated with our Project Own It transformation actions as well as favorable impacts of approximately $13 million from translation currency and $9 million from a prior year accelerated depreciation charge.
There were no Transaction and related costs, net recognized during the first quarter 2019 as compared to $38 million during first quarter 2018.
Amortization of intangible assets for the three months ended March 31, 2019 of $15 million increased by $3 million as compared to first quarter 2018.
Non-financing interest expense for the three months ended March 31, 2019 of $27 million was $2 million lower than first quarter 2018.
Non-service retirement-related costs for the three months ended March 31, 2019 were $12 million lower than first quarter 2018, primarily driven by the favorable impact of a 2018 amendment to our U.S. Retiree Health Plan partially offset by higher losses from pension settlements in the U.S. Refer to Note 15 - Employee Benefit Plans in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding non-service retirement-related costs.
Gains on sales of businesses and assets for the three months ended March 31, 2019 were $15 million lower than first quarter 2018, reflecting the prior year sale of non-core business assets.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019, equity income increased $113 million as compared to the first quarter 2018, primarily reflecting $67 million of lower year-over-year charges related to our share of Fuji Xerox after-tax restructuring and other changes as well as an approximate $28 million charge related to an out-of-period charge at Fuji Xerox in the prior year.
On an adjusted1 basis, Net income attributable to Xerox was $219 million, or $0.91 per diluted share and includes adjustments for Restructuring and related costs, Amortization of intangible assets and non-service retirement-related costs, as well as other discrete, unusual or infrequent items as described in our Non-GAAP Financial Measures section.
On an adjusted1 basis, Net income attributable to Xerox was $178 million, or $0.68 per diluted share and includes adjustments for Restructuring and related costs, Amortization of intangible assets, Transaction and related costs, net as well as non-service retirement-related costs.
The decrease in total cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash primarily reflect the repayment of $406 million of maturing Senior Notes in first quarter 2019.
•$29 million increase due to net insurance proceeds of $14 million in first quarter 2019 compared to payments of $15 million in prior year for Transaction and related costs, net.
2019 reflects payments of $406 million on Senior Notes compared to prior year payments of $25 million related to the termination of a capital lease obligation and $13 million of bridge facility costs.


item4.txt
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(d)(5) to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e)(42) to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated April 17, 2019.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(d)(5) to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e)(42) to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018.


part2.txt
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(d)(5) to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e)(42) to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated April 17, 2019.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(d)(5) to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated April 17, 2019.


