item1.txt
In 2017 Fujifilm publicly announced it had formed an independent investigation committee ("IIC") to conduct a review of the appropriateness of the accounting practices at Fuji Xerox’s New Zealand subsidiary related to the recovery of receivables associated with certain bundled leasing transactions that occurred in, or prior to, Fuji Xerox’s fiscal year ending March 31, 2016.
Refer to Note 10 - Investment in Affiliates, at Equity for a discussion regarding the correction of incremental misstatements and adjustments identified in 2018 and corrected by Fuji Xerox as part of their reported results for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 (our first quarter).
ASC Topic 606 defines a five step process to recognize revenue and requires more judgment and estimates within the revenue recognition process than required under previous U.S. GAAP, including identifying performance obligations in the contract, estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation.
However, as a result of the contract cost guidance included in ASC Topic 606 and ASC Topic 340-40 "Contracts with Customers", upon adoption, we recorded a transition asset of $153, and a net of tax increase of $117 to retained earnings, related to the incremental cost to obtain contracts.
The update impacts financial assets and net investment in leases that are not accounted for at fair value through net income.
This update provides specific guidance on eight cash flow classification issues where current guidance is either unclear or does not include specific requirements.
This update includes specific guidance which requires cash collected on beneficial interests received in a sale of receivables be classified as inflows from investing activities.
We reported $54 of collections on beneficial interests as operating cash inflows on the Statement of Cash Flows for the three months ended March 31, 2017.
There is no expected impact to our 2018 cash flows from this reporting change due to the termination of all accounts receivable sales arrangements in North America and most arrangements in Europe and the final repurchase of previously sold finance receivables during the fourth quarter of 2017.
The other seven issues noted in this update are not expected to have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
The update requires that amounts generally described as restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents should be included with cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts shown on the statement of cash flows.
We held $76 and $75 of restricted cash, currently reported in other current or long-term assets at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
The changes in our restricted cash balances were primarily related to our accounts receivable sales programs, which were terminated during the fourth quarter of 2017.
Accordingly, this update is not expected to have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
Under this arrangement, we sell our entire interest in the related accounts receivable for cash and no portion of the payment is held back or deferred by the purchaser.
In 2018, in connection with the completion of the audits of Fuji Xerox’s fiscal year-end financial statements as of and for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2017, as well the review of Fuji Xerox’s unaudited interim financial statements as of and for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 additional adjustments and misstatements were identified.
These additional adjustments and misstatements were to the previously reported net income of Fuji Xerox for the period from 2010 through 2017 and are incremental to the items identified by the IIC discussed in Note 2 - Correction of Fuji Xerox Misstatement in Prior Period Financial Statements.
These incremental adjustments primarily relate to Fuji Xerox’s Asia Pacific subsidiaries and involve improper revenue recognition, including revenue associated with leasing transactions, additional provisions for bad debt allowances and other asset impairments.
In certain instances, some of the adjustments related to inappropriate accounting and reporting practices in the Fuji Xerox Asia Pacific subsidiaries where previous misstatements were identified.
As of March 31, 2018, a net after-tax gain of $5 was recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss associated with our cash flow hedging activity.
The fair value amounts for Cash and cash equivalents and Accounts receivable, net, approximate carrying amounts due to the short maturities of these instruments.
On April 27, 2018, the Court issued decisions and orders granting plaintiffs’ preliminary injunction motions, which (i) enjoin Xerox from “taking any further action to consummate the change of control transaction between Xerox and Fuji that was announced on January 31, 2018 pending a final determination of the claims asserted in the underlying action;” (ii) enjoin Xerox from enforcing its advance notice bylaw provision requiring shareholders to nominate directors for election at the 2018 annual shareholder meeting by December 11, 2017; and (iii) require Xerox to waive such advance notice bylaw provision to permit the noticing of a slate of director nominees for election at the 2018 annual shareholder meeting, and denying defendants’ motions to dismiss.
We have issued or provided approximately $366 of guarantees as of March 31, 2018 in the form of letters of credit or surety bonds issued to i) support certain insurance programs; ii) support our obligations related to the Brazil tax and labor contingencies; and iii) support certain contracts, primarily with public sector customers, which require us to provide a surety bond as a guarantee of our performance of contractual obligations.
Immediately following the Redemption, Fujifilm will contribute to Xerox the cash it received in the Redemption and all shares of Fuji Xerox still held by Fujifilm after giving effect to the Redemption and, in exchange therefore, Xerox will issue to Fujifilm a number of shares of Xerox common stock such that Fujifilm will own 50.1% of the Xerox common stock, on a fully diluted basis, at the closing of the transactions (the “Closing”), a portion of which will be held in escrow in accordance with the terms of the Transaction Agreements.
Xerox may also secure financing to fund approximately $350 required to settle certain of Xerox's obligations in respect of unfunded supplemental pension plans and deferred compensation plans which will accelerate in connection with the combination (such accelerated payments, the "change-in-control payments").


item2.txt
Refer to Note 19 - Contingencies and Litigation and Note 20 - Fuji Xerox Transaction and Recent Developments in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to this transaction and related matters.
These incremental adjustments primarily relate to Fuji Xerox’s Asia Pacific subsidiaries and involve improper revenue recognition, including revenue associated with leasing transactions, additional provisions for bad debt allowances and other asset impairments.
Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was $23 million and included after-tax costs of $155 million related to the amortization of intangible assets, restructuring and related costs, transaction and related costs, non-service retirement-related costs and other discrete adjustments, resulting in adjusted1 net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox of $178 million.
Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the three months ended March 31, 2017 was $46 million and included after-tax costs of $130 million related to the amortization of intangible assets, restructuring and related costs, non-service retirement-related costs and other discrete adjustments, resulting in adjusted1 net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox of $176 million.
The decrease in net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the prior year period was primarily due to lower equity income from our unconsolidated affiliates, which included our share of a significant restructuring charge recorded by Fuji Xerox, transaction and related costs and higher income taxes.
The increase in adjusted1 net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the prior year period was primarily related to increased operating profits reflecting the continued benefits of cost savings and productivity improvements, which offset the decline in revenues, as well as lower interest expense and a gain on the sale of non-core assets.
The increase is primarily due to improved operating profits, working capital2 and the prior year reclassification of $54 million of collections of deferred proceeds and beneficial interests from the sale of receivables to investing cash flows as a result of an accounting change (Refer to Note 4 - Recent Accounting Pronouncements in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information).
Cash used in financing activities of $117 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 primarily reflects payments of $25 million related to the termination of a capital lease obligation and $13 million of bridge facility costs, as well as dividend payments of $67 million.
The increase was primarily driven by lower restructuring and related costs that reflected the phasing of our strategic transformation initiatives, as well as lower Other expense, net partially offset by Transaction related costs.
This performance reflected cost productivity savings, along with favorable transaction currency of 0.7-percentage points partially offset by the impact of lower revenues.
First quarter 2018 equipment gross margin of 32.3% increased 1.6-percentage points as compared to first quarter 2017, reflecting benefits from transaction currency and cost productivity savings.
SAG of $628 million was $6 million lower than first quarter 2017, including an approximate $19 million unfavorable impact from currency as well as $9 million of accelerated depreciation related to the early termination of a capital lease associated with a surplus facility.
During first quarter 2018, we recorded costs of $36 million related to Xerox's planned combination transaction with Fuji Xerox, which is currently halted as a result of a court injunction.
First quarter 2018 non-service retirement-related costs were $35 million lower than first quarter 2017, primarily driven by lower losses from pension settlements and the favorable impact of higher pension contributions and asset returns in the prior year.
First quarter 2018 equity loss of $68 million included an approximate $28 million charge related to the out-of-period adjustments described in Note 10 - Investments in Affiliates, at Equity in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and in the "Fuji Xerox Adjustments" section above, and was $108 million worse compared to first quarter 2017, including $79 million of higher year-over-year charges related to our share of Fuji Xerox after-tax restructuring and other charges.
First quarter 2018 adjustments to net income include restructuring and related costs, amortization of intangible assets, transaction and related costs and non-service retirement-related costs as well as other discrete, unusual or infrequent items as described in our Non-GAAP Financial Measures section.
First quarter 2017 adjustments to net income include restructuring and related costs, amortization of intangible assets, and non-service retirement-related costs as well as other discrete, unusual or infrequent items as described in our Non-GAAP Financial Measures section.
•$123 million increase from accounts receivable primarily due to the timing of collections and lower revenue, as well as the prior year reclassification of $48 million of collections of deferred proceeds from the sales of accounts receivables to investing.
•$54 million decrease primarily as a result of the termination of certain accounts receivables sales arrangements in fourth quarter 2017.
•2018 - Bridge facility costs relate to the previously disclosed $2.5 billion bridge loan facility, which was entered into in the first quarter 2018 to provide funding for the payment of the expected $2.5 billion dividend associated with the Fuji Xerox combination transaction in the event Xerox does not secure permanent financing.


item4.txt
31(a) Certification of CEO pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or Rule 15d-14(a).
31(b) Certification of CFO pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or Rule 15d-14(a).
31(b) Certification of CFO pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or Rule 15d-14(a).


part2.txt
31(b) Certification of CFO pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or Rule 15d-14(a).
101.LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase.
31(b) Certification of CFO pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or Rule 15d-14(a).
101.LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase.


