item1.txt
This update, as well as additional amendments and targeted improvements issued in 2018 and early 2019, supersedes existing lease accounting guidance found under ASC 840, Leases (“ASC 840”) and requires the recognition of right-to-use assets and lease obligations by lessees for those leases originally classified as operating leases under prior lease guidance.
Some of these conforming changes, such as those related to the definition of lease term and minimum lease payments, resulted in certain lease arrangements, that would have been previously accounted for as operating leases, to be classified and accounted for as sales-type leases with a corresponding up-front recognition of equipment sales revenue.
We also elected the package of practical expedients not to reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs and the lessee practical expedient to combine lease and non-lease components for certain asset classes (real estate lease arrangements for offices and warehouses).
Refer to Note 3 - Adoption of New Leasing Standard - Xerox as a Lessee and Note 4 - Adoption of New Leasing Standard - Xerox as a Lessor for additional transitional disclosures related to the adoption of this standard.
Operating lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at the commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
We have elected to include the carrying amount of operating lease liabilities in any tested asset group and include the associated operating lease payments in the undiscounted future pre-tax cash flows.
Xerox has one finance lease for equipment and related infrastructure within an outsourced warehouse supply arrangement in the U.S. The lease expires in December 2023 and has a remaining lease obligation of $7 as of June 30, 2019 based on a discount rate of 4.07%.
The Right-of-use asset balance associated with this finance lease of $8 is included in Land, buildings and equipment, net in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Equipment on operating leases and similar arrangements consists of our equipment rented to customers and depreciated to estimated salvage value at the end of the lease term.
In February 2018, five complaints (the "Fuji Transaction Shareholder Lawsuits"), including four putative class actions (which have been consolidated), were filed by Xerox shareholders in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, County of New York (the "Court") in connection with the proposed transaction to combine Xerox and Fuji Xerox (the “Fuji Transaction”).
Another complaint was filed by Mr. Deason against Xerox and its directors in the same Court on March 2, 2018 ("Deason II") alleging that defendants breached their fiduciary duties by refusing Mr. Deason’s request for a waiver of the deadline for nomination of a new slate of Xerox directors.
On April 27, 2018, the Court issued decisions and orders granting plaintiffs’ preliminary injunction motions, which (i) enjoined Xerox from “taking any further action to consummate the change of control transaction between Xerox and Fuji that was announced on January 31, 2018 pending a final determination of the claims asserted in the underlying action;” (ii) enjoined Xerox from enforcing its advance notice bylaw provision requiring shareholders to nominate directors for election at the 2018 annual shareholder meeting by December 11, 2017; and (iii) required Xerox to waive such advance notice bylaw provision to permit the noticing of a slate of director nominees for election at the 2018 annual shareholder meeting, and denying defendants’ motions to dismiss.
On May 13, 2018, a second Director Appointment, Nomination and Settlement Agreement (the "Final Settlement Agreement") with respect to Deason I, Deason II and the pending proxy contest in connection with Xerox's 2018 Annual Meeting of Shareholders that was initiated by the Icahn Group was signed on behalf of Mr. Deason, the Icahn Group and all defendants except Fujifilm, and a memorandum of understanding regarding settlement of the putative class case was signed by all defendants except Fujifilm.
On June 19, 2018, the putative class plaintiffs filed a motion for preliminary approval of a stipulation of settlement that would resolve the claims asserted by the plaintiffs in the putative class case against all defendants, other than Fujifilm.
On June 22, 2018, the Court entered an order denying a joint motion by the putative class plaintiffs and the settling defendants to dissolve the injunction in the putative class case as against the settling defendants, and entered an order denying Fujifilm’s motion to dissolve the injunctions in the putative class case and Deason I in their entirety.
On August 2, 2018, the Appellate Division entered orders recognizing the Xerox defendants’ withdrawal of their appeal in the Deason cases and denying all appellants’ motions to stay pending determination of appeals in the Deason and putative class cases.
On October 16, 2018, the Appellate Division entered a decision and order reversing the Court’s rulings, ordering that the claims brought against Fujifilm in the cases by Mr. Deason and the purported class be dismissed, and further ordering that the preliminary injunction of the proposed Fuji Transaction be dissolved (the “Appellate Decision and Order”).
On November 15, 2018, the putative class plaintiffs filed with the Appellate Division a motion seeking the opportunity to reargue Fujifilm’s appeal or, in the alternative, for leave to appeal the Appellate Decision and Order to the New York State Court of Appeals.
On December 6, 2018, pursuant to the Appellate Decision and Order, the Court entered a judgment dismissing the complaints against Fujifilm in Deason I and the putative class case.
On January 8, 2019, the Court entered an order staying all further proceedings in Deason I and the putative class case until thirty days after exhaustion of appeals, including any appeals to the New York State Court of Appeals, of the Appellate Decision and Order.
On January 9, 2019, the Court entered an order denying the putative class plaintiffs’ motion to transmit notice to the proposed class, without prejudice to renewal of their motion at a later time.
On October 31, 2018 and January 3, 2019, respectively, Xerox and the Xerox director defendants in the putative class case filed with the Appellate Division a request and motion seeking an extension, until after any decision regarding approval of settlement of the putative class action, of the deadline by which to perfect their appeal of the Court’s April 27, 2018 decision and order.
On February 21, 2019, the Appellate Division issued an order denying the putative class plaintiffs’ motion seeking to reargue Fujifilm’s appeal or, in the alternative, for leave to appeal the Appellate Decision and Order to the New York State Court of Appeals.
On June 6, 2019, the Court entered an order pursuant to which plaintiffs submitted their motion to approve attorneys’ fees and expenses on July 19, 2019; requiring filing of any objections to or opt-outs from the proposed putative class settlement by August 9, 2019; and setting September 6, 2019 for its hearing on putative class plaintiffs’ motion for class certification and settlement approval.
On April 11, 2019, Carmen Ribbe filed a putative derivative and class action stockholder complaint in the Supreme Court of the State of New York for New York County, naming as defendants Xerox, current Board members Gregory Q.
Plaintiff previously filed a putative shareholder derivative lawsuit on May 24, 2018 against certain of these defendants, as well as others, in the same court; that lawsuit was dismissed without prejudice on December 6, 2018.
On June 4, 2019, the Court entered an order setting a briefing schedule for defendants’ motions to dismiss the complaint.
On October 21, 2016, the Oklahoma Firefighters Pension and Retirement System (“plaintiff”) filed a purported securities class action complaint against Xerox Corporation, Ursula Burns, Luca Maestri, Kathryn Mikells, Lynn Blodgett and Robert Zapfel (collectively, “defendants”) in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York on behalf of the plaintiff and certain purchasers or acquirers of Xerox common stock.


item2.txt
Second quarter 2019 Net income attributable to Xerox increased $69 million as compared to second quarter 2018 primarily due to lower Transaction and related costs, net and higher Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates.
Net income attributable to Xerox for the six months ended June 30, 2019 increased $179 million as compared to the prior year period primarily due to higher Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates as well as lower Transaction and related costs, net and Income tax expense.
Adjusted1 net income attributable to Xerox for the six months ended June 30, 2019 increased $61 million as compared to the prior year period.
The increase was primarily related to higher Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates as well as increased operating profits reflecting the continued benefits of cost savings and productivity improvements from Project Own It, which more than offset the decline in revenues.
SAG of $519 million decreased $105 million as compared to second quarter 2018, reflecting productivity and restructuring savings associated with our Project Own It transformation actions as well as favorable impacts of approximately $9 million from translation currency and $20 million from higher costs in the prior year related to the termination of an IT project and the accelerated depreciation associated with the exit of a surplus real estate facility.
SAG as a percentage of revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2019 of 23.7% decreased by 1.6-percentage points as compared to the prior year period, primarily reflecting the benefit from productivity and restructuring associated with our Project Own It transformation actions.
SAG for the six months ended June 30, 2019 of $1,067 million decreased $185 million as compared to the prior year period, reflecting productivity and restructuring savings associated with our Project Own It transformation actions as well as favorable impacts of approximately $22 million from translation currency and $29 million from higher costs in the prior year related to the termination of an IT project and the accelerated depreciation associated with the exit of a surplus real estate facility.
Restructuring and related costs were $62 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and included $64 million of severance costs related to headcount reductions of approximately 950 employees worldwide and $12 million of lease cancellation costs partially offset by $14 million of net reversals for changes in estimated reserves from prior period initiatives.
Transaction and related costs, net for the six months ended June 30, 2019 were $4 million as compared to $96 million in the prior year period.
Non-service retirement-related costs for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 decreased $15 million and $27 million, respectively, as compared to the prior year periods, primarily driven by the favorable impact of a 2018 amendment to our U.S. Retiree Health Plan partially offset by higher losses from pension settlements in the U.S. Refer to Note 16 - Employee Benefit Plans in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding non-service retirement-related costs.
Gains on sales of businesses and assets for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 decreased by $16 million and $31 million, respectively, as compared to the prior year periods, reflecting the prior year sale of non-core business assets.
For the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, equity income increased $15 million and $128 million as compared to the prior year periods, primarily reflecting savings from restructuring.
The increase in Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates for the six months ended June 30, 2019 also reflects $64 million of lower year-over-year charges of related to our share of Fuji Xerox after-tax restructuring and other charges, as well as an approximate $28 million charge related to an out-of-period charge at Fuji Xerox in the prior year.


item4.txt
3.3 Certificate of Amendment of Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Certificate of Incorporation dated July 31, 2019.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019.
3.4 Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation filed with the Department of State of New York on July 31, 2019.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019.
3.3 Certificate of Amendment of Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Certificate of Incorporation dated July 31, 2019.
3.4 Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation filed with the Department of State of New York on July 31, 2019.


part2.txt
3.3 Certificate of Amendment of Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Certificate of Incorporation dated July 31, 2019.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019.
3.4 Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation filed with the Department of State of New York on July 31, 2019.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019.
3.3 Certificate of Amendment of Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Certificate of Incorporation dated July 31, 2019.
3.4 Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation filed with the Department of State of New York on July 31, 2019.


