item1.txt
ASC Topic 606 defines a five-step process to recognize revenue and requires more judgment and estimates within the revenue recognition process than required under previous U.S. GAAP, including identifying performance obligations in the contract, estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation.
Some of these conforming changes such as those related to the definition of minimum lease payments, may potentially result in certain lease arrangements, which are currently accounted for as operating leases, being classified and accounted for as sales-type leases with a corresponding up-front recognition of equipment sales revenue.
On the Lessor side, the Company continues to assess the potential impacts of the guidance on its lease agreements with customers, including potential changes in contracting terms, and we also expect to elect the package of practical expedients.
The update impacts financial assets and net investment in leases that are not accounted for at fair value through Net income.
This update provides specific guidance on eight cash flow classification issues where current guidance is either unclear or does not include specific requirements.
We reported $56 and $110 of collections on beneficial interests as operating cash inflows on the Statement of Cash Flows for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, respectively.
There is no expected impact to our 2018 cash flows from this reporting change, due to the termination of all accounts receivable sales arrangements in North America and most arrangements in Europe and the final repurchase of previously sold finance receivables during the fourth quarter of 2017.
The other seven issues noted in this update are not expected to have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
The update requires that amounts generally described as restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents should be included with Cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts shown on the statement of cash flows.
We held $64 and $75 of restricted cash, currently reported in Other current or long-term assets at June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
The changes in our restricted cash balances were primarily related to our accounts receivable sales programs, which were terminated during the fourth quarter of 2017.
Accordingly, this update is not expected to have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
The loss from operations for the six months ended June 30, 2017 primarily reflected changes in estimates of separation-related costs.
These incremental adjustments primarily relate to Fuji Xerox’s Asia Pacific subsidiaries and involve improper revenue recognition, including revenue associated with leasing transactions, additional provisions for bad debt allowances and other asset impairments.
However, since the 2019 and 2020 performance measures have not been approved as of June 30, 2018, the criteria needed to establish a grant date has not been met and therefore the fair value of the April 2018 grant will continue to be revalued based on the period end stock price for each subsequent reporting period until the grant date criteria has been met.
On April 27, 2018, the Court issued decisions and orders granting plaintiffs’ preliminary injunction motions, which (i) enjoin Xerox from “taking any further action to consummate the change of control transaction between Xerox and Fuji that was announced on January 31, 2018 pending a final determination of the claims asserted in the underlying action;” (ii) enjoin Xerox from enforcing its advance notice bylaw provision requiring shareholders to nominate directors for election at the 2018 annual shareholder meeting by December 11, 2017; and (iii) require Xerox to waive such advance notice bylaw provision to permit the noticing of a slate of director nominees for election at the 2018 annual shareholder meeting, and denying defendants’ motions to dismiss.
On June 18, 2018, Fujifilm filed a complaint against Xerox in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, relating to the Fuji Transaction agreements.
Icahn and Deason and using as a pretext issues with Fujifilm’s untimely submitted financials, and by settling the Deason litigation without notice to or consent by Fujifilm; (2) willfully breached the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing by failing to support and use best efforts to conclude the Fuji Transaction, thus depriving Fujifilm of the benefit of its bargain; and (3) effected a change in Xerox’s recommendation regarding the Fuji Transaction, entitling Fujifilm to terminate the Fuji Transaction agreements and to receive from Xerox a $183 termination fee.
We have issued or provided approximately $328 of guarantees as of June 30, 2018 in the form of letters of credit or surety bonds issued to i) support certain insurance programs; ii) support our obligations related to the Brazil tax and labor contingencies; and iii) support certain contracts, primarily with public sector customers, which require us to provide a surety bond as a guarantee of our performance of contractual obligations.
Under the terms of the Transaction Agreements, Fuji Xerox would have become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Xerox, Xerox shareholders would have received a $2.5 billion special cash dividend and Xerox would have become owned 49.9% by Xerox's shareholders as of the closing date for the transaction and 50.1% by Fujifilm.
As a result of the failure by Fujifilm to deliver the audited financial statements of FX by April 15, 2018 and the material deviations reflected in the audited financial statements of FX, when delivered, the Company determined that it is in the best interest of the Company and its shareholders to terminate the Subscription Agreement in accordance with the termination rights set forth therein, taking into account other circumstances limiting the ability of the Company, Fujifilm and FX to consummate a transaction.
On January 31, 2018, Xerox entered into a Commitment Letter with Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., which provided a commitment for a $2.5 billion unsecured bridge loan facility that would have been available for Xerox to pay the special one-time cash dividend of $2.5 billion to existing shareholders of Xerox in connection with the Transaction Agreements, as described above.


item2.txt
The decrease in Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to the prior year periods was primarily due to Transaction and related costs, net and lower revenues.
The decrease in Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the six months ended June 30, 2018 was also negatively impacted by lower Equity in net income from unconsolidated affiliates, which included our share of a significant restructuring charge recorded by Fuji Xerox and Income tax expense.
The decrease in adjusted1 Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to the prior year periods was primarily related to lower revenues, partially offset by the continued benefits of cost savings and productivity improvements, as well as gains from the sale of non-core assets.
The decrease in adjusted1 Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the six months ended June 30, 2018 was also impacted by lower Equity in net income from unconsolidated affiliates, which included an out of period adjustment recorded during the first quarter 2018, as well as higher income taxes.
The increase was primarily due to the prior year reclassification of $110 million of collections of deferred proceeds and beneficial interests from the sale of receivables to investing cash flows as a result of an accounting change (refer to Note 3 - Recent Accounting Pronouncements in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information) and improved working capital2.
Equipment gross margin for the six months ended June 30, 2018 of 32.1% increased 2.4-percentage points as compared to the prior year period, reflecting benefits from transaction currency and cost productivity savings.
SAG of $1,252 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 was $8 million lower than the prior year period, including an approximate $29 million unfavorable impact from currency as well as $29 million of charges related to the accelerated depreciation from the early termination of a capital lease associated with a surplus facility ($22 million) and the write-off of an IT project ($7 million).
Restructuring and related costs were $62 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and included $64 million of severance costs related to headcount reductions of approximately 950 employees worldwide and $12 million of lease cancellation costs partially offset by $14 million of net reversals for changes in estimated reserves from prior period initiatives.
When combined with financing interest expense (Cost of financing), total interest expense decreased by $3 million from the prior year comparable period primarily due to a lower debt balance reflecting debt repayments of approximately $1.3 billion in the first quarter 2017 partially offset by $1.0 billion of new debt issued in the third quarter 2017 to fund, among other things, a $500 million voluntary contribution to our U.S. defined benefit pension plans; the decline also reflected lower average interest rates.
The six months ended June 30, 2018 equity loss included an approximate $28 million charge related to the out-of-period adjustments described in Note 9 - Investments in Affiliates, at Equity, in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and in the "Fuji Xerox Adjustments" section above.
Equity in net income (loss) of unconsolidated affiliates for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 included $1 million and $80 million, respectively, of higher year-over-year charges related to our share of Fuji Xerox after-tax restructuring and other charges.
On an adjusted1 basis, Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox was $391 million, or $1.48 per diluted share and includes Restructuring and related costs, Amortization of intangible assets, Transaction and related costs, net and Non-service retirement-related costs as described in our Non-GAAP Financial Measures section.
On an adjusted1 basis, Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox was $400 million, or $1.52 per diluted share and includes Restructuring and related costs, Amortization of intangible assets, and Non-service retirement-related costs as well as other discrete, unusual or infrequent items as described in our Non-GAAP Financial Measures section.
Second quarter 2018 Other Comprehensive Loss, Net Attributable to Xerox was $235 million and included $322 million of net translation adjustment losses reflecting the weakening of our major foreign currencies against the U.S. Dollar in the second quarter 2018 partially offset by net gains from the changes in defined benefit plans of $90 million primarily due to currency impacts on net actuarial losses.
This compares to second quarter 2017 Other Comprehensive Income, Net Attributable to Xerox of $161 million, which included net translation adjustment gains of $204 million reflecting the strengthening of our major foreign currencies against the U.S. Dollar in the second quarter 2017 partially offset by losses from the net changes in defined benefit plans of $29 million primarily due to currency impacts on net actuarial losses.
Other Comprehensive Loss, Net Attributable to Xerox for the six months ended June 30, 2018 was $24 million and included $146 million of net translation adjustment losses reflecting the weakening of our major foreign currencies against the U.S. Dollar in the first half of 2018 partially offset by net gains from the changes in defined benefit plans 
This compares to Other Comprehensive Income, Net Attributable to Xerox for the six months ended June 30, 2017 of $327 million, which included net translation adjustment gains of $337 million reflecting the strengthening of our major foreign currencies against the U.S. Dollar in the first half of 2017.


item4.txt
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 13, 2018.
10.1 Director Appointment, Nomination and Settlement Agreement, dated as of May 13, 2018, by and among Registrant, Darwin Deason, the persons and entities listed on Schedule A thereto, William Curt Hunter, Jeffrey Jacobson, Robert J.
10.2 Memorandum of Understanding, dated May 13, 2018, by and among representatives acting on behalf of Deason, Registrant, the Existing Directors and the other parties thereto.
10.4 Letter Agreement dated May 14, 2018 between Registrant and John Visentin.
10.1 Director Appointment, Nomination and Settlement Agreement, dated as of May 13, 2018, by and among Registrant, Darwin Deason, the persons and entities listed on Schedule A thereto, William Curt Hunter, Jeffrey Jacobson, Robert J.
10.2 Memorandum of Understanding, dated May 13, 2018, by and among representatives acting on behalf of Deason, Registrant, the Existing Directors and the other parties thereto.
10.4 Letter Agreement dated May 14, 2018 between Registrant and John Visentin.


part2.txt
10.1 Director Appointment, Nomination and Settlement Agreement, dated as of May 13, 2018, by and among Registrant, Darwin Deason, the persons and entities listed on Schedule A thereto, William Curt Hunter, Jeffrey Jacobson, Robert J.
10.2 Memorandum of Understanding, dated May 13, 2018, by and among representatives acting on behalf of Deason, Registrant, the Existing Directors and the other parties thereto.
10.4 Letter Agreement dated May 14, 2018 between Registrant and John Visentin.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
10.1 Director Appointment, Nomination and Settlement Agreement, dated as of May 13, 2018, by and among Registrant, Darwin Deason, the persons and entities listed on Schedule A thereto, William Curt Hunter, Jeffrey Jacobson, Robert J.
10.2 Memorandum of Understanding, dated May 13, 2018, by and among representatives acting on behalf of Deason, Registrant, the Existing Directors and the other parties thereto.
10.4 Letter Agreement dated May 14, 2018 between Registrant and John Visentin.


