item1.txt
Some of these conforming changes, such as those related to the definition of lease term and minimum lease payments, resulted in certain lease arrangements, that would have been previously accounted for as operating leases, to be classified and accounted for as sales-type leases with a corresponding up-front recognition of equipment sales revenue.
We also elected the package of practical expedients not to reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs and the lessee practical expedient to combine lease and non-lease components for certain asset classes (real estate lease arrangements for offices and warehouses).
Operating lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at the commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
Xerox has one finance lease for equipment and related infrastructure within an outsourced warehouse supply arrangement in the U.S. The lease expires in December 2023 and has a remaining lease obligation of $7 as of September 30, 2019 based on a discount rate of 4.07%.
In February 2018, five complaints (the "Fuji Transaction Shareholder Lawsuits"), including four putative class actions (which have been consolidated), were filed by Xerox shareholders in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, County of New York (the "Court") in connection with the proposed transaction to combine Xerox and Fuji Xerox (the “Fuji Transaction”).
Another complaint was filed by Mr. Deason against Xerox and its directors in the same Court on March 2, 2018 ("Deason II") alleging that defendants breached their fiduciary duties by refusing Mr. Deason’s request for a waiver of the deadline for nomination of a new slate of Xerox directors.
On April 27, 2018, the Court issued decisions and orders granting plaintiffs’ preliminary injunction motions, which (i) enjoined Xerox from “taking any further action to consummate the change of control transaction between Xerox and Fuji that was announced on January 31, 2018 pending a final determination of the claims asserted in the underlying action;” (ii) enjoined Xerox from enforcing its advance notice bylaw provision requiring shareholders to nominate directors for election at the 2018 annual shareholder meeting by December 11, 2017; and (iii) required Xerox to waive such advance notice bylaw provision to permit the noticing of a slate of director nominees for election at the 2018 annual shareholder meeting, and denying defendants’ motions to dismiss.
On May 13, 2018, a second Director Appointment, Nomination and Settlement Agreement (the "Final Settlement Agreement") with respect to Deason I, Deason II and the pending proxy contest in connection with Xerox's 2018 Annual Meeting of Shareholders that was initiated by the Icahn Group was signed on behalf of Mr. Deason, the Icahn Group and all defendants except Fujifilm, and a memorandum of understanding regarding settlement of the putative class case was signed by all defendants except Fujifilm.
On June 22, 2018, the Court entered an order denying a joint motion by the putative class plaintiffs and the settling defendants to dissolve the injunction in the putative class case as against the settling defendants, and entered an order denying Fujifilm’s motion to dissolve the injunctions in the putative class case and Deason I in their entirety.
On August 2, 2018, the Appellate Division entered orders recognizing the Xerox defendants’ withdrawal of their appeal in the Deason cases and denying all appellants’ motions to stay pending determination of appeals in the Deason and putative class cases.
On October 16, 2018, the Appellate Division entered a decision and order reversing the Court’s rulings, ordering that the claims brought against Fujifilm in the cases by Mr. Deason and the purported class be dismissed, and further ordering that the preliminary injunction of the proposed Fuji Transaction be dissolved (the “Appellate Decision and Order”).
On November 15, 2018, the putative class plaintiffs filed with the Appellate Division a motion seeking the opportunity to reargue Fujifilm’s appeal or, in the alternative, for leave to appeal the Appellate Decision and Order to the New York State Court of Appeals.
On December 6, 2018, pursuant to the Appellate Decision and Order, the Court entered a judgment dismissing the complaints against Fujifilm in Deason I and the putative class case.
On January 8, 2019, the Court entered an order staying all further proceedings in Deason I and the putative class case until thirty days after exhaustion of appeals, including any appeals to the New York State Court of Appeals, of the Appellate Decision and Order.
On January 9, 2019, the Court entered an order denying the putative class plaintiffs’ motion to transmit notice to the proposed class, without prejudice to renewal of their motion at a later time.
On October 31, 2018 and January 3, 2019, respectively, Xerox and the Xerox director defendants in the putative class case filed with the Appellate Division a request and motion seeking an extension, until after any decision regarding approval of settlement of the putative class action, of the deadline by which to perfect their appeal of the Court’s April 27, 2018 decision and order.
On February 21, 2019, the Appellate Division issued an order denying the putative class plaintiffs’ motion seeking to reargue Fujifilm’s appeal or, in the alternative, for leave to appeal the Appellate Decision and Order to the New York State Court of Appeals.
On June 6, 2019, the Court entered an order pursuant to which plaintiffs submitted their motion to approve attorneys’ fees and expenses on July 19, 2019; requiring filing of any objections to or opt-outs from the proposed putative class settlement by August 9, 2019; and setting September 6, 2019 for its hearing on putative class plaintiffs’ motion for class certification and settlement approval.
On April 11, 2019, Carmen Ribbe filed a putative derivative and class action stockholder complaint in the Supreme Court of the State of New York for New York County, naming as defendants Xerox, current Board members Gregory Q.
On October 21, 2016, the Oklahoma Firefighters Pension and Retirement System (“plaintiff”) filed a purported securities class action complaint against Xerox Corporation, Ursula Burns, Luca Maestri, Kathryn Mikells, Lynn Blodgett and Robert Zapfel (collectively, “defendants”) in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York on behalf of the plaintiff and certain purchasers or acquirers of Xerox common stock.
Subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the conditions set forth in the Stock Purchase Agreement and on the terms set forth therein, the closing of the FX Sale Transaction will occur on November 8, 2019; provided, however, that if FH has not received early termination of the waiting period of the pre-transaction notification (jizen-todokede) required under the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Act of Japan (the “FEFTA Approval”) on or before November 5, 2019, then the Share Buyback will occur on November 8, 2019 and the FFAP Purchase will occur within three (3) business days following receipt of the FEFTA Approval.
The TA Amendment, among other things, (i) extends to two (2) years following the expiration of the TA (the “Transition Period”) the time period by which FX is required to transition away from the use of Xerox trademarks upon expiration of the TA, (ii) grants FX limited licenses to use Xerox trademarks for the Transition Period, subject to certain quality control standards and for a royalty in the amount of $100, payable to XC within three (3) business days from the first date of the Transition Period, and (iii) amends FX’s licenses for certain non-marking Document Processing Activities to become worldwide, royalty-free, and non-exclusive upon the expiration of the TA.
In connection with the FX Sale Transaction and concurrently with the execution and delivery of the Stock Purchase Agreement, FX and XC entered into Amendment No. 1, dated as of November 5, 2019 (the “MPA Amendment”), to that certain Master Program Agreement (the “MPA”), dated as of September 9, 2013, relating to the supply arrangement from FX to XC for xerographic document products.


item2.txt
Third quarter 2019 Net income attributable to Xerox Holdings increased $132 million as compared to third quarter 2018 primarily due to lower non-service retirement-related costs and Income tax expense as well as higher Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates.
Net income attributable to Xerox Holdings for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 increased $311 million as compared to the prior year period primarily due to higher Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates as well as lower Income tax expense and non-service retirement-related costs.
Adjusted1 net income attributable to Xerox Holdings for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 increased $87 million as compared to the prior year period.
The decrease for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the prior year period, was driven by lower sales in North America, primarily reflecting the transitional impact associated with recently implemented organizational changes in our XBS sales organization, which continued to gradually stabilize in the third quarter 2019.
SAG of $513 million decreased $70 million as compared to third quarter 2018, reflecting productivity and restructuring savings associated with our Project Own It transformation actions as well as lower compensation and incentives (consistent with lower revenues); the decrease also includes the favorable impacts of approximately $6 million from translation currency and $5 million from higher costs in the prior year associated with the termination of certain IT projects.
SAG as a percentage of revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 of 23.6% decreased by 1.5-percentage points as compared to the prior year period, primarily reflecting the benefit from productivity and restructuring associated with our Project Own It transformation actions.
SAG for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 of $1,580 million decreased $255 million as compared to the prior year period, reflecting productivity and restructuring savings associated with our Project Own It transformation actions as well as lower compensation and incentives (consistent with lower revenues); the decrease also includes favorable impacts of approximately $28 million from translation currency and $34 million from higher costs in the prior year related to the termination of certain IT projects and the accelerated depreciation associated with the exit of a surplus real estate facility.
Non-service retirement-related costs for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 decreased $35 million and $62 million, respectively, as compared to the prior year periods, primarily driven by the favorable impact of a 2018 amendment to our U.S. Retiree Health Plan and lower losses from pension settlements in the U.S. Refer to Note 16 - Employee Benefit Plans in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding non-service retirement-related costs.
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, equity income increased $15 million and $143 million as compared to the prior year periods, primarily reflecting savings from Fuji Xerox restructuring.
Equity income for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, also increased as a result of $7 million and $71 million of lower year-over-year charges related to our share of Fuji Xerox after-tax restructuring and other charges, as compared to the respective prior year periods.
Additionally, equity income for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 increased as a result of an approximate $28 million charge related to an out-of-period charge at Fuji Xerox in the prior year.
Third quarter 2018 Net income attributable to Xerox Holdings was $89 million, or $0.34 per diluted share, which included an estimated non-cash charge of $95 million or $0.37 per diluted share associated with the Tax Act. On an adjusted1 basis, Net income attributable to Xerox Holdings was $222 million, or $0.85 per diluted share and includes adjustments for Restructuring and related costs, Amortization of intangible assets, Transaction and related costs, net as well as non-service retirement-related costs and other discrete, unusual or infrequent items as described in our Non-GAAP Financial Measures section.
Net income attributable to Xerox Holdings for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was $224 million, or $0.83 per diluted share, which included an estimated non-cash charge of $95 million or $0.37 per diluted share associated with the Tax Act. On an adjusted1 basis, Net income attributable to Xerox Holdings was $613 million, or $2.33 per diluted share and includes adjustments for Restructuring and related costs, Amortization of intangible assets, Transaction and related costs, net as well as non-service retirement-related costs and other discrete, unusual or infrequent items as described in our Non-GAAP Financial Measures section.


item4.txt
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.3 to Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019.


part2.txt
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.3 to Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019.


