fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying financial data as of January 27, 2018 and for the three and six months ended January 27, 2018 and January 28, 2017 has been prepared by the Company, without audit, pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").
These Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 29, 2017.
SOFTBANK’s share of the earnings in the venture fund are not presented separately in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as these amounts are not material for any of the fiscal periods presented.
The results of operations for the three and six months ended January 27, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the operating results for the full fiscal year or any future periods.
This resulted in an overall decrease in the effective tax rate for the six months ended January 27, 2018 due to recognition of excess tax benefits from share-based compensation.
The application of this accounting standard update did not have a material impact on the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements.
The underlying principle of the new standard is to recognize revenue when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services at an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received in exchange for those goods or services.
Cisco is on schedule in establishing new accounting policies, implementing systems and processes (including more extensive use of estimates), and internal controls necessary to support the requirements of the new standard.
Cisco will be required to record cumulative effect adjustments to retained earnings (net of tax) upon adopting the new standard at the beginning of fiscal 2019.
The most significant of these adjustments will be to reduce product deferred revenue and increase retained earnings at the date of adoption to reflect revenue that would have been already recognized under the new standard related to existing arrangements.
There will also be an adjustment to increase accounts receivable and reduce inventories related to the changes in revenue recognition on sales to two-tier distributors.
Lastly, an adjustment will be recorded to establish an asset and increase retained earnings related to the requirement to capitalize incremental contract acquisition costs for customer contracts.
The accounting standard update will be effective for Cisco beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, and early adoption is permitted.
While Cisco is currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on its Consolidated Financial Statements, Cisco expects that this accounting standard update will increase the variability of other income (loss), net.


item2.txt
We experienced solid revenue growth in Security and Applications and modest growth in Infrastructure Platforms, and we continued to make progress in the transition of our business model to increased software and subscriptions.
We continue to operate in a challenging and highly competitive environment, which has negatively impacted certain of our offerings within our Infrastructure Platforms product category.
We had a net loss of $8.8 billion and a net loss per share of $1.78, primarily due to the $11.1 billion provisional tax expense related to the Tax Act, comprised of $9.0 billion U.S. transition tax, $1.2 billion of foreign withholding tax, and $0.9 billion of net deferred tax assets re-measurement.
In terms of our geographic segments, revenue from the Americas increased $344 million, driven in large part by product revenue growth in the United States.
The “BRICM” countries experienced product revenue growth of 2% in the aggregate, driven by increased product revenue in the emerging countries of China, Russia and Brazil of 8%, 17% and 11%, respectively, partially offset by product revenue declines in India and Mexico of 11% and 4%, respectively.
From a customer market standpoint, we experienced product revenue growth in the public sector and commercial markets, partially offset by a product revenue decline in the service provider market.
From a product category perspective, product revenue increased 3% led by solid product revenue growth in Security and Applications, which each grew by 6%.
We experienced a 2% product revenue increase in Infrastructure Platforms and we saw broad strength across the portfolio.


item3.txt
Our primary objective for holding fixed income securities is to achieve an appropriate investment return consistent with preserving principal and managing risk.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Brazil Brazilian authorities have investigated our Brazilian subsidiary and certain of its former employees, as well as a Brazilian importer of our products, and its affiliates and employees, relating to alleged evasion of import taxes and alleged improper transactions involving the subsidiary and the importer.
Brazilian tax authorities have assessed claims against our Brazilian subsidiary based on a theory of joint liability with the Brazilian importer for import taxes, interest, and penalties.
In addition to claims asserted by the Brazilian federal tax authorities in prior fiscal years, tax authorities from the Brazilian state of Sao Paulo have asserted similar claims on the same legal basis in prior fiscal years.
The asserted claims by Brazilian federal tax authorities that remain are for calendar years 2003 through 2007, and the asserted claims by the tax authorities from the state of Sao Paulo are for calendar years 2005 through 2007.
The total asserted claims by Brazilian state and federal tax authorities aggregate to $257 million for the alleged evasion of import and other taxes, $1.6 billion for interest, and $1.2 billion for various penalties, all determined using an exchange rate as of January 27, 2018.
We have completed a thorough review of the matters and believe the asserted claims against our Brazilian subsidiary are without merit, and we are defending the claims vigorously.
While we believe there is no legal basis for the alleged liability, due to the complexities and uncertainty surrounding the judicial process in Brazil and the nature of the claims asserting joint liability with the importer, we are unable to determine the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome against our Brazilian subsidiary and are unable to reasonably estimate a range of loss, if any.


