fls.txt



item1.txt
We have prepared the accompanying financial data as of October 26, 2019 and for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019, without audit, pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations.
These Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 27, 2019.
Our consolidated financial statements include our accounts and entities consolidated under the variable interest and voting models.
The noncontrolling interests attributed to these investments, if any, are presented as a separate component from our equity in the equity section of the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Leases In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 842, Leases, a new standard requiring lessees to recognize operating and finance lease liabilities on the balance sheet, as well as corresponding right-of-use (ROU) assets.
ASC 842 requires adoption using the modified retrospective approach, with the option of applying the requirements of the standard either i) retrospectively to each prior comparative reporting period presented, or ii) retrospectively at the beginning of the period of adoption.
We adopted this standard at the beginning of our first quarter of fiscal 2020 and applied it at the beginning of the period of adoption and did not restate prior periods.
We adopted ASC 842 on July 28, 2019 which resulted in the recognition of $1.2 billion of operating lease ROU assets included in other assets and $1.2 billion of operating lease liabilities included in other current liabilities and other long-term liabilities.
Our ROU lease assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments related to the lease.
We use incremental borrowing rates based on information available at the commencement date to determine the present value of our lease payments.
We allocate the consideration in a bundled contract with our customers based on relative standalone selling prices of our lease and non-lease components.
The residual value on our leased equipment is determined at the inception of the lease based on an analysis of estimates of the value of equipment, market factors and historical customer behavior.
Residual value estimates are reviewed on a periodic basis and other-than-temporary declines are expensed in the period they occur.
We classify our hardware, perpetual software licenses, and software-as-a-service (SaaS) as distinct performance obligations.


item2.txt
Across networking, security, collaboration, applications and the cloud, we are integrating intent-based technologies to help our customers manage more users, devices and things connecting to their networks.
While the overall environment remains uncertain, we continue to aggressively invest in priority areas with the objective of driving profitable growth over the long term.
Total gross margin increased by 2.0 percentage points, driven by productivity improvements and product mix, and to a lesser extent, partially offset by unfavorable impacts from pricing.
Diluted earnings per share decreased by 12%, driven by a 18% decrease in net income and a decrease in diluted share count of 341 million shares.
The “BRICM” countries experienced a product revenue decline of 30% in the aggregate, driven by decreased product revenue in the emerging countries of Mexico, India, China, Russia and Brazil of 41%, 37%, 33%, 8% and 7%, respectively.
From a customer market standpoint, we experienced a product revenue decline in the service provider market and a slight decline in the enterprise market.
The increase was driven by solid product revenue growth in Security and Applications of 22% and 6%, respectively, and was offset by a product revenue decrease in Infrastructure Platforms of 1%.


item3.txt
Our primary objective for holding available-for-sale debt investments is to achieve an appropriate investment return consistent with preserving principal and managing risk.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Instability in the global credit markets, the impact of uncertainty regarding global central bank monetary policy, the instability in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world including as a result of the pending United Kingdom “Brexit” withdrawal from the European Union, the current economic challenges in China, including global economic ramifications of Chinese economic difficulties, and other disruptions may continue to put pressure on global economic conditions.
Our operating results in one or more segments may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions particularly germane to that segment or to particular customer markets within that segment.
In addition, reports of certain intelligence gathering methods of the U.S. government could affect customers’ perception of the products of IT companies which design and manufacture products in the United States.
As a result of a variety of factors discussed in this report, our revenue for a particular quarter is difficult to predict, especially in light of a challenging and inconsistent global macroeconomic environment and related market uncertainty.
We have experienced periods of time during which shipments have exceeded net bookings or manufacturing issues have delayed shipments, leading to nonlinearity in shipping patterns.
In addition to making it difficult to predict revenue for a particular period, nonlinearity in shipping can increase costs, because irregular shipment patterns result in periods of underutilized capacity and periods in which overtime expenses may be incurred, as well as in potential additional inventory management-related costs.
Such multiple ordering (along with other factors) or risk of order cancellation may cause difficulty in predicting our revenue and, as a result, could impair our ability to manage parts inventory effectively.


