fls.txt



item1.txt
Our consolidated financial statements include our accounts and entities consolidated under the variable interest and voting models.
The noncontrolling interests attributed to these investments, if any, are presented as a separate component from our equity in the equity section of the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
In the opinion of management, all normal recurring adjustments necessary to present fairly the consolidated balance sheet as of April 27, 2019; the results of operations and the statements of comprehensive income (loss) for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018; the statements of cash flows for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018; and the statements of equity for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, as applicable, have been made.
The results of operations for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the operating results for the full fiscal year or any future periods.
The underlying principle of ASC 606 is to recognize revenue when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services at an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received in exchange for those goods or services.
In addition to the above revenue recognition timing impacts, ASC 606 requires incremental contract acquisition costs (such as sales commissions) for customer contracts to be capitalized and amortized on a systematic basis that is consistent with the transfer to the customer of the goods or services to which the assets relates.
We enter into contracts with customers that can include various combinations of products and services which are generally distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations.
We determine whether arrangements are distinct based on whether the customer can benefit from the product or service on its own or together with other resources that are readily available and whether our commitment to transfer the product or service to the customer is separately identifiable from other obligations in the contract.
We classify our hardware, perpetual software licenses, and software-as-a-service (SaaS) as distinct performance obligations.
Term software licenses represent multiple obligations, which include software licenses and software maintenance.
We refer to our term software licenses, security software licenses, SaaS, and associated service arrangements as subscription offers.
We recognize revenue upon transfer of control of promised goods or services in a contract with a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products or services.
Transfer of control can also occur over time for software maintenance and services as the customer receives the benefit over the contract term.
Our hardware and perpetual software licenses are distinct performance obligations where revenue is recognized upfront upon transfer of control.
Term software licenses include multiple performance obligations where the term licenses are recognized upfront upon transfer of control, with the associated software maintenance revenue recognized ratably over the contract term as services and software updates are provided.


item2.txt
Notwithstanding the third quarter fiscal 2019 results, we continue to operate in a challenging and highly competitive environment.
Within total revenue, product revenue increased by 4% and service revenue increased by 2%.
In terms of our geographic segments, revenue from the Americas increased $534 million, driven in large part by product revenue growth in the United States.
The “BRICM” countries experienced a product revenue decline of 15% in the aggregate, driven by decreased product revenue in the emerging countries of Russia, China, India, Mexico and Brazil of 25%, 21%, 10%, 6% and 5%, respectively.
From a customer market standpoint, we experienced product revenue growth in the public sector, enterprise and commercial markets, partially offset by a product revenue decline in the service provider market.
From a product category perspective, total product revenue, not including SPVSS products in the prior year period, increased 7% year over year.
The increase was driven by a 5% product revenue increase in Infrastructure Platforms, solid product revenue growth in Applications of 9%, and strong growth in Security of 21%.


item3.txt
Available-for-Sale Debt Investments We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Instability in the global credit markets, the impact of uncertainty regarding global central bank monetary policy, the instability in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world including as a result of the pending United Kingdom “Brexit” withdrawal from the European Union, the current economic challenges in China, including global economic ramifications of Chinese economic difficulties, and other disruptions may continue to put pressure on global economic conditions.
Our operating results in one or more segments may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions particularly germane to that segment or to particular customer markets within that segment.
Impairment of that trust, or foreign regulatory actions taken in response to reports of certain intelligence gathering methods of the U.S. government, could affect the demand for our products from customers outside of the United States and could have an adverse effect on our operating results.
As a result of a variety of factors discussed in this report, our revenue for a particular quarter is difficult to predict, especially in light of a challenging and inconsistent global macroeconomic environment and related market uncertainty.
We have experienced periods of time during which shipments have exceeded net bookings or manufacturing issues have delayed shipments, leading to nonlinearity in shipping patterns.
In addition to making it difficult to predict revenue for a particular period, nonlinearity in shipping can increase costs, because irregular shipment patterns result in periods of underutilized capacity and periods in which overtime expenses may be incurred, as well as in potential additional inventory management-related costs.
The timing of such orders is difficult to predict, and the timing of revenue recognition from such orders may affect period to period changes in revenue.


