fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying financial data as of April 28, 2018 and for the three and nine months ended April 28, 2018 and April 29, 2017 has been prepared by the Company, without audit, pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").
The Company consolidates its investments in a venture fund managed by SOFTBANK Corp. and its affiliates (“SOFTBANK”) as this is a variable interest entity and the Company is the primary beneficiary.
The application of this accounting standard update did not have a material impact on the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements.
Adoption of this standard resulted in a decrease of $45 million to retained earnings due to the reclassification from AOCI to retained earnings.
The new standard will supersede nearly all U.S. GAAP on revenue recognition and eliminate industry-specific guidance.
The underlying principle of the new standard is to recognize revenue when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services at an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received in exchange for those goods or services.
Cisco has completed its preliminary assessment of the financial statement impact of the new standard, as discussed below, and will continue to update that assessment as more information becomes available.
In addition to the above revenue recognition timing impacts, the new standard will require incremental contract acquisition costs (such as sales commissions) for customer contracts to be capitalized and amortized over the contract period.
The most significant of these adjustments will be to reduce product deferred revenue and increase retained earnings at the date of adoption to reflect revenue that would have been already recognized under the new standard related to existing arrangements.
Lastly, an adjustment will be recorded to establish an asset and increase retained earnings related to the requirement to capitalize incremental contract acquisition costs for customer contracts.
The accounting standard update will be effective for Cisco beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, and early adoption is permitted.
The accounting standard update will be effective for Cisco beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 on a modified retrospective basis, and early adoption is permitted.
Cisco is currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accounting standard update will be effective for Cisco beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 on a modified retrospective basis, and early adoption in fiscal 2020 is permitted.


item2.txt
Across networking, security, collaboration and the cloud, our evolving intent-based technologies are constantly learning and adapting to provide customers with a highly secure, intelligent platform for their digital business.
In the third quarter of fiscal 2018, we saw broad strength across the business and delivered strong revenue growth and solid margins.
We remain focused on accelerating innovation across our portfolio, and we believe that we have made continued progress on our strategic priorities.
We continue to operate in a challenging and highly competitive environment, which has negatively impacted routing products within our Infrastructure Platforms product category.
While the overall environment remains uncertain, we continue to aggressively invest in priority areas with the objective of driving profitable growth over the long term.
In terms of our geographic segments, revenue from the Americas increased $115 million, EMEA revenue increased by $282 million, and revenue in our APJC segment increased by $126 million.
From a customer market standpoint, we experienced solid product revenue growth in the commercial market and to a lesser extent in the enterprise and public sector markets.
From a product category perspective, the product revenue increase of 5% was driven by a 2% product revenue increase in Infrastructure Platforms and solid product revenue growth in Applications and Security, which grew by 19% and 11%, respectively.


item3.txt
Fixed Income Securities We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Brazil Brazilian authorities have investigated our Brazilian subsidiary and certain of its former employees, as well as a Brazilian importer of our products, and its affiliates and employees, relating to alleged evasion of import taxes and alleged improper transactions involving the subsidiary and the importer.
Brazilian tax authorities have assessed claims against our Brazilian subsidiary based on a theory of joint liability with the Brazilian importer for import taxes, interest, and penalties.
In addition to claims asserted by the Brazilian federal tax authorities in prior fiscal years, tax authorities from the Brazilian state of Sao Paulo have asserted similar claims on the same legal basis in prior fiscal years.
The asserted claims by Brazilian federal tax authorities that remain are for calendar years 2003 through 2007, and the asserted claims by the tax authorities from the state of Sao Paulo are for calendar years 2005 through 2007.
The total asserted claims by Brazilian state and federal tax authorities aggregate to $234 million for the alleged evasion of import and other taxes, $1.5 billion for interest, and $1.1 billion for various penalties, all determined using an exchange rate as of April 28, 2018.
We have completed a thorough review of the matters and believe the asserted claims against our Brazilian subsidiary are without merit, and we are defending the claims vigorously.
While we believe there is no legal basis for the alleged liability, due to the complexities and uncertainty surrounding the judicial process in Brazil and the nature of the claims asserting joint liability with the importer, we are unable to determine the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome against our Brazilian subsidiary and are unable to reasonably estimate a range of loss, if any.


