Sales of our products and systems are subject to limited warranty obligations that are included in customer contracts. For sales that include installation services, warranty obligations generally extend for a period of 12 to 24 months from the date of either shipment or acceptance based on the contract terms. Product obligations generally extend for a period of 12 to 24 months from the date of purchase. Certain products offered in our Sensors segment include a lifetime warranty. 
We disaggregate our revenue by reportable segment, sales type (product or service), the timing of recognition of revenue for transfer of goods or services to customers (point-in-time or over time), and geographic market based on the billing location of the customer. See Note 16 for further information on our reportable segments and intersegment revenue.
During the three months ended December 29, 2018, 230 stock options were granted at a weighted average fair value of $9.89. During the three months ended December 30, 2017, no stock options were granted. 
Under the terms of these warranties, we are obligated to repair or replace any components or assemblies deemed defective due to workmanship or materials. We reserve the right to reject warranty claims where it is determined that failure is due to normal wear, customer modifications, improper maintenance or misuse. We record general warranty provisions based on an estimated warranty expense percentage applied to current period revenue. The percentage applied reflects our historical warranty claims experience over the preceding 12-month period. Both the experience percentage and the warranty liability are evaluated on an ongoing basis for adequacy. Warranty provisions are also recognized for certain unanticipated product claims that are individually significant.
We have a 5-4-4 week, quarterly accounting cycle with our fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to September 30. Fiscal year 2019 ending on September 28, 2019 will consist of 52 weeks. Fiscal year 2018 ended on September 29, 2018 and consisted of 52 weeks. 
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), followed by related amendments (collectively, "the new revenue standard" or "ASC 606") to provide a single, comprehensive revenue recognition model for all contracts with customers. Under the new revenue standard, a company recognizes revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration a company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. Determination of when and how revenue is recognized is based on a five-step analysis. Enhanced disclosures regarding the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from a company's contracts with customers are required. 
In the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, in conjunction with the E2M acquisition, we entered into a third amendment to the Credit Agreement to increase the borrowing capacity on the Revolving Credit Facility from $120,000 to $150,000 and extend the expiration date of the Revolving Credit Facility from July 5, 2021 to July 5, 2022. Additionally, the required performance levels under certain financial covenants were modified. During the three months ended December 29, 2018, we incurred debt financing costs of $541 as a result of this amendment which were capitalized in current maturities of long-term debt, net and long-term debt, less current maturities, net in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
In connection with the pricing of the TEUs sold in our public offering in fiscal year 2016, we purchased capped calls from third party banking institutions (Capped Calls) for $7,935. The initial Capped Calls were for 2,282 equivalent shares of our common stock with a strike price of $50.40, a cap price of $58.80 and an expiration date of July 1, 2019. The value of the Capped Calls is settled with shares of our common stock, based on the approximate market value of our common stock at such time, and could be settled as the TEUs were early converted or settled upon expiration on July 1, 2019 (Capped Call Expiration). During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017, we settled approximately 10% of the Capped Calls, which resulted in us receiving and retiring 12 shares of our common stock. No Capped Calls were settled during fiscal years 2019 and 2018.
Our Sensors contracts generally have a single performance obligation which is satisfied at a point in time. The performance obligation is a stand-alone sensor product, accessory, service or software license. Sensors contracts are generally fixed-price purchase order fulfillment contracts, and the transaction price is equal to the observable consideration in the contract. Revenue is recognized when obligations under the terms of the contract with our customer are satisfied; generally this occurs with the transfer of control upon product shipment (as evidenced by shipment or delivery terms) or with the performance of the service. 
Intersegment revenue is based on standard costs with reasonable mark-ups established between the reportable segments. All significant intersegment amounts are eliminated to arrive at consolidated financial results. 
We make an annual stock grant under the 2017 Plan of stock options, restricted stock units and performance restricted stock units, as well as stock grants throughout the fiscal year. For fiscal years 2019, 2018 and 2017, the annual stock grant occurred in December 2018, April 2018 and April 2017, respectively.The increase in cash used in investing activities was primarily due to the acquisition of E2M. 
Revenue for the three months ended December 29, 2018 increased 6.2% primarily driven by the acquisition of E2M in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and growth in service and equipment revenue, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of currency translation. Excluding the impact of currency translation and the E2M acquisition, revenue increased 4.5%. 
Revenue for the three months ended December 29, 2018 increased 2.6% primarily driven by continued growth in the Sensors position sector from strength in mobile hydraulics and industrial markets, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of currency translation. Excluding the impact of currency translation, revenue increased 3.9%.
Selling and marketing expense for the three months ended December 29, 2018 increased 3.3% primarily driven by increased compensation from headcount additions to support growth, partially offset by the favorable impact of currency translation. Excluding the impact of currency translation, selling and marketing expense increased 4.4%.
Income from operations for the three months ended December 29, 2018 increased 8.9% primarily due to lower operating expenses and higher gross profit, partially offset by acquisition-related expenses of $761 and the E2M acquisition inventory fair value adjustment of $445. Excluding the impact of currency translation, the E2M acquisition, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, income from operations increased 13.2%.
Net income and diluted earnings per share for the three months ended December 29, 2018 decreased due to an increase in the effective tax rate, partially offset by higher income from operations.On floating-rate investments, increases or decreases in market interest rates will increase or decrease future interest income, respectively. On floating-rate debt, increases or decreases in market interest rates will increase or decrease future interest expense, respectively. On fixed-rate investments, increases or decreases in market interest rates do not impact future interest income but may decrease or increase the fair market value of the investments, respectively. On fixed-rate debt, increases or decreases in market interest rates do not impact future interest expense but may decrease or increase the fair market value of the debt, respectively.In connection with the pricing of the tangible equity units (TEUs) sold in our public offering in fiscal year 2016, we purchased capped calls from third party banking institutions (Capped Calls) for $7,935. On June 13, 2018, we amended the agreements with third party banking institutions for the outstanding Capped Calls (Capped Call Agreements) to modify the timing of settlement to be only upon expiration for all outstanding Capped Calls. Per the Capped Call Agreements, the outstanding 