Sales of our products and systems are subject to limited warranty obligations that are included in customer contracts. For sales that include installation services, warranty obligations generally extend for a period of 12 to 24 months from the date of either shipment or acceptance based on the contract terms. Product obligations generally extend for a period of 12 to 24 months from the date of purchase. Certain products offered in our Sensors segment include a lifetime warranty. 
On January 5, 2017, we announced the division of our Test segment into two separate business units, "Materials Test Systems" and "Vehicles and Structure Test Systems." The division of our Test segment will result in us having three operating segments once discrete financial information is made available to our Chief Operating Decision Maker. We will continue to report only the Test and Sensors segments until such time. We continue to evaluate the timing of such implementation.
Item 1. Legal Proceedings
During fiscal year 2016, we initiated plans to reduce costs in Sensors by closing our Machida, Japan manufacturing facility in the third quarter of fiscal year 2017. We incurred $0 and $563 in the three months ended December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, respectively. As of December 30, 2017, we have incurred a total of $1,964 of pre-tax expense, including $1,444 and $520 related to severance and facility closure costs, respectively. The remaining severance and facility closing costs are expected to be paid during the third quarter of fiscal year 2018. 
During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017, in an effort to reduce costs and create economic efficiencies in Sensors, we initiated plans to close our Machida, Japan sales office in the second quarter of fiscal year 2018. In the three months ended December 30, 2017, we recorded an immaterial adjustment to the severance and related expense reported in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017. As of December 30, 2017, we have incurred a total of $112 of pre-tax severance and related expense. We expect to incur additional pre-tax severance and related expense of approximately $74. The majority of the expenses are expected to be paid in fiscal year 2018. 
There were no stock options granted during the three months ended December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016. 
Our Chief Executive Officer (the Chief Operating Decision Maker) regularly reviews financial information for our two operating segments, Test and Sensors. Test provides testing equipment, systems and services to the ground vehicles, materials and structures sectors. Sensors provides high performance sensors for acceleration, position, vibration, motion, pressure and force measurement. 
The full-year estimated annual effective tax rate, which excludes the impact of discrete items, was 17.3% as of December 30, 2017, as compared to 21.8% as of December 31, 2016. This decrease is primarily due to the reduction of the U.S. federal statutory rate from 35.0% to 24.5%, a blended rate based upon our fiscal year, partially offset by higher income before taxes.
We have a 5-4-4 week, quarterly accounting cycle with our fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to September 30. Fiscal year 2018 ending on September 29, 2018 will consist of 52 weeks. Fiscal year 2017 ended on September 30, 2017 and consisted of 52 weeks. 
vesting period. There were no performance restricted stock units granted during the three months ended December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016. We believe that our business model supports our growth objectives, provided that we continue to move aggressively to build our infrastructure, expand our offerings and execute on opportunities with our key customers around the world. In order to accelerate our revenue growth over the next five years, investments in infrastructure, sales support and field service capacity and capability are essential. 
Income from operations for the three months ended December 30, 2017 declined by 52.1% primarily due to the decrease in gross profit driven by lower equipment order volume in the first half of fiscal year 2017, partially offset by prior year China investigation expenses of $1,976. Excluding the impact of currency translation, prior year China investigation expenses and restructuring costs, income from operations decreased 55.9%.
•Adapt our industry-leading ground vehicle testing applications to align with emerging trends in vehicle electrification, autonomous vehicles, and simulation. 
Revenue for the three months ended December 30, 2017 declined by 2.6% primarily due to a decrease in Test revenue, partially offset by revenue growth in our Sensors business and the favorable impact of currency translation. Test revenue decreased $12,923 primarily driven by lower equipment order volume in the first half of fiscal year 2017. Current year Test revenue was also impacted by higher custom project backlog weighting which takes longer to convert into revenue. Sensors revenue increased $7,806 primarily driven by strong demand in the Sensors position sector and continued momentum from new revenue opportunities in the Sensors test sector. Excluding the impact of currency translation, revenue decreased 4.6%.
General and administrative expense for the three months ended December 30, 2017 declined by 14.6% primarily driven by prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses of $1,503, prior year restructuring costs and a decrease in incentive compensation. Excluding the impact of currency translation, prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses and prior year restructuring costs, general and administrative expense decreased 0.5%.
Our goal is to sustain profitable enterprise growth, consistently generate strong cash flow and deliver a strong return on invested capital to our shareholders by leveraging our leadership position in the research and development and industrial global end markets for high-performance test systems and sensors. Our desire is to be the innovation leader in creating test and measurement solutions and to provide total customer satisfaction. We believe we can create value for our customers by helping to enhance the precision, improve the reliability and create superior safety for their products, while reducing the delivery time to market for their products. Our competitive advantages include our proprietary technology and advanced application expertise, our expansive global footprint with long-term customer relationships, our large installed base of testing equipment and our expanded presence in the rapidly growing sensors market. We believe these competitive advantages position us well in both the test and sensors markets to deliver profitable growth in the years ahead.
Gross profit for the three months ended December 30, 2017 increased 6.1% primarily due to the prior year impact from the PCB acquisition driven by a fair value adjustment on acquired inventory of $7,724 and increased current year revenue volume in Sensors, partially offset by reduced revenue volume in Test. Gross margin rate increased 3.2 percentage points primarily due to the prior year impact from the PCB acquisition driven by a fair value adjustment on acquired inventory and favorable leverage on increased Sensors revenue volume, partially offset by investments to support the Test project pipeline and unfavorable leverage on lower Test revenue volume. Excluding the impact of currency translation, the prior year fair value adjustment on acquired PCB inventory, prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, gross profit declined 5.9% and the gross margin rate declined 0.6 percentage points.On floating-rate investments, increases and decreases in market interest rates will increase or decrease future interest income, respectively. On floating-rate debt, increases or decreases in market interest rates will increase or decrease future interest expense, respectively. On fixed-rate investments, increases or decreases in market interest rates do not impact future interest income but may decrease or increase the fair market value of the investments, respectively. On fixed-rate debt, increases or decreases in market interest rates do not impact future interest expense but may decrease or increase the fair market value of the debt, respectively.In connection with the pricing of the TEUs sold in our public offering in fiscal year 2016, we purchased capped calls from third party banking institutions (Capped Calls) for $7,935. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, we did not settle any of the Capped Calls. As of December 30, 2017 the range of shares of our common stock to be received under the outstanding Capped Calls was 0 to 293 shares, subject to market conditions. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.