fls.txt



item1.txt
These instruments were designated as cash flow hedges at inception and settled in conjunction with the issuance of debt in March 2017.
At January 28, 2018, equity investments in privately-held companies totaled $75 million, of which $65 million of these investments were accounted for under the cost method of accounting and $10 million of investments had been measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis within Level 3 fair value measurements due to an other-than-temporary decline in value.
The adoption of this guidance is not expected to have a significant impact on Applied’s consolidated financial statements.
Applied conducts business in a number of foreign countries, with certain transactions denominated in local currencies, such as the Japanese yen, euro, Israeli shekel and Taiwanese dollar.
Investments with remaining effective maturities of 12 months or less from the balance sheet date are classified as short-term investments.
These instruments were designated as cash flow hedges at inception and settled in conjunction with the issuance of debt in March 2017.
The adoption of this guidance is not expected to have a significant impact on Applied’s consolidated financial statements.
Applied may be required to record future charges to earnings during the period in which an impairment of goodwill or intangible assets is determined to exist.
The industries in which Applied operates are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological and market changes.
In addition, the plan provides for the automatic grant of restricted stock units to non-employee directors and permits the grant of share-based awards to non-employee directors and consultants.
This implementation requires the commitment of significant personnel and financial resources, and entails risks to Applied’s business operations.
In determining the fair value of investments, Applied uses pricing information from pricing services that value securities based on quoted market prices and models that utilize observable market inputs.
Applied’s net income has not been adjusted for any period presented for purposes of computing basic or diluted earnings per share due to the Company’s non-complex capital structure.
Applied uses derivative financial instruments, such as forward exchange contracts and currency option contracts, to hedge certain forecasted foreign currency denominated transactions expected to occur typically within the next 24 months.
•fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates, including the relative strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar against the Japanese yen, euro, Taiwanese dollar, Israeli shekel, Chinese yuan or Singapore dollar;


item2.txt
Deferred tax assets are offset by a valuation allowance to the extent it is more likely than not that they are not expected to be realized.
In fiscal 2011, Applied established a short-term commercial paper program of up to $1.5 billion.
At January 28, 2018, gross unrealized losses related to Applied’s investment portfolio were not material.
Under the market approach, Applied uses the guideline company method which applies market multiples to forecasted revenues and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.
Gross margin during the three months ended January 28, 2018 and January 29, 2017 included $22 million and $17 million of share-based compensation expense, respectively.
If actual product acceptance differs significantly from the estimates, Applied may be required to record an impairment charge to reduce the carrying value of the reporting unit to its estimated fair value.
SAB 118 provides a measurement period that will not extend beyond one year from the Tax Act enactment date for companies to complete the accounting under Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 740.
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin (“SAB”) No.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
•the increasing focus on reducing energy usage and improving the environmental impact and sustainability associated with manufacturing operations.
Applied is exposed to various risks related to protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights.
Significant changes in Applied’s credit rating or changes in the interest rate environment could have a material adverse consequence on Applied’s access to and cost of capital for future financings, and financial condition.
On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted tax legislation referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”).
Applied also maintains cash balances in various bank accounts globally in order to fund normal operations.
Applied also maintains cash balances in various bank accounts globally in order to fund normal operations.


