fls.txt



item1.txt
See Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements for further detail of existing debt.
Each reportable segment contains closely related products that are unique to the particular segment.
Applied does not believe, based on historical experience and information currently available, that it is probable that any amounts will be required to be paid under these guarantee agreements.
The number of shares that may vest in full after three years ranges from 0% to 200% of the target amount.
Applied provides for the estimated cost of warranty when revenue is recognized.
Applied’s ability to realize benefits from these incentives could be materially affected if, among other things, applicable requirements are not met or Applied incurs net losses in these jurisdictions.
Applied reviews any significant unanticipated differences identified through this analysis to determine the appropriate fair value.
Applied is exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings.
If actual warranty costs differ substantially from Applied’s estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be required.
Applied’s ability to realize benefits from these incentives could be materially affected if, among other things, applicable requirements are not met or Applied incurs net losses in these jurisdictions.
•natural disasters or other events beyond Applied’s control (such as earthquakes, floods or storms, regional economic downturns, pandemics, social unrest, political instability, terrorism, or acts of war), particularly where it conducts manufacturing.
If Applied’s credit rating were to fall below investment grade, it would be in violation of credit risk contingent provisions of the derivative instruments discussed above, and certain counterparties to the derivative instruments could request immediate payment on derivative instruments in net liability positions.
Applied may incur impairment charges related to goodwill or long-lived assets.
The industries in which Applied operates are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological and market changes.
Applied’s contract assets and liabilities are reported in a net position on a contract-by-contract basis at the end of each reporting period.
During the three and nine months ended July 28, 2019 gross realized gains and losses on investments were not material.


item2.txt
If Applied determines that the carrying value of a reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, Applied would record an impairment charge equal to the difference.
Gross margin during the three months ended July 28, 2019 and July 29, 2018 included $23 million and $22 million of share-based compensation expense, respectively.
Unforeseen component failures or exceptional component performance can also result in changes to warranty costs.
Deferred tax assets are offset by a valuation allowance to the extent it is more likely than not that they are not expected to be realized.
Gross margin during the three months ended July 28, 2019 and July 29, 2018 included $23 million and $22 million of share-based compensation expense, respectively.
See Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of goodwill impairment.
The weighted average cost of capital measures a reporting unit’s cost of debt and equity financing weighted by the percentage of debt and equity in a reporting unit’s target capital structure.
Applied’s results are driven primarily by customer spending on capital equipment and services to support key technology transitions or to increase production volume in response to worldwide demand for semiconductors and displays.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
The industries in which Applied operates are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological and market changes.
The success of these investments depends on various factors over which Applied may have limited or no control and, particularly with respect to joint ventures, requires ongoing and effective cooperation with strategic partners.
If any of these financial institutions becomes insolvent, it could limit Applied’s ability to access cash in the affected accounts, which could affect its ability to manage its operations.
Applied is exposed to risks associated with a highly concentrated customer base.
Third parties may also assert claims against Applied and its products.


