fls.txt



item1.txt
Applied generally estimates the standalone selling price of a distinct performance obligation based on historical cost plus an appropriate margin.
Many of these challenges are present in China and Korea, markets that represent significant long-term growth opportunities for Applied businesses.
As of January 27, 2019, the maximum potential amount of future payments that Applied could be required to make under these guarantee agreements was approximately $68 million.
Applied sells its products principally to manufacturers within the semiconductor and display industries.
Applied has experienced, and expects to continue to be subject to, cybersecurity threats and incidents ranging from employee error or misuse to individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to these information systems, to sophisticated and targeted measures known as advanced persistent threats, none of which have been material to the Company to date.
The awards become eligible to vest only if performance goals are achieved and will vest only if the grantee remains employed by Applied through each applicable vesting date, subject to a qualifying retirement described below.
Applied is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes specific to the display industry.
Applied may have to engage in litigation to achieve the results reflected in the estimates, which may be time-consuming and expensive.
Generally, the majority of payments are due within a certain number of days from shipment of goods or performance of service.
In addition, Applied reviews intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate their carrying value may not be recoverable.
Generally, the majority of payments are due within a certain number of days from shipment of goods or performance of service.
An accounting policy choice is allowed to either treat taxes due on future U.S. inclusions related to GILTI in taxable income as a current-period expense when incurred (the “period cost method”) or factor such amounts into the measurement of deferred taxes (the “deferred method”).
In August 2016, the FASB issued authoritative guidance which addresses classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments related to the statement of cash flows.
In March 2017, the FASB issued authoritative guidance which requires companies to present the service cost component of net benefit cost in the same line items in which they report compensation cost.
Goodwill and purchased intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortized, but are reviewed for impairment annually during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable.
Contract assets primarily result from receivables for goods transferred to customers and where payment is conditional upon technical sign off and not just the passage of time.


item2.txt
These estimates may change as new events occur, as additional information is obtained and as Applied’s operating environment changes.
The discounting of letters of credit depends on many factors, including the willingness of financial institutions to discount the letters of credit and the cost of such arrangements.
For the three months ended January 27, 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year, net sales decreased primarily due to decreased customer investments in semiconductor equipment.
Display equipment spending during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 reflected continued investment in new technology and manufacturing equipment for producing larger LCD TVs and in new equipment for mobile devices.
As of January 27, 2019, the maximum potential amount of future payments that Applied could be required to make under these guarantee agreements was approximately $68 million.
The estimates used in the impairment testing are consistent with the discrete forecasts that Applied uses to manage its business, and considers any significant developments during the period.
Applied currently anticipates that cash dividends will continue to be paid on a quarterly basis, although the declaration of any future cash dividend is at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend on Applied’s financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, business conditions and other factors, as well as a determination by the Board of Directors that cash dividends are in the best interests of Applied’s stockholders.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
If Applied does not effectively manage these challenges during periods of changing demand, its business performance and results of operations may be adversely impacted.
Proposed regulations are not authoritative and may change in the regulatory review process.
Applied may incur impairment charges related to goodwill or long-lived assets.
Applied may have to engage in litigation to achieve the results reflected in the estimates, which may be time-consuming and expensive.
Applied is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes in the various industries in which it operates.


