fls.txt



item1.txt
The adoption of this guidance is not expected to have a significant impact on Applied’s consolidated financial statements.
Under this new guidance, the point of time at which revenue is recognized for certain of these products is expected to be earlier than under current revenue recognition guidance as there will be fewer constraints related to customer acceptance.
Applied’s effective tax rates for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 and 2017 were 5.3 percent and 5.4 percent, respectively.
Applied may also enter into new financing arrangements.
Applied may have to engage in litigation to achieve the results reflected in the estimates, which may be time-consuming and expensive.
Applied typically receives deposits on future deliverables from customers in the Display and Adjacent Markets segment and, in certain instances, may also receive deposits from customers in the Applied Global Services segment.
On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
Applied assesses the fair value of the assets based on the amount of the undiscounted future cash flow that the assets are expected to generate and recognizes an impairment loss when estimated undiscounted future cash flow expected to result from the use of the asset, plus net proceeds expected from disposition of the asset, if any, are less than the carrying value of the asset.
In September 2017, the Board of Directors approved a common stock repurchase program authorizing up to $3.0 billion in repurchases.
In the conduct of its business, Applied collects, uses, transmits and stores data on information technology systems, including systems owned and maintained by Applied or third party providers.
Applied typically receives deposits on future deliverables from customers in the Display and Adjacent Markets segment and, in certain instances, may also receive deposits from customers in the Applied Global Services segment.
The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on Applied’s consolidated financial statements.
The amount recognized due to discontinuance of cash flow hedges that were probable not to occur by the end of the originally specified time period was not significant for the three and nine months ended July 29, 2018 and July 30, 2017.
Applied, from time to time, also discounts letters of credit issued by customers through various financial institutions.
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation.


item2.txt
The tax benefits recognized from such positions are estimated based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement.
Deferred tax assets are also recognized for net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards.
Applied uses market multiples that are consistent with comparable publicly-traded companies and considers each reporting unit’s size, growth and profitability relative to its comparable companies.
Non-cash charges included depreciation, amortization, share-based compensation and deferred income taxes.
Management uses non-GAAP adjusted financial measures to evaluate the Company’s operating and financial performance and for planning purposes, and as performance measures in its executive compensation program.
Deferred tax assets are also recognized for net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards.
The first nine months of fiscal 2018 included tax expense of $1.1 billion for the transition tax and remeasurement of deferred tax assets partially offset by tax benefits from the lower U.S. federal corporate tax rate, changes in the geographical composition of income, adoption of authoritative guidance for share-based compensation and the resolution of tax liabilities for uncertain tax positions.
The tax benefits recognized from such positions are estimated based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
•the variability in demand for display manufacturing equipment, concentration of display manufacturer customers and their ability to successfully commercialize new products and technologies, and uncertainty with respect to future display technology end-use applications and growth drivers.
•the variability in demand for display manufacturing equipment, concentration of display manufacturer customers and their ability to successfully commercialize new products and technologies, and uncertainty with respect to future display technology end-use applications and growth drivers.
Infringement of Applied’s rights by a third party, such as the unauthorized manufacture or sale of equipment or spare parts, could result in uncompensated lost market and revenue opportunities for Applied.
The industries that Applied serves can be volatile and difficult to predict.
Significant judgment is required to determine and estimate worldwide tax liabilities.


