fls.txt



item1.txt
Accordingly, changes in the fair value of these hedges are recorded in earnings to offset the changes in the fair value of the assets or liabilities being hedged.
Applied assesses the fair value of the assets based on the amount of the undiscounted future cash flow that the assets are expected to generate and recognizes an impairment loss when estimated undiscounted future cash flow expected to result from the use of the asset, plus net proceeds expected from disposition of the asset, if any, are less than the carrying value of the asset.
Amounts as of October 28, 2018 are derived from the October 28, 2018 audited consolidated financial statements.
As of April 28, 2019, the aggregate principal amount of long-term debt was $5.4 billion, and the estimated fair value was $5.7 billion.
•fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates, including the relative strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar against the Japanese yen, euro, Taiwanese dollar, Israeli shekel, Chinese yuan or Singapore dollar;
•Level 3 — Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities.
Applied’s methodology for allocating the purchase price relating to purchase acquisitions is determined through established and generally accepted valuation techniques.
Applied has $5.4 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes outstanding.
If Applied reissues treasury stock at an amount below its acquisition cost and additional paid in capital associated with prior treasury stock transactions is insufficient to cover the difference between the acquisition cost and the reissue price, this difference is recorded against retained earnings.
Applied periodically implements new or enhanced enterprise resource planning and related information systems in order to better manage its business operations, align its global organizations and enable future growth.
Applied is exposed to the risks of operating a global business.
The amount recognized due to discontinuance of cash flow hedges that were probable not to occur by the end of the originally specified time period was not significant for the three and six months ended April 28, 2019 and April 29, 2018.
Collectability is assessed based on the customer’s creditworthiness determined by reviewing the customer’s published credit and financial information, historical payment experience, as well as other relevant factors.
As of April 28, 2019, Applied had $470 million in total unrecognized compensation expense, net of estimated forfeitures, related to grants of share-based awards and shares issued under Applied’s ESPP, which will be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.6 years.
Adjustments resulting from impairments and observable prices changes will be recorded in the accompanying Consolidated Condensed Statements of Operations.
In addition, Applied reviews intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate their carrying value may not be recoverable.


item2.txt
If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, Applied would then perform the second step of the impairment test in order to determine the implied fair value of the reporting unit’s goodwill.
These customers may use what they manufacture in their own end products or sell the items to other companies for use in advanced electronic components.
Applied provides manufacturing equipment, services and software to the semiconductor, display, and related industries.
Deferred tax assets are offset by a valuation allowance to the extent it is more likely than not that they are not expected to be realized.
The decrease in net sales to customers in Korea, China and Southeast Asia for the three and six months ended April 28, 2019 compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily reflected a decrease in investments in semiconductor and display manufacturing equipment.
The weighted average cost of capital measures a reporting unit’s cost of debt and equity financing weighted by the percentage of debt and equity in a reporting unit’s target capital structure.
Applied completed the accounting for the Tax Act during the measurement period, which ended one year after the enactment date of the Tax Act.
Semiconductor industry spending on capital equipment is driven by demand for advanced electronic products, including smartphones and other mobile devices, servers, personal computers, automotive devices, storage, and other products, and the nature and timing of technological advances in fabrication processes, and as a result is subject to variable industry conditions.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
There can be no assurance regarding the outcome of current or future legal proceedings, claims or investigations.
Applied is subject to risks associated with environmental and safety regulations.
Applied is exposed to the risks of operating a global business.
The industries that Applied serves can be volatile and difficult to predict.
Applied may also enter into new financing arrangements.


