fls.txt



item1.txt
Applied may be required to record future charges to earnings during the period in which an impairment of goodwill or intangible assets is determined to exist.
The terms of currency instruments used for hedging purposes are generally consistent with the timing of the transactions being hedged.
Management measures the performance of each reportable segment based upon several metrics including net sales and operating income.
Revenue Recognition.
The risks to Applied’s investment portfolio may be exacerbated if financial market conditions deteriorate and, as a result, the value and liquidity of the investment portfolio, as well as returns on pension assets, could be negatively impacted and lead to impairment charges.
Applied is exposed to the risks of operating a global business.
The amount recognized due to discontinuance of cash flow hedges that were probable not to occur by the end of the originally specified time period was not significant for the three and six months ended April 29, 2018 and April 30, 2017.
All of Applied’s derivative financial instruments are recorded at their fair value in other current assets or in accounts payable and accrued expenses.
Revenue Recognition.
Applied assesses the fair value of the assets based on the amount of the undiscounted future cash flow that the assets are expected to generate and recognizes an impairment loss when estimated undiscounted future cash flow expected to result from the use of the asset, plus net proceeds expected from disposition of the asset, if any, are less than the carrying value of the asset.
Applied does not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
In the six months ended April 29, 2018, Applied recognized an excess tax benefit of $53 million in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Operations.
Applied is exposed to risks related to cybersecurity threats and incidents.
There can be no assurance that Applied would have sufficient financial resources or be able to arrange financing to repay any borrowings at such time.
If Applied’s credit rating were to fall below investment grade, it would be in violation of credit risk contingent provisions of the derivative instruments discussed above, and certain counterparties to the derivative instruments could request immediate payment on derivative instruments in net liability positions.


item2.txt
Applied’s ability to borrow under these facilities is subject to bank approval at the time of the borrowing request, and any advances will be at rates indexed to the banks’ prime reference rate denominated in Japanese yen.
Cash provided by operating activities increased from the first half of fiscal 2017 to the first half of fiscal 2018 primarily due to an increase in income taxes payable, partially offset by an increase in accounts receivable and lower net income.
In the ordinary course of business, Applied provides standby letters of credit or other guarantee instruments to third parties as required for certain transactions initiated by either Applied or its subsidiaries.
The market for Semiconductor Systems products and technologies has been characterized by continued investment by semiconductor manufacturers.
The market for Semiconductor Systems products and technologies has been characterized by continued investment by semiconductor manufacturers.
Operating income and operating margin for the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2018 compared to the same periods in the prior year increased due to higher net sales.
This was partially offset by the recognition of a tax benefit of $53 million related to the adoption of authoritative guidance for share-based compensation, the effect of the lower U.S. federal corporate tax rate, and changes in the geographical composition of income.
The effective tax rate for the second quarter was higher compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to $71 million of income tax expense in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 related to adjustments in the transition tax and the remeasurement of U.S. deferred tax assets under the Tax Act.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
The ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees is vital to Applied’s success.
Changing, inconsistent or conflicting laws, rules and regulations, and ambiguities in their interpretation and application create uncertainty and challenges, and compliance with laws, rules and regulations may be onerous and expensive, divert management time and attention from revenue-generating activities, and otherwise adversely impact Applied’s business operations.
There can be no assurance regarding the outcome of current or future legal proceedings, claims or investigations.
Significant judgment is required to determine and estimate worldwide tax liabilities.
Applied may also enter into new financing arrangements.
In the conduct of its business, Applied collects, uses, transmits and stores data on information technology systems, including systems owned and maintained by Applied or third party providers.


