fls.txt



item1.txt
Because our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at the lease commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments.
The new guidance requires the recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities by lessees for those leases classified as operating leases under previous U.S. GAAP.
TruBridge commissions, which are paid up to twelve months in advance of services performed, are capitalized and amortized over the prepayment period.
Stock-based compensation expense is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award, and is recognized as an expense over the employee's or non-employee director's requisite service period.
Shares of restricted stock may also be issued pursuant to the settlement of performance share awards, for which the Company records expenses in the manner described in the "Performance Share Awards" section below.
The amortization is included in amortization of acquisition-related intangibles in our condensed consolidated statements of income.
In general, such alternative payment arrangements do not result in a re-aging of the related receivables.
Certain footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP") have been condensed or omitted.
Goodwill is evaluated for impairment annually on October 1, or more frequently if indicators of impairment are present or changes in circumstances suggest that impairment may exist.
This guidance will be effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those years beginning after December 15, 2019, which is effective for the Company as of the first quarter of our fiscal year ending December 31, 2020.
The new guidance requires the recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities by lessees for those leases classified as operating leases under previous U.S. GAAP.


item2.txt
This increase was partially offset by a decrease in payroll and related costs of 2%, or $0.2 million, as a result of a 3% reduction in headcount compared to the second quarter of 2019.
Net income represented 3% of revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2019, compared to less than 1% of revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2018.
These financing arrangements include short-term payment plans and longer-term lease financing through us or third-party financing companies.
As a percentage of total revenues, total operating expenses remained at 46% in the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018.
All software and services previously provided under the Rycan name now are marketed under TruBridge trademarks.
Sales and Marketing.
On May 3, 2019, the Company closed its acquisition of Get Real Health pursuant to a Stock Purchase Agreement dated April 23, 2019, as amended on May 2, 2019.
Amortization expense associated with acquisition-related intangible assets decreased $0.1 million compared to the second quarter of 2018 due to the retirement of Rycan related trademarks during 2018.
This pressure could further encourage adoption of healthcare IT and increase demand for business management, consulting, and managed IT services, as the future success of these healthcare providers is greatly dependent upon their ability to engage patient populations and to coordinate patient care across a multitude of settings, while optimizing operating efficiency along the way.
Product Development.
The gross margin on these services increased to 47% in the second quarter of 2019 compared to 46% in the second quarter of 2018.
We have experienced an increase in the prevalence of such SaaS arrangements for new system installations and add-on sales to existing clients since 2015, a trend we expect to continue for the foreseeable future.
Get Real Health contributed $0.2 million in TruBridge revenue during the second quarter of 2019.
To finance the closing of the Get Real Health transaction, which occurred on May 3, 2019, the Company used a draw of approximately $11.0 million under its Amended Revolving Credit Facility.
This increase was partially offset by a decrease in payroll and related costs of 2%, or $0.2 million, as a result of a 3% reduction in headcount compared to the second quarter of 2019.
Sales and marketing expenses decreased 5%, or $0.7 million, compared to the first six months of 2018, primarily due to decreased payroll costs of 11%, or $0.7 million, based on decreased headcount.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Even disclosure controls and procedures determined to be effective can only provide reasonable assurance that their objectives are achieved.


part2.txt
Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.


