fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company's unvested restricted stock awards (see Note 9) are considered participating securities under FASB Codification topic, Earnings Per Share, because they entitle holders to non-forfeitable rights to dividends until the awards vest or are forfeited.
The Company's stock-based compensation awards are in the form of restricted stock and performance share awards granted pursuant to the Company's 2012 Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors, Amended and Restated 2014 Incentive Plan and 2019 Incentive Plan (the "Plans").
The number of shares of common stock earned and issuable under each award is determined at the end of a one-year or three-year performance period, as applicable, based on the Company's achievement of performance goals predetermined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors at the time of grant.
Accounting policies for each of the reportable segments are the same as those used on a consolidated basis.
Rather, payments pursuant to any alternative payment arrangements are applied to the already outstanding invoices beginning with the oldest outstanding invoices as the payments are received.
Principal payments with respect to the Amended Term Loan Facility are due on the last day of each fiscal quarter beginning December 31, 2017, with quarterly principal payments of approximately $1.46 million through September 30, 2019, approximately $2.19 million through September 30, 2021 and approximately $2.93 million through September 30, 2022, with maturity on October 13, 2022 or such earlier date as the obligations under the Amended Credit Agreement become due and payable pursuant to the terms of the Amended Credit Agreement (the "Amended Maturity Date").
The number of shares of common stock earned and issuable under each award is determined at the end of a one-year or three-year performance period, as applicable, based on the Company's achievement of performance goals predetermined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors at the time of grant.
From time to time, we are involved in routine litigation that arises in the ordinary course of business.
In determining the amount of net income to allocate to common stockholders, income is allocated to both common stock and participating securities based on their respective weighted average shares outstanding for the period, with net income attributable to common stockholders ultimately equaling net income less net income attributable to participating securities.
The Amended Credit Agreement requires the Company to mandatorily prepay the Amended Credit Facilities with (i) 75% of excess cash flow (minus certain specified other payments) during each of the fiscal years ending December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2018 and (ii) 50% of excess cash flow (minus certain specified other payments) during the fiscal year ending December 31, 2019 and thereafter.
The Company enters into contractual obligations to sell perpetual software licenses, installation, conversion, training, hardware and software application support and hardware maintenance services to acute care and post-acute care community hospitals.


item2.txt
There have been no significant changes to these critical accounting policies during the nine months ended September 30, 2019.
Our clients primarily consist of community hospitals with fewer than 200 acute care beds, with hospitals having fewer than 100 beds comprising approximately 98% of our acute care EHR client base.
 Recurring system sales and support revenues decreased by $3.0 million, or 3%, compared to the first nine months of 2018.
Get Real Health contributed $0.7 million to product development costs during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, which were partially offset by a combined $0.4 million decrease in payroll, stock compensation, and other costs.
From a year-to-date perspective, TruBridge bookings have increased by $0.1 million, or less than 1%.
Product development costs increased 1%, or $0.3 million, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
Most notably, an expanded customer base for our accounts receivable management services resulted in a revenue increase of $1.2 million, or 14%.
See Note 16 to the condensed consolidated financial statements included herein for additional information on our three reportable segments.
This pressure could further encourage adoption of healthcare IT and increase demand for business management, consulting, and managed IT services, as the future success of these healthcare providers is greatly dependent upon their ability to engage patient populations and to coordinate patient care across a multitude of settings, while optimizing operating efficiency along the way.
All software and services previously provided under the Rycan name now are marketed under TruBridge trademarks.
Total costs of sales decreased by 1%, or $0.4 million, compared to the third quarter of 2018.
•Get Real Health, included within our TruBridge segment, delivers technology solutions to improve patient outcomes and engagement strategies with care providers.
Our companies currently support approximately 1,000 acute care facilities and approximately 3,300 post-acute care facilities with a geographically diverse customer mix within the domestic community healthcare market.
Bad debt expense decreased $0.7 million compared to the third quarter of 2018 but was offset by a $0.6 million increase in employee health costs.
Using best practices of the combined companies' implementation processes, we have decreased travel costs for our acute care installations by approximately 25%.


item3.txt



item4.txt
We implemented internal controls to ensure we adequately evaluated our operating and finance leases and properly assessed the impact of the new accounting standard related to lease accounting on our financial statements to facilitate adoption on January 1, 2019.


part2.txt
Item 1.Legal Proceedings.


