fls.txt



item1.txt
A Monte Carlo simulation has been used to account for this market condition in the grant date fair value of the award.
The Company presents basic and diluted earnings per share ("EPS") data for its common stock.
In total, the adoption of ASU 2014-09 resulted in a net increase in retained earnings of $2.0 million as of the date of adoption.
This guidance will be effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those years beginning after December 15, 2018, which will be effective for the Company as of the first quarter of our fiscal year ending December 31, 2019.
TruBridge commissions, which are paid up to twelve months in advance, are now capitalized and amortized over the prepayment period.
Standards Codification ("ASC") 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, and the related amendments ("new revenue standard") during the first quarter of 2018 and have applied it to all contracts using the modified retrospective method, pursuant to which the cumulative effect of initially applying the new revenue standard is recognized as an adjustment to retained earnings and impacted balance sheet line items as of January 1, 2018, the date of adoption.
The balance sheet impact of the prepaid assets was an increase of $3.8 million as of the date of adoption.
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
These reclassification had no effect on previously reported total sales revenues, operating income, income before taxes or net income.
In the event the financial results of the Company fall below the predetermined target, a reduced number of shares may be issued.
Goodwill is evaluated for impairment annually on October 1, or more frequently if indicators of impairment are present or changes in circumstances suggest that impairment may exist.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, to clarify the principles for recognizing revenue and to develop a common revenue standard for U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards.
Revenue is recognized ratably over the life of the software subscriptions as services are provided and at the point-in-time when implementations have been completed.


item2.txt
Absent any such large, enterprise client wins during the first quarter of 2018, TruBridge bookings experienced a normalization that resulted in a decrease from the first quarter of 2017.
As of March 31, 2017, we had a twelve-month backlog of approximately $25 million in connection with non-recurring system purchases and approximately $215 million in connection with recurring payments under support and maintenance and TruBridge services.
As of March 31, 2018, we had $106.8 million in principal amount outstanding under the Amended Term Loan Facility and $36.3 million in principal amount outstanding under the Amended Revolving Credit Facility.
For example, during the first quarter of 2018, we further integrated our acute care product lines into a combined client support group.
In conjunction with our acquisition of HHI in January 2016, we entered into the Previous Credit Agreement which provided for the $125 million Previous Term Loan Facility and the $50 million Previous Revolving Credit Facility.
Additionally, we believe most hospitals recognize that they must invest in healthcare information technology to meet current and future regulatory, compliance and government reimbursement requirements.
We installed acute care EHR solutions at six new hospital clients during the first quarter of 2018 (one under a SaaS arrangement, resulting in revenue being recognized ratably over the contractual term) compared to four new hospital clients during the first quarter of 2017 (one under a SaaS arrangement).
The decrease in cash flows provided from operations is primarily due to a combined $4.2 million decrease in payables and other liabilities as a result of the timing of vendor and payroll payments accompanied by a $1.2 million decrease in the cash impact of deferred revenues during the first quarter of 2018.
Such large, enterprise client wins resulted in TruBridge bookings for the first quarter of 2017 that were the second-highest in TruBridge history at that time, with bookings for the remainder of 2017 being heavily influenced by large, enterprise client wins.
In recent years, there have been significant changes to provider reimbursement by the U.S. federal government, followed by commercial payers and state governments.
Net cash provided by operating activities decreased $6.6 million to $3.1 million provided from operations during the three months ended March 31, 2017, primarily due to a reduction of short-term liabilities and other changes in working capital.
We continue to execute on our TruBridge strategy by moving up-market into larger healthcare facilities while expanding the scope of our relationships with new and existing customers by increasing revenue-generating touchpoints within those facilities.
Total costs of sales increased by 1%, or $0.4 million, from the first quarter of 2017.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 5.Other Information.


part2.txt
Item 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities.
Item 1.Legal Proceedings.


