fls.txt



item1.txt
• Subscriptions to third party content revenue is recognized as a separate performance obligation ratably over the subscription term based on SSP, which is cost plus a reasonable margin.
The Amended Credit Facilities are secured pursuant to a Pledge and Security Agreement, dated January 8, 2016, among the parties identified as obligors therein and Regions, as collateral agent, on a first priority basis by a security interest in substantially all of the tangible and intangible assets (subject to certain exceptions) of the Company and certain subsidiaries of the Company, as guarantors (collectively, the “Subsidiary Guarantors”), including certain registered intellectual property and the capital stock of certain of the Company’s direct and indirect subsidiaries.
Significant judgment is required in determining the expected life of a customer, which is the amortization period for costs to obtain and fulfill a contract that have been capitalized.
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-01, Clarifying the Definition of a Business, to assist an entity in evaluating when a set of transferred assets and activities is a business.
Revenue for support and maintenance services is recognized based on SSP, which is the renewal price, ratably over the life of the contact, which is generally three to five years.
The risks described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K are not the only risks facing our Company.
Payment is generally due upon delivery of the hardware to the client.
Goodwill is evaluated for impairment annually on October 1, or more frequently if indicators of impairment are present or changes in circumstances suggest that impairment may exist.
The recipients of performance share awards do not receive dividends or possess voting rights during the performance period and, accordingly, the fair value of the one-year performance share awards is the quoted market value of CPSI's common stock on the grant date less the present value of the expected dividends not received during the relevant period.
The applicable margin range for base rate loans ranges from 1.00% to 2.50%, in each case based on the Company's consolidated leverage ratio.
Rather, payments pursuant to any alternative payment arrangements are applied to the already outstanding invoices beginning with the oldest outstanding invoices as the payments are received.
We have estimated the fair value of the contingent consideration based on the amount of revenue we expect to be earned by Rycan through the year ending December 31, 2018 in accordance with the purchase agreement between the parties.


item2.txt
In conjunction with our acquisition of HHI in January 2016, we entered into the Previous Credit Agreement which provided for the $125 million Previous Term Loan Facility and the $50 million Previous Revolving Credit Facility.
Second, competitor financing options, primarily through accounts receivables management collections and cloud EHR arrangements, have applied pressure to reduce initial customer capital investment requirements for new EHR installations, leading to the offering of long-term lease options.
Any principal outstanding under the Amended Revolving Credit Facility is due and payable on the Amended Maturity Date.
The dual effect of increased revenues and these beneficial cost improvements resulted in the gross margin on Acute Care EHR system sales and support increasing to 55% in the six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to 54% in the six months ended June 30, 2017.
This decrease in new system implementation revenues was partially offset by a $3.4 million increase in MU3 implementations from $0.2 million in the second quarter 2017 to $3.6 million in the second quarter 2018.
The increase in financing arrangements was primarily due to two reasons.
Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $8.1 million to $7.8 million provided from operations during the six months ended June 30, 2018, primarily due to a reduction of short-term liabilities and other changes in working capital.
As of June 30, 2018, we had $105.4 million in principal amount outstanding under the Amended Term Loan Facility and $34.7 million in principal amount outstanding under the Amended Revolving Credit Facility.
We continue to execute on our TruBridge strategy by moving up-market into larger healthcare facilities while expanding the scope of our relationships with new and existing clients by increasing revenue-generating touchpoints within those facilities.
The Amended Credit Agreement requires the Company to mandatorily prepay the Amended Credit Facilities with (i) 75% of excess cash flow (minus certain specified other payments) during each of the fiscal years ending December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2018 and (ii) 50% of excess cash flow (minus certain specified other payments) during the fiscal year ending December 31, 2019 and thereafter.
Product Development.
Increased payroll was partially offset by an approximate $1.2 million decrease in cloud hosting costs as a result of moving to in-house resources during the fourth quarter of 2017 for cloud services provided to the HHI customer base.
Post-acute Care EHR bookings in the second quarter 2018 decreased $0.1 million, or 6%, compared to the second quarter 2017, and decreased $1.3 million, or 41%, compared to the six months ended June 30, 2017.
The gross margin on Post-acute Care EHR system sales and support increased to 71% for the six months ended June 30, 2018, compared to 67% for the six months ended June 30, 2017.
Net income represented less than 1% of revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2018, compared to 2% of revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2017.


item3.txt



item4.txt
31.2 Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002


part2.txt
None.


