fls.txt



item1.txt
Shares of restricted stock may also be issued pursuant to the settlement of performance share awards, for which the Company records expenses in the manner described in the "Performance Share Awards" section below.
Principal payments with respect to the Amended Term Loan Facility are due on the last day of each fiscal quarter beginning December 31, 2017, with quarterly principal payments of approximately $1.46 million through September 30, 2019, approximately $2.19 million through September 30, 2021 and approximately $2.93 million through September 30, 2022, with maturity on October 13, 2022 or such earlier date as the obligations under the Amended Credit Agreement become due and payable pursuant to the terms of the Amended Credit Agreement (the "Amended Maturity Date").
The excess cash flow mandatory prepayment requirement under the Amended Credit Agreement resulted in a $7.0 million prepayment on the Amended Term Loan Facility during the first quarter of 2019 related to excess cash flow generated by the Company during 2018.
Payment is generally due upon delivery of the hardware to the client.
Any principal outstanding under the Amended Revolving Credit Facility is due and payable on the Amended Maturity Date.
See Note 8 - Stock-based Compensation for more information.
Because our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at the lease commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments.
This office space in Ridgeland, MS will replace existing office space in Jackson, MS and will commence during the third quarter of 2019.
In general, such alternative payment arrangements do not result in a re-aging of the related receivables.
The new guidance requires the recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities by lessees for those leases classified as operating leases under previous U.S. GAAP.
The recipients of performance share awards do not receive dividends or possess voting rights during the performance period and, accordingly, the fair value of the one-year performance share awards is the quoted market value of CPSI's common stock on the grant date less the present value of the expected dividends not received during the relevant period.
See Note 8 - Stock-based Compensation for more information.
Because our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at the lease commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments.


item2.txt
Conversely, modest TruBridge revenue growth during the first quarter 2019 coupled with collections on past financing receivables have greatly abated the related cash flow headwinds.
These increases were partially offset by a decrease in our medical coding services of $0.8 million, or 26%, as a few key customers have decreased their demand for these services.
 Recurring system sales and support revenues decreased by $1.1 million, or 3%, compared to the first quarter 2018.
Although the acquisition is expected to be accretive to Adjusted EBITDA for fiscal year 2019, there can be no assurance that this will be the case.
The excess cash flow mandatory prepayment requirement under the Amended Credit Agreement resulted in a $7.0 million prepayment on the Amended Term Loan Facility during the first quarter 2019 related to excess cash flow generated by the Company during 2018.
These increases were partially offset by a decrease in our medical coding services of $0.8 million, or 26%, as a few key customers have decreased their demand for these services.
Net income for the three months ended March 31, 2019 decreased by $0.5 million to $3.4 million, or $0.24 per basic and diluted share, compared with net income of $4.0 million, or $0.29 per basic and diluted share, for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
Principal payments with respect to the Amended Term Loan Facility are due on the last day of each fiscal quarter beginning December 31, 2017, with quarterly principal payments of approximately $1.46 million through September 30, 2019, approximately $2.19 million through September 30, 2021 and approximately $2.93 million through September 30.
Our obligations under the Amended Credit Agreement are also guaranteed by the Subsidiary Guarantors.
The applicable margin range for base rate loans ranges from 1.0% to 2.5%, in each case based on the Company's consolidated leverage ratio.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, we made a $7.0 million prepayment on the Amended Term Loan Facility in accordance with the excess cash flow mandatory prepayment requirements of the Amended Credit Agreement.
The provision of these recurring revenue services typically requires fewer resources than the initial system installation, resulting in increased overall gross margins and operating margins.
Add-on sales for our Acute Care EHR segment remained relatively flat, as the $2.0 million decrease in MU3-related revenues was offset by a $2.1 million increase in other add-on revenues.
Most notably, we saw a $1.1 million increase in non-recurring and transaction-related costs resulting from recent acquisition activity and other strategic initiatives.


item3.txt
The Amended Term Loan Facility and Amended Revolving Credit Facility bear interest at a rate per annum equal to an applicable margin plus (1) the Adjusted LIBOR rate for the relevant interest period, (2) an alternate base rate determined by reference to the greatest of (a) the prime lending rate of Regions, (b) the federal funds rate for the relevant interest period plus one half of one percent per annum and (c) the one month LIBOR rate plus one percent per annum, or (3) a combination of (1) and (2).


item4.txt
Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective at the reasonable assurance level.


part2.txt
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


