fls.txt



item1.txt
The guidance was effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those years beginning after December 15, 2017, and will be applied prospectively to any transactions occurring following adoption.
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-15, Classifications of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments, which clarifies cash flow classification for eight specific issues, including debt prepayment or extinguishment costs, contingent consideration payments made after a business combination, proceeds from the settlement of insurance claims, and proceeds from the settlement of corporate-owned life insurance policies.
The accounts of HHI include those of its wholly-owned subsidiaries, Healthland Inc. ("Healthland"), Rycan Technologies, Inc. ("Rycan"), and American HealthTech, Inc. ("AHT").
Disclosures regarding remaining performance obligations are not considered material as the overwhelming majority of the Company's remaining performance obligations either (a) are related to contracts with an expected duration of one year or less, or (b) exhibit revenue recognition in the amount to which the Company has the right to invoice.
The excess cash flow mandatory prepayment requirement under the Amended Credit Agreement resulted in a $7.3 million prepayment on the Amended Term Loan Facility during the first quarter of 2018 related to excess cash flow generated by the Company during 2017.
The new guidance will require the recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities by lessees for those leases classified as operating leases under previous U.S. GAAP.
The new guidance will require the recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities by lessees for those leases classified as operating leases under previous U.S. GAAP.
The applicable margin range for LIBOR loans and the letter of credit fee ranges from 2.0% to 3.5%.
The accrued contingent consideration depicted below represents the potential earnout incentive for former Rycan shareholders, relating to the purchase of Rycan by HHI in 2015.
Judgment is required to determine SSP for each distinct performance obligation.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, to clarify the principles for recognizing revenue and to develop a common revenue standard for U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards.


item2.txt
The provision of these services typically requires fewer resources than the initial system installation, resulting in increased overall gross margins.
The relative weakness in non-MU3 related add-on sales is the result of the Company's and clients' emphasis on MU3 certification prior to the October 1, 2019 deadline.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we generated revenues of $208.1 million from the sale of our products and services, compared to $198.9 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2017, an increase of 5% that is primarily attributed to TruBridge client growth.
We believe that we were in compliance with the covenants contained in the Amended Credit Agreement as of September 30, 2018.
Such large, enterprise client wins resulted in TruBridge bookings for the first three quarters of 2017 that were some of the highest in TruBridge history at that time, with bookings for the remainder of 2017 being heavily influenced by large, enterprise client wins.
Total costs of sales increased by 2%, or $2.2 million, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2017.
For example, during the first quarter of 2018, we further integrated our acute care product lines into a combined client support group.
Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $3.5 million to $14.9 million provided from operations during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, primarily due to a reduction of short-term liabilities and other changes in working capital.
The gross margin on Post-acute Care EHR system sales and support increased to 73% in the third quarter 2018, compared to 69% in the third quarter 2017.
The relative weakness in non-MU3 related add-on sales is the result of the Company's and clients' emphasis on MU3 certification prior to the October 1, 2019 deadline.
Second, competitor financing options, primarily through accounts receivables management collections and cloud EHR arrangements, have applied pressure to reduce initial customer capital investment requirements for new EHR installations, leading to the offering of long-term lease options.
Sales and Marketing.
Total revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2018 increased 3%, or $2.2 million, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2017.
Second, competitor financing options, primarily through accounts receivables management collections and cloud EHR arrangements, have applied pressure to reduce initial customer capital investment requirements for new EHR installations, leading to the offering of long-term lease options.
The relative weakness in non-MU3 related add-on sales is the result of the Company's and clients' emphasis on MU3 certification prior to the October 1, 2019 deadline.


item3.txt



item4.txt
32.1 Certifications of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C.


part2.txt
Item 5.Other Information.


