When evaluating Microchip and its business, you should give careful consideration to the factors listed below, in addition to the information provided elsewhere in this Form 10-Q and in other documents that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
•changes in tax regulations and policies in the U.S. and other countries in which we do business including the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the Act); •property damage or other losses, whether or not covered by insurance.
We have acquired, and expect in the future to acquire, additional businesses that we believe will complement or augment our existing businesses.
In addition, in April 2016, we completed our acquisition of Atmel; and in August 2015, we completed our acquisition of Micrel.
We may not be able to maintain uniform standards, procedures and policies and we may be unable to realize the expected synergies and cost savings from the integration.
We may have difficulty in developing, manufacturing and marketing the products of a newly acquired company, or in growing the business at the rate we anticipate.We provide highly cost-effective embedded control solutions that also offer the advantages of small size, high performance, extreme low power usage, wide voltage range operation, mixed signal integration and ease of development, thus enabling timely and cost-effective integration of our solutions by our customers in their end products.
The ownership of a substantial portion of our manufacturing resources is an important component of our business strategy, enabling us to maintain a high level of manufacturing control resulting in us being one of the lowest cost producers in the embedded control industry.
We paid an aggregate of approximately $8.19 billion in cash to the stockholders of Microsemi.
The total consideration transferred in the acquisition, including approximately $53.9 million of non-cash consideration for the exchange of certain share-based payment awards of Microsemi for stock awards of Microchip, was approximately $8.24 billion.
In addition to the consideration transferred, we recognized in our consolidated financial statements $3.15 billion in liabilities of Microsemi consisting of debt, taxes payable and deferred, pension obligations, restructuring, and contingent and other liabilities of which $2.06 billion of existing debt was paid off.
We financed the purchase price using approximately $8.10 billion of borrowings consisting of $3.10 billion under our amended and restated revolving line of credit (the "Credit Facility"), $3.00 billion under the term loan feature of the Credit Facility ("Term Loan Facility"), and $2.00 billion in newly issued senior secured notes.•changes in tax regulations and policies in the U.S. and other countries in which we do business including the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the Act); •property damage or other losses, whether or not covered by insurance.
We have acquired, and expect in the future to acquire, additional businesses that we believe will complement or augment our existing businesses.
In addition, in April 2016, we completed our acquisition of Atmel; and in August 2015, we completed our acquisition of Micrel.
We may not be able to maintain uniform standards, procedures and policies and we may be unable to realize the expected synergies and cost savings from the integration.
We may have difficulty in developing, manufacturing and marketing the products of a newly acquired company, or in growing the business at the rate we anticipate.
We may suffer loss of key employees, customers and strategic partners of acquired companies and it may be difficult to implement our corporate culture at acquired companies.