We completed two significant divestitures during fiscal 2017, the divestiture of our government IT services business (“IT Services”) and the divestiture of our Harris CapRock Communications commercial business (“CapRock”), which are described in more detail below. These divestitures individually and collectively represented a strategic shift away from non-core markets (for example, energy, maritime and government IT services). The decision to divest these businesses was part of our strategy to simplify our operating model to focus on technology-differentiated, high-margin businesses, and had a major effect on our operations and financial results.
During the quarter ended March 30, 2018, we recorded $45 million of charges in connection with our decision to transition and exit a commercial line of business that had been developing an air-to-ground radio access network for the business aviation market based on the Long Term Evolution (“LTE”) standard operating in the unlicensed spectrum. These charges are included as a component of “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited). We had a liability of $21 million at March 30, 2018 associated with this exit activity which we expect will be paid within the next twelve months. 
We face the risk, as does any company, of a security breach, whether through cyber attack or cyber intrusion over the Internet, malware, computer viruses, attachments to e-mails, persons inside our organization or with access to systems inside our organization, or other significant disruption of our IT networks and related systems or those of our suppliers or subcontractors. We face an added risk of a security breach or other significant disruption of the IT networks and related systems that we develop, install, operate and maintain for certain of our customers, which may involve managing and protecting information relating to national security and other sensitive government functions or personally identifiable or protected health information. The risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber attack or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, is persistent and substantial as the volume, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world remain elevated and unlikely to diminish. As an advanced technology-based solutions provider, and particularly as a government contractor, we face a heightened risk of a security breach or disruption from threats to gain unauthorized access to our and our customers’ proprietary or classified information on our IT networks and related systems and to the IT networks and related systems that we operate and maintain for certain of our customers. These types of information and IT networks and related systems are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to perform day-to-day operations, and, in some cases, are critical to the operations of certain of our customers. We make significant efforts to maintain the security and integrity of these types of information and IT networks and related systems and have implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security breach or disruption. Our efforts and measures have not been entirely effective in the case of every cyber security incident, but no incident has had a material negative impact on us to date. Even the most well protected information, networks, systems and facilities remain potentially vulnerable because attempted security breaches, particularly cyber attacks and intrusions, or disruptions will occur in the future, and because the techniques used in such attempts are constantly evolving and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are designed not to be detected and, in fact, may not be detected. In some cases, the resources of foreign governments may be behind such attacks due to the nature of our business 
On April 28, 2017, we completed the divestiture to an affiliate of Veritas Capital Fund Management, L.L.C. (“Veritas”) of IT Services, which primarily provided IT and engineering managed services to U.S. Government customers, for net cash proceeds of $646 million, and recognized a pre-tax loss of $28 million (a gain of $55 million after certain tax benefits related to the transaction or $.44 per diluted share) on the sale after transaction expenses. The decision to divest IT Services was part of our strategy to simplify our operating model to focus on technology-differentiated, high-margin businesses. IT Services was part of our former Critical Networks segment and in connection with the definitive agreement to sell IT Services, as described above, the remaining operations that had been part of the Critical Networks segment, including our air traffic management (“ATM”) business, primarily serving the Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”), were integrated with our Electronic Systems segment effective for the third quarter of fiscal 2017, and our Critical Networks segment was eliminated. We agreed to provide various transition services to Veritas for a period of up to 18 months following the closing of the transaction pursuant to a separate agreement. 
We have reviewed the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheet of Harris Corporation as of March 30, 2018, and the related unaudited condensed consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income for the quarter and three quarters ended March 30, 2018 and March 31, 2017, and the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of cash flows for the three quarters ended March 30, 2018 and March 31, 2017. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management.
In fiscal 2017, we recorded $58 million of charges for integration and other costs in connection with our acquisition of Exelis Inc. (collectively with its subsidiaries, “Exelis”), substantially all of which were included as a component of the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Consolidated Statement of Income in our Fiscal 2017 Form 10-K. We had liabilities of $26 million at March 30, 2018 and $43 million at June 30, 2017 associated with this integration activity and with previous restructuring actions. The majority of the remaining liabilities as of March 30, 2018 will be paid within the next twelve months. 
Our effective tax rate was 24.6 percent in the three quarters ended March 30, 2018 compared with 29.7 percent in the three quarters ended March 31, 2017. In addition to the impact of the Tax Act described above, our effective tax rate for the three quarters ended March 30, 2018 benefited from a $22 million ($.18 per diluted share) favorable impact of releasing provisions for uncertain tax positions, the favorable impact of differences in GAAP and tax accounting related to investments and the favorable impact of excess tax benefits related to equity-based compensation. In the three quarters ended March 31, 2017, our effective tax rate was impacted by the discrete items noted above favorably impacting the quarter ended March 31, 2017. 
Potential dilutive common shares primarily consist of employee stock options and restricted and performance unit awards. Income from continuing operations per diluted common share excludes the antidilutive impact of 30,670 and 64,554 weighted average share-based awards outstanding in the quarter and three quarters ended March 30, 2018, respectively, and 562,010 in the three quarters ended March 31, 2017.The increase in segment gross margin in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to the increase in revenue. Segment gross margin percentage in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was comparable with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 as the impact of a less favorable mix of program and product sales was offset by productivity savings. The increase in segment ESA expenses and segment ESA percentage in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to higher employment and distribution costs. 
Segment gross margin percentage for the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 decreased slightly compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2017 primarily due to a less favorable mix of program revenue and product sales, mostly offset by productivity savings. The slight decrease in segment ESA percentage in the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to cost containment. 
The increases in segment gross margin and gross margin percentage in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 were primarily due to higher revenue, incremental pension income and a more favorable mix of program revenue. Segment ESA expenses and ESA percentage were comparable in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 with the third quarter of fiscal 2017.
The decreases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment for the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017. 
The increases in segment operating income and segment operating margin percentage in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment. 
The decreases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment. 
The increases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.
business in the quarter ended March 30, 2018, and a $12 million non-cash charge from an adjustment for deferred compensation in the quarter ended December 29, 2017, partially offset by the absence in the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 of any Exelis acquisition-related charges, which totaled $38 million in the first three quarters of fiscal 2017.
Given our current cash position, outlook for funds generated from operations, credit ratings, available credit facility, cash needs and debt structure, we have not experienced to date, and do not expect to experience, any material issues with liquidity, although we can give no assurances concerning our future liquidity, particularly in light of our overall level of debt, U.S. Government budget uncertainties and the state of global commerce and financial uncertainty.Item 1. Legal Proceedings.
During the third quarter of fiscal 2018, we did not issue or sell any unregistered equity securities.