ITEM 2: MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Forward-Looking Statements

Certain statements made in this report, as well as oral statements made by the Company from time to time, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Readers can identify these forward-looking statements by our use of the words “expects,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” “believes,” “projects,” “intends,” “plans,” “will,” “may,” “shall,” “could,” “should,” and similar words and other statements of a similar sense.
These statements are based upon our current estimates and expectations as to prospective events and circumstances, which may or may not be in our control and as to which there can be no firm assurances given.
These forward-looking statements, which include statements regarding business and market trends, future financial performance, customer order rates and timing of related revenue, expected areas of growth, emerging markets, future product mix, research and development activities, investments, and strategic plans, involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.
Such risks and uncertainties include: (1) the loss of a large customer; (2) current and future conditions in the global economy; (3) the reliance on revenue from the consumer electronics or automotive industries; (4) the inability to penetrate new markets; (5) the inability to achieve significant international revenue; (6) fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and the use of derivative instruments; (7) information security breaches or business system disruptions; (8) the inability to attract and retain skilled employees; (9) the failure to effectively manage our growth; (10) the reliance upon key suppliers to manufacture and deliver critical components for our products; (11) the failure to effectively manage product transitions or accurately forecast customer demand; (12) the inability to design and manufacture high-quality products; (13) the technological obsolescence of current products and the inability to develop new products; (14) the failure to properly manage the distribution of products and services; (15) the inability to protect our proprietary technology and intellectual property; (16) our involvement in time-consuming and costly litigation; (17) the impact of competitive pressures; (18) the challenges in integrating and achieving expected results from acquired businesses; (19) potential impairment charges with respect to our investments or for acquired intangible assets or goodwill; and (20) exposure to additional tax liabilities.
The foregoing list should not be construed as exhaustive and we encourage readers to refer to the detailed discussion of risk factors included in Part I - Item 1A of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017.
The Company cautions readers not to place undue reliance upon any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made.
The Company disclaims any obligation to subsequently revise forward-looking statements to reflect the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events or circumstances after the date such statements are made.
Executive Overview

Cognex Corporation is a leading worldwide provider of machine vision products that capture and analyze visual information in order to automate tasks, primarily in manufacturing processes, where vision is required.
In addition to product revenue derived from the sale of machine vision products, the Company also generates revenue by providing maintenance and support, consulting, and training services to its customers; however, service revenue accounted for less than 10% of total revenue for all periods presented.
The Company’s customers are predominantly in the factory automation market.
Factory automation customers purchase Cognex products and incorporate them into their manufacturing processes.
Customers in the consumer electronics and automotive industries contribute the largest percentage to the Company's factory automation revenue.
Most manufacturers can achieve better quality and manufacturing efficiency by using machine vision, and therefore, this market also includes a broad base of customers across a variety of other industries, including consumer products, food and beverage, medical devices, and pharmaceuticals.
Factory automation customers also purchase Cognex products for use outside of the manufacturing process, such as using ID products in logistics automation for package sorting and distribution.
A small percentage of the Company’s customers are in the semiconductor and electronics capital equipment market.
These customers purchase Cognex products and integrate them into the automation equipment that they manufacture and then sell to their customers to either make semiconductor chips or assemble printed circuit boards.
On January 1, 2018, the Company adopted Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 606, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers," using the full retrospective method to present all periods reported on a consistent basis.
Accordingly, prior period revenue, cost of revenue, and gross profit have been restated to apply the provisions of this ASC.
Revenue for the first quarter of 2018 totaled $169,567,000, representing an increase of 22% from the first quarter of 2017 driven primarily by strong sales in the logistics and automotive industries.
A shift in revenue mix toward service-


related revenue resulted in a slight decline in the gross margin percentage to 76% of revenue in the first quarter of 2018 compared to 77% of revenue in the first quarter of 2017.
Operating expenses increased by 37% over the prior year due principally to the impact of headcount additions to support the higher revenue level and future growth plans.
The operating income margin was 20% of revenue in the first quarter of 2018 compared to 27% of revenue in the first quarter of 2017.
A lower tax benefit related to stock option exercises than the prior year resulted in a net income margin of 22% of revenue in the first quarter of 2018 compared to 33% of revenue in the first quarter of 2017.
Net income per diluted share was $0.21 in the first quarter of 2018 compared to $0.25 in the first quarter of 2017.
Results of Operations

As foreign currency exchange rates are a factor in understanding period-to-period comparisons, we believe the presentation of results on a constant-currency basis in addition to reported results helps improve investors’ ability to understand our operating results and evaluate our performance in comparison to prior periods.
We also use results on a constant-currency basis as one measure to evaluate our performance.
Constant-currency information compares results between periods as if exchange rates had remained constant period-over-period.
We generally refer to such amounts calculated on a constant-currency basis as excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes.
Results on a constant-currency basis are not in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP) and should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, results prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.
Revenue

Revenue for the first quarter of 2018 totaled $169,567,000, representing an increase of $30,528,000, or 22%, from the first quarter of 2017.
Changes in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily related to the translation of Euro-denominated revenue to U.S.
Dollars, accounted for approximately 5% of the revenue increase.
The remaining constant-currency increase of 17% was driven by higher sales in the logistics and automotive industries, partially offset by lower sales in the consumer electronics industry.
As of the date of this report, we expect revenue for the second quarter of 2018 to increase sequentially from the first quarter of 2018.
Although we expect this growth to come from a variety of industries, the most notable increase is expected to come from the consumer electronics industry due to the quarterly timing of revenue from large customer orders in this industry, which in turn is dependent upon the product introduction cycles of these customers.
Despite the level of quarterly revenue currently anticipated from customers in the consumer electronics industry in the second quarter of 2018, we expect consumer electronics revenue to be lower for the full year 2018 as compared to 2017.
Gross Margin

Gross margin as a percentage of revenue was 76% for the first quarter of 2018 compared to 77% for the first quarter of 2017.
Although a higher volume of products sold resulted in manufacturing efficiencies, this favorable impact was offset by a greater percentage of service-related revenue, including revenue in the logistics industry where certain customer solutions included installation services with relatively lower margins.
In addition, logistics revenue for the first quarter of 2018 included large customer orders that received volume discounts.
The Company's gross margin percentage has ranged from the mid-to-high 70s for the past several years.
As of the date of this report, we expect the gross margin percentage to be closer to the mid-point of this range in the second quarter of 2018 due to anticipated higher revenue from a material customer under a preferred pricing arrangement.
Operating Expenses

Research, Development, and Engineering Expenses increased by $8,306,000, or 36%, for the three-month period as detailed in the table below (in thousands).
Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses




Non-operating Income (Expense)

The Company recorded foreign currency losses of $134,000 and $263,000 for the first quarters of 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Foreign currency gains and losses result primarily from the revaluation and settlement of accounts receivable, accounts payable, and intercompany balances that are reported in one currency and collected in another.
Investment income increased by $1,228,000, or 61%, from the first quarter of 2017.
The increase was due to higher yields on the Company's portfolio of debt securities, as well as additional funds available for investment.
The Company recorded other income of $277,000 and $270,000 for the first quarters of 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Other income (expense) includes fair value adjustments of contingent consideration liabilities arising from business acquisitions, as well as rental income, net of associated expenses, from leasing space in buildings adjacent to the Company’s corporate headquarters.
Income Tax Expense

The Company’s effective tax rate was an expense of 2% of pre-tax income for the first quarter of 2018 and a benefit of 16% of pre-tax income for the first quarter of 2017.
The effective tax rate included a decrease in tax expense of $4,935,000 in the first quarter of 2018 and $13,167,000 in the first quarter of 2017 from the excess tax benefit arising from the difference between the deduction for tax purposes and the compensation cost recognized for financial reporting purposes from stock option exercises.
The Company cannot predict the level of stock option exercises by employees in future periods.
Excluding the impact of these discrete tax events, the Company’s effective tax rate was approximately 15% for the first quarter of 2018 and 18% for the first quarter of 2017.
This decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the impact of the Tax Cuts and Job Act of 2017 (the "Tax Act") that was signed into law on December 22, 2017.
This Tax Act included a decrease in the U.S. federal statutory corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%.
The majority of income earned outside of the United States is indefinitely reinvested to provide funds for international expansion.
The Company is tax resident in numerous jurisdictions around the world and has identified its major tax jurisdictions as the United States, Ireland, and China.
The statutory tax rate is 12.5% in Ireland and 25% in China.
International rights to certain of the Company’s intellectual property are held by a subsidiary whose legal jurisdiction does not tax this income, resulting in a foreign effective tax rate lower than the above mentioned statutory rates.
The Company has not yet determined how the Tax Act will impact its financial statement assertion related to indefinite reinvestment in future years.
Liquidity and Capital Resources

The Company has historically been able to generate positive cash flow from operations, which has funded its operating activities and other cash requirements and has resulted in an accumulated cash and investment balance of $803,382,000 as of April 1, 2018.
The Company has established guidelines relative to credit ratings, diversification, and maturities of its investments that maintain liquidity.
The Company’s cash requirements during the first quarter of 2018 were met with positive cash flows from operations, investment maturities, and the proceeds from stock option exercises.
Cash requirements consisted of operating activities, investment purchases, the repurchase of common stock, the payment of dividends, and capital expenditures.
Operating cash inflows included the collection of a significant amount of accounts receivable from a material customer in the consumer electronics industry.
Operating cash outflows included the purchase of inventory for large customer orders already received or anticipated to be received that are expected to ship and generate revenue later in 2018, as well as the payment of company bonuses that were earned and accrued in 2017.
Capital expenditures in the first quarter of 2018 totaled $13,270,000 and consisted primarily of computer hardware and software, manufacturing test equipment related to new product introductions, and improvements made to the Company's headquarters building in Natick, Massachusetts and distribution center in Cork, Ireland.
Cumulative capital expenditures since the second quarter of 2017 related to application development activities for a new Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system totaled approximately $8,000,000 as of April 1, 2018.
The Company expects to incur an additional $2,000,000 in capital expenditures related to the ERP system in the second quarter of 2018, resulting in a $10,000,000 capital asset that the Company expects to be placed into service at the beginning of the third quarter of 2018 and depreciate over a ten year estimated useful life.
In April 2017, the Company's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of $100,000,000 of the Company's common stock.
As of April 1, 2018, the Company repurchased 1,744,000 shares at a cost of $100,000,000 under this program, including 803,000 shares at a cost of $45,200,000 in the first quarter of 2018.
Stock repurchases under this April 2017 program are now complete.
In February, 2018, the Company's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of an additional $150,000,000 of the Company's common stock.
As of April 1, 2018, the Company repurchased 453,000 shares at a cost of $24,002,000 under this program, leaving a remaining authorized balance of $125,998,000.
Total stock repurchases in the first quarter of 2018 amounted to $69,202,000.
The Company may repurchase shares under this program in future periods depending on a variety of factors, including, among other things, the impact of dilution from employee stock options, stock price, share availability, and cash requirements.
The Company’s Board of Directors declared and paid a cash dividend of $0.045 per share in the first quarter of 2018, amounting to $7,787,000.
Future dividends will be declared at the discretion of the Company’s Board of Directors and will depend upon such factors as the Board deems relevant including, among other things, the Company’s ability to generate positive cash flows from operations.
The Company’s business strategy includes selective expansion into new machine vision markets and applications through the acquisition of businesses and technologies.
The Company has completed seven business acquisitions since August 2015, none of which are significant individually or in the aggregate to the Company's financial positions or operating results.
Certain of these acquisitions have contractual obligations for deferred cash payments, contingent cash payments tied to performance, and special incentive cash payments tied to employment, none of which are material individually or in the aggregate to the Company's cash flows.
The Company believes that its existing cash and investment balances, together with cash flow from operations, will be sufficient to meet its operating, investing, and financing activities for the next twelve months.
As of April 1, 2018, the Company had $803,382,000 in cash and investments.
In addition, Cognex has no long-term debt and does not 


anticipate needing debt financing in the near future.
We believe that our strong cash position has put us in a relatively good position with respect to our longer-term liquidity needs.
New Pronouncements

Refer to Part I - Note 2 within this Form 10-Q, for a full description of recently issued accounting pronouncements including the expected dates of adoption and the expected impact on the financial position and results of operations of the Company.
