ITEM 4: CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

As required by Rules 13a-15 and 15d-15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has evaluated, with the participation of management, including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, the effectiveness of its disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in such rules) as of the end of the period covered by this report.
Based on such evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that such disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of that date.
From time to time, the Company reviews its disclosure controls and procedures, and may from time to time make changes aimed at enhancing their effectiveness and to ensure that the Company’s systems evolve with its business.
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

During the third quarter of 2018, the Company implemented a new Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system.
As a result of this implementation, the Company modified certain existing internal controls as well as implemented new controls and procedures related to the new ERP system.
The Company will continue to evaluate the design and operating effectiveness of its internal controls during subsequent periods.
Other than the ERP implementation, there have been no significant changes in the Company's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended September 30, 2018 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

Various claims and legal proceedings generally incidental to the normal course of business are pending or threatened on behalf of or against the Company.
While we cannot predict the outcome of these matters, we believe that any liability arising from them will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity, or results of operations.
RISK FACTORS

For a list of factors that could affect the Company’s business, results of operations, and financial condition, see the risk factors discussion provided in Part I—Item 1A of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017.
UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS




In October 2018, the Company's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of an additional $200,000,000 of the Company's common stock.
This new authorization will commence once the Company completes the February 2018 program, with repurchases subject to market conditions and other relevant factors.
EXHIBITS



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
