fls.txt
fluctuations in margins; (ix.)


item1.txt
At contract inception, we evaluate for material distinct goods and services using professional judgment.
This provisional estimate was included in our condensed consolidated financial statements as of July 28, 2018 and April 28, 2018.
Our Transportation business unit primarily consists of sales of intelligent transportation systems dynamic messaging signs for road management, mass transit, and aviation applications and other electronic signage for advertising and way-finding needs, which includes our Vanguard® and Galaxy® product lines and other intelligent transportation systems dynamic message signs, to governmental transportation departments, transportation industry contractors, airlines and other transportation related customers.
AJT Systems, Inc. Acquisition
was measured based on valuations observed in less active markets than Level 1 investments.
In the three months ended July 28, 2018 and July 29, 2017, the reclassifications from accumulated other comprehensive loss to net earnings were immaterial.
Contract assets represent revenue recognized in excess of amounts billed and include unbilled receivables.
These reclassifications had no effect on reported net income, comprehensive income, cash flows, total assets or total liabilities.
Assets shared or not directly attributed to a reportable segment's activities are allocated to the reportable segment based on sales and other measures.
Contract and lease receivables bearing annual interest rates of 4.8 to 9.0 percent are due in varying annual installments through 2024.
Fair values for fixed-rate long-term marketing obligations are estimated using a discounted cash flow calculation applying interest rates currently being offered for debt with similar terms and underlying collateral.
Subsequently, the FASB also issued ASUs 2016-08, 2016-10, 2016-12, and 2016-20 to give further guidance to revenue recognition matters.
We disclosed a warranty issue in Note 18 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 28, 2018 regarding a mechanical device failure within a module for displays.
The present value of long-term contracts and lease receivables, including accrued interest and current maturities, was $2,987 and $3,393 as of July 28, 2018 and April 28, 2018, respectively.


item2.txt
These qualities are important for our long-term success because our products have finite lifetimes, and we strive to win replacement business from existing customers.
We plan to make continued investments in our software and controller capabilities throughout our various product offerings.
We organize around customer segments and geographic regions as further described in "Note 5.
On November 15, 2016, we entered into an amended and restated loan agreement and a continuing and unlimited guaranty agreement with another U.S. bank which supports our credit needs outside of the United States.
Through all design efforts, we focus on standardizing display components and control systems for both single site and network displays.
Standard display products are used to attract or communicate with customers and potential customers of retail, commercial, and other establishments.
With this positive demand, strong competition exists across all of our business units, which causes margin constraints.
As a result, each year we must sell more product to generate the same or greater level of net sales as in previous fiscal years.
The four domestic business units consist of Commercial, Live Events, High School Park and Recreation, and Transportation, all of which include the geographic territories of the United States and Canada.
Our success is contingent on the depth and quality of our products, including related control systems, the depth of our service offerings and our technology serving these market demands.
The four domestic business units consist of Commercial, Live Events, High School Park and Recreation, and Transportation, all of which include the geographic territories of the United States and Canada.


item3.txt
For the three months ended July 28, 2018, 21.1 percent of net sales were derived in currencies other than U.S. dollars.
If we believe currency risk in any foreign location or specific sales or purchase transaction is significant, we utilize foreign exchange hedging contracts to manage our exposure to the currency fluctuations.


item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 4.


