fls.txt
The statements contained in this Report that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21B of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including statements regarding our expectations, beliefs, intentions and strategies for the future.


item1.txt
We are currently evaluating the effect that adopting ASU 2016-13 will have on our condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
We generally retain a security interest in the equipment or in the cash flow generated by the equipment until the contract is paid.
Revenue Recognition" for more information.
As of January 26, 2019, undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries were considered to have been reinvested indefinitely.
We are currently evaluating the effect that adopting ASU 2016-13 will have on our condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
Level 3 - Unobservable inputs supported by little or no market activity based on our own assumptions used to measure assets and liabilities.
Billing schedules include down payments and progress billings over time, set milestone payments specific to the project, are scheduled for performance-based payments, or are set time-based payment(s).
We are still reviewing the new standard and recent updates published by FASB.
Precontract costs directly associated with anticipated contracts expected to be recoverable include $478 and $217 as of January 26, 2019 and April 28, 2018, respectively.
In the nine months ended January 26, 2019 and January 27, 2018, the reclassifications from accumulated other comprehensive loss to net earnings were immaterial.
The amendment requires an entity to perform its annual or interim goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount.
Segment Reporting" for a disaggregation of revenue by geography.
Revenue for uniquely configured (custom) or integrated systems is recognized over time using the cost incurred input method.
We are still reviewing the new standard and recent updates published by FASB.


item2.txt
fluctuations in margins; (ix.)
As of January 26, 2019, there were no advances outstanding under the loan agreement and approximately $3.6 million in bank guarantees under this line of credit.
•Dynamic messaging systems demand growth due to market adoption and marketplace expansion.
During the third quarter of fiscal 2019, we were awarded two projects each valued at over $4 million, with no similar sized projects in the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
Gross profit is net sales less cost of sales.
Gross profit is net sales less cost of sales.
During the first nine months of fiscal 2018, we were awarded three projects each valued at over $5 million as compared to one project valued at over $5 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2019.
We have recorded a tax rate of (71.8) percent for the nine months ended January 26, 2019 as compared to an effective tax rate of 47.2 percent for the nine months ended January 27, 2018.
Through all design efforts, we focus on standardizing display components and control systems for both single site and network displays.
construction-type contracts, costs to be incurred for product warranties and extended maintenance contracts, bad debts, excess and obsolete inventory, income taxes, share-based compensation, goodwill impairment and contingencies.
Gross profit is net sales less cost of sales.
the timing and magnitude of future contracts; (vii.)


item3.txt



item4.txt
0-23246 unless otherwise indicated.


part2.txt
Item 1A.


