fls.txt
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," and those factors discussed in detail in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


item1.txt
This new standard defines a comprehensive revenue recognition model, requiring a company to recognize revenue from the transfer of goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that the entity expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services.
The adoption of ASU 2016-16 did not have an impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
We disclosed a warranty issue in Note 18 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 28, 2018 regarding a mechanical device failure within a module for displays.
We utilize derivative financial instruments to manage the economic impact of fluctuations in currency exchange rates on those transactions denominated in currencies other than our functional currency, which is the U.S. dollar.
Indirect costs include allocated charges for such items as facilities and equipment depreciation and general overhead.
Where quoted market prices are not available, we use the market price of similar types of securities traded in the market to estimate fair value.
Our subcontractor has full insurance for such matters, we have claims to a performance bond as additional collateral, and we carry insurance to cover such matters.
AJT is a developer of real-time live to air graphics rendering and video server systems for the broadcast TV industry.
As of October 27, 2018, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations was $201,955.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP") requires management to make estimates and assumptions affecting the reported amounts therein.
We classify our investments in marketable securities as available-for-sale in accordance with the provisions of ASC 320, Investments – Debt and Equity Securities.
Contract liabilities represent amounts billed to the clients in excess of revenue recognized to date.
The total carrying value of long-term marketing obligations as reported on our condensed consolidated balance sheets within other long-term obligations approximates fair value and has been categorized as a Level 2 fair value measurement.
ASC 820, Fair Value Measurement, defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.


item2.txt
At October 27, 2018, we had $5.2 million of bonded work outstanding against this line.
As of October 27, 2018, there were no advances to us under the loan portion of the line of credit, and the balance of letters of credit outstanding was approximately $10.6 million.
We focus our sales and marketing efforts on markets, geographical regions and products.
General and administrative expenses in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased as compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to a decrease in professional fees.
Through all design efforts, we focus on standardizing display components and control systems for both single site and network displays.
During the six months ended October 27, 2018, we did not repurchase any shares of our common stock.
These qualities are important for our long-term success because our products have finite lifetimes, and we strive to win replacement business from existing customers.
in backlog when we are in receipt of an executed contract and any required deposits or security.
This is dependent on there being no adverse changes in the digital billboard regulatory environment restricting future deployments of billboards, as well as maintaining our current market share of the business concentrated in a few large OOH companies.
Product design and development investments in the near term are focused on developing or improving our video technology over a wide range of pixel pitches for both indoor and outdoor applications.
Basis of Presentation" of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report.
Pricing and economic conditions are the principal factors that impact our success in this business unit.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Certain of the following exhibits are incorporated by reference from prior filings.


