fls.txt
the timing and magnitude of future contracts; (vii.)


item1.txt
Our total variable lease costs are immaterial.
As of April 28, 2019, we recognized a right of use asset for operating leases of $11,101 and a current and non-current lease liability for operating leases of $2,745 and $8,356, respectively.
We have a cash management program which provides for the investment of cash balances not used in current operations.
As of April 28, 2019, we recognized a right of use asset for operating leases of $11,101 and a current and non-current lease liability for operating leases of $2,745 and $8,356, respectively.
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception.
The fiscal year ended April 27, 2019 consisted of 52 weeks.
In some contracts with customers, we agree to installment payments exceeding 12 months.
We follow the provisions of ASC 260, Earnings Per Share, where basic EPS is computed by dividing income attributable to common shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period.
Right-of-use assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term, and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
During the six months ended November 2, 2019, we recognized revenue of $39,352 related to our contract liabilities as of April 27, 2019.
We utilize the income approach based on discounted projected cash flows to estimate the fair value of each unit.
We have evaluated our relationships with our affiliates and have determined that these entities are not variable interest entities.


item2.txt
During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019, we violated one of our bank covenants, but we received a waiver from our banking institution for the year ended April 27, 2019.
Orders decreased for the three months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was due to the variability of timing caused by large projects.
the timing and magnitude of future contracts; (vii.)
The gross profit percent increased in the Transportation business unit primarily due to higher sales volumes over relatively fixed infrastructure costs, which was partially offset by an increase in warranty expense.
We often receive down payments or progress payments on these orders.
Orders decreased for the three months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was due to the variability of timing caused by large projects.
We describe our significant accounting policies in "Note 1.
We plan to make continued investments in our software and controller capabilities throughout our various product offerings.
We had an increase in orders placed during the first six months ended November 2, 2019 related to new releases of our product offerings.
The four domestic business units consist of Commercial, Live Events, High School Park and Recreation, and Transportation, all of which include the geographic territories of the United States and Canada.
We are sometimes required to obtain bank guarantees or other financial instruments for display installations and we have a global banking relationship to provide such instruments.
the timing and magnitude of any acquisitions or dispositions.
Our five business segments consist of four domestic business units and the International business unit.
We describe our significant accounting policies in "Note 1.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 6.


part2.txt
Item 4.


