fls.txt
Risk Factors” and "Item 7.


item1.txt
On March 1, 2018, our Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.07 per share on our common stock payable on March 22, 2018 to holders of record of our common stock on March 12, 2018.
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740) Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other than Inventory, which is intended to improve the accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
The fair value hierarchy within ASC 820 distinguishes between the following three levels of inputs which may be utilized when measuring fair value.
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740) Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other than Inventory, which is intended to improve the accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP") requires management to make estimates and assumptions affecting the reported amounts therein.
We enter into currency forward contracts to manage these economic risks.
Where quoted market prices are not available, we use the market price of similar types of securities traded in the market to estimate fair value.
There have been no transfers of assets or liabilities among the fair value hierarchies presented.
Contract and lease receivables bearing annual interest rates of 4.8 to 10.0 percent are due in varying annual installments through August 2024.
We enter into currency forward contracts to manage these economic risks.
Included in accounts receivable as of January 27, 2018 and April 29, 2017 was $2,044 and $1,857, respectively, of retainage on construction-type contracts, all of which is expected to be collected within one year.
We have accounted for the impacts of the Tax Act to the extent a reasonable estimate could be made during the quarter ended January 27, 2018.


item2.txt
We utilize a reseller network to distribute our standard products.
In fiscal 2019, we expect an effective tax rate of approximately 21%, exclusive of any SAB 118 changes in estimate.
Segment Disclosure" of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report.
•Lower product costs, driving an expansion of the marketplace.
•Increased demand for different types of displays and dynamic messaging systems, such as message centers at schools to communicate to students, parents and the broader community.
Large project orders can include several displays, controllers, and subcontracted structure builds, each of which can occur on varied schedules per the customer's needs.
Segment Disclosure" of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report.
Large project orders can include several displays, controllers, and subcontracted structure builds, each of which can occur on varied schedules per the customer's needs.
•The competitive nature of sports teams, which strive to out-perform their competitors with display systems.
•A ratio of interest-bearing debt, excluding any marketing obligations, to EBITDA of less than 1 to 1 at the end of any fiscal quarter.
Segment Disclosure" of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report.
General and administrative expenses in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 decreased as compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to decreases in personnel expenses.


item3.txt
The aggregate amounts due from customers include an imputed interest element.
Through January 27, 2018, most of our net sales were denominated in U.S. dollars, and our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate changes on net sales had not been significant.


item4.txt
Item 6.


part2.txt
Item 1A.


