fls.txt
our ability to manage the impact that new or adjusted tariffs may have on the cost of raw materials and components and our ability to sell product internationally; (xiii.)


item1.txt
A goodwill impairment will be the amount by which a reporting unit’s carrying value exceeds its fair value, not to exceed the carrying amount of goodwill.
We plan to complete our annual analysis as of the first business day of our third quarter of fiscal 2020, which will begin on November 4, 2019.
The aggregate amount of investments without readily determinable fair values was $42 at August 3, 2019 and April 27, 2019, respectively.
As of April 28, 2019, we recognized a right of use asset for operating leases of $11,101 and a current and non-current lease liability for operating leases of $2,745 and $8,356, respectively.
In addition, we have elected the short-term lease recognition whereby we will not recognize operating leases related assets or liabilities for leases with a lease term of less than one year.
ASU 2016-02 requires lessors to account for leases using an approach that is substantially equivalent to existing guidance for sales-type leases, direct financing leases and operating leases.
There have been no transfers of assets or liabilities among the fair value hierarchies presented.
Separate financial information is available and regularly evaluated by our chief operating decision-maker (CODM), who is our president and chief executive officer, in making resource allocation decisions for our segments.
We are currently evaluating the effect that adopting ASU 2016-13 will have on our condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
These were included in the "Accrued expenses" line item in our condensed consolidated balance sheets.
Note 7. Business Combinations
When April 30 falls on a Wednesday, the fiscal year ends on the preceding Saturday.
Accounts receivable are reported net of an allowance for doubtful accounts of $2,292 and $2,208 at August 3, 2019 and April 27, 2019, respectively.


item2.txt
•our ability to generate profits over the long-term to provide a shareholder return.
Contribution margin consists of gross profit less selling expenses.
For a summary of recently issued accounting pronouncements and the effects of those pronouncements on our financial results, refer to "Note 1.
the timing and magnitude of future contracts; (vii.)
Our remaining performance obligations ("backlog") consist of contractually binding sales agreements or purchase orders for integrated electronic display systems and related products and service.
•Additional standard display offerings using micro-light emitting diode ("LED") designs.
•Lower product costs, driving an expansion of the marketplace.
Selling expense in our Transportation business unit for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 remained relatively flat compared to the same quarter a year ago.
•The competitive nature of sports teams, which strive to out-perform their competitors with display systems.
We expect to enter into a new credit facility, loan agreement, and guaranty agreement prior to our current agreements expiring in November 2019.
•our ability to generate profits over the long-term to provide a shareholder return.
When working capital is needed, we have historically financed our cash needs through a combination of cash flow from operations and borrowings under bank credit agreements.
Within each fiscal year, each quarter is comprised of 13-week periods following the beginning of each fiscal year.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Based upon that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that as of August 3, 2019, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective.


part2.txt
Item 1.


