item1.txt
We design, manufacture and sell computerized (i.e., Computer Numeric Control, or CNC) machine tools, consisting primarily of vertical machining centers (mills) and turning centers (lathes), to companies in the metal cutting industry through a worldwide sales, service and distribution network.
We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service, training, and applications support.
We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service, training and applications support.
We adopted Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 606 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” (“ASC 606”) on November 1, 2018, the start of our 2019 fiscal year, and elected the modified retrospective method as of the date of adoption.
We recognize revenues from the sale of machine tools, components and accessories and services and reflect the consideration to which we expect to be entitled.
In accordance with ASC 606, we have defined contracts as agreements with our customers and distributors in the form of purchase orders, packing or shipping documents, invoices, and, periodically, verbal requests for components and accessories.
For each contract, we identify our performance obligations, which is delivering goods or services, determine the transaction price, allocate the contract transaction price to each of the performance obligations (when applicable), and recognize the revenue when (or as) the performance obligation to the customer is fulfilled.
Therefore, we recognize revenue from sales of our machine tool systems upon delivery of the product to the customer or distributor, which is normally at the time of shipment.
For our five-axis machines that we install, we estimate the fair value of the installation performance obligation and recognize that installation revenue on a prorata basis over the period of the installation process.
We enter into these forward exchange contracts to reduce the potential effects of foreign exchange rate movements on our net equity investment in one of our foreign subsidiaries, to reduce the impact on gross profit and net earnings from sales and purchases denominated in foreign currencies, and to reduce the impact on our net earnings of foreign currency fluctuations on receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies that are different than the subsidiaries’ functional currency.
We are primarily exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to transactions and net assets denominated in Euros, Pounds Sterling, Indian Rupee, South African Rand, Singapore Dollars, Chinese Yuan, Polish Zloty, and New Taiwan Dollars.
We had forward contracts outstanding as of July 31, 2019, denominated in Euros, Pounds Sterling and New Taiwan Dollars with set maturity dates ranging from August 2019 through July 2020.
The contract amounts, expressed at forward rates in U.S. Dollars at July 31, 2019, were $19.3 million for Euros, $6.5 million for Pounds Sterling and $19.4 million for New Taiwan Dollars.
At July 31, 2019, we had approximately $1.2 million of gains, net of tax, related to cash flow hedges deferred in Accumulated other comprehensive loss.
Included in this amount were $487,000 of unrealized gains, net of tax, related to cash flow hedge instruments that remain subject to currency fluctuation risk.
The majority of these deferred gains will be recorded as an adjustment to Cost of sales and service in periods through July 2020, when the corresponding inventory that is the subject of the related hedge contracts is sold, as described above.
We designated this forward contract as a hedge of our net investment in Euro denominated assets.
The forward method requires all changes in the fair value of the contract to be reported as a cumulative translation adjustment in Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, in the same manner as the underlying hedged net assets.
As of July 31, 2019, we had $804,000 of realized gains and $114,000 of unrealized gains, net of tax, recorded as cumulative translation adjustments in Accumulated other comprehensive loss related to this forward contract.
We also enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to protect against the effects of foreign currency fluctuations on receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies.
These derivative instruments are not designated as hedges under the FASB guidance and, as a result, changes in their fair value are reported currently as Other income (expense), net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income consistent with the transaction gain or loss on the related receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies.
We had forward contracts outstanding as of July 31, 2019, denominated in Euros, Pounds Sterling, South African Rand, and New Taiwan Dollar with set maturity dates ranging from August 2019 through July 2020.
The contract amounts, expressed at forward rates in U.S. Dollars at July 31, 2019, totaled $63.0 million.
In March 2016, we adopted the Hurco Companies, Inc. 2016 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2016 Equity Plan”), which allows us to grant awards of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, stock units and other stock-based awards.
The total number of shares of our common stock that may be issued pursuant to awards under the 2016 Equity Plan is 856,048, which includes 386,048 shares remaining available for future grants under the 2008 Plan as of March 10, 2016, the date our shareholders approved the 2016 Equity Plan.
On March 14, 2019, the Compensation Committee granted a total of 11,824 shares of time-based restricted stock to our non-employee directors.
The restricted shares vest in full one year from the date of grant provided the recipient remains on the board of directors through that date.
The grant date fair value of the restricted shares was based on the closing sales price of our common stock on the grant date, which was $40.58 per share.
On January 2, 2019, the Compensation Committee determined the degree to which the long-term incentive compensation arrangement approved for the fiscal 2016-2018 performance period was attained, and the resulting payout level relative to the target amount for each of the metrics that were established by the Compensation Committee in 2016.
As a result, the Compensation Committee determined that a total of 32,559 performance shares were earned by our executive officers, which performance shares vested on January 2, 2019.
The vesting date fair value of the performance shares was based on the closing sales price of our common stock on the vesting date, which was $36.08 per share.
On January 2, 2019, the Compensation Committee also approved a long-term incentive compensation arrangement for our executive officers in the form of restricted shares and performance stock units (“PSUs”) under the 2016 Equity Plan, which will be payable in shares of our common stock if earned and vested.
On that date, the Compensation Committee granted a total of 21,825 shares of time-based restricted stock to our executive officers.
The grant date fair value of the restricted shares was based upon the closing sales price of our common stock on the date of grant, which was $36.08 per share.
On January 2, 2019, the Compensation Committee also granted a total target number of 30,943 PSUs to our executive officers designated as “PSU – TSR”.
These PSUs were weighted as approximately 40% of the overall 2019 executive long-term incentive compensation arrangement and will vest and be paid based upon the total shareholder return of our common stock over the three-year period of fiscal 2019-2021, relative to the total shareholder return of the companies in a specified peer group over that period.
On January 2, 2019, the Compensation Committee also granted a total target number of 30,557 PSUs to our executive officers designated as “PSU – ROIC”.
These PSUs were weighted as approximately 35% of the overall 2019 executive long-term incentive compensation arrangement and will vest and be paid based upon the achievement of pre-established goals related to our average return on invested capital over the three-year period of fiscal 2019-2021.
The grant date fair value of the PSUs – ROIC was based on the closing sales price of our common stock on the grant date, which was $36.08 per share.
On November 14, 2018, the Compensation Committee granted a total of 7,200 shares of time-based restricted stock to our non-executive employees.
The grant date fair value of the restricted shares was based upon the closing sales price of our common stock on the date of grant, which was $40.01 per share.
During the nine months of fiscal 2019 and 2018, we recorded $2.1 million and $1.8 million, respectively, of stock-based compensation expense related to grants under the 2008 Plan and the 2016 Equity Plan.
As of July 31, 2019, there was an estimated $4.2 million of total unrecognized stock-based compensation cost that we expect to recognize by the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2022.
From time to time, our subsidiaries guarantee third party payment obligations in connection with the sale of machines to customers that use financing.
On December 31, 2018, we and our subsidiary Hurco B.V. entered into a new credit agreement (the “2018 Credit Agreement”) with Bank of America, N.A., as the lender.
The 2018 Credit Agreement provides that the maximum amount of outstanding letters of credit at any one time may not exceed $10.0 million, the maximum amount of outstanding loans made to our subsidiary Hurco B.V. at any one time may not exceed $20.0 million, and the maximum amount of all outstanding loans denominated in alternative currencies at any one time may not exceed $20.0 million.
The 2018 Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants and events of default, including covenants (1) restricting us from making certain investments, loans, advances and acquisitions (but permitting us to make investments in subsidiaries of up to $10.0 million); (2) restricting us from making certain payments, including cash dividends, except that we may pay cash dividends as long as immediately before and after giving effect to such payment, the sum of the unused amount of the commitments under the 2018 Credit Agreement plus our cash on hand is not less than $10.0 million, and as long as we are not in default before and after giving effect to such dividend payments; (3) requiring that we maintain a minimum working capital of $125.0 million; and (4) requiring that we maintain a minimum tangible net worth of $170.0 million.
(“NHML”), closed on uncommitted revolving credit facilities with maximum aggregate amounts of 150 million New Taiwan Dollars (the “Taiwan credit facility”) and 32.5 million Chinese Yuan (the “China credit facility”), respectively.
As a result, as of July 31, 2019, our existing credit facilities consist of our €1.5 million revolving credit facility in Germany, the 150 million New Taiwan Dollars Taiwan credit facility, the 32.5 million Chinese Yuan China credit facility and the $40.0 million revolving credit facility under the 2018 Credit Agreement.
Included in Level 2 fair value measurements are derivative assets and liabilities related to gains and losses on foreign currency forward exchange contracts entered into with a third party.
We estimate the fair value of these derivatives on a recurring basis using foreign currency exchange rates obtained from active markets.
We have derivative financial instruments in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts as described in Note 3 of Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The fair value of our foreign currency forward exchange contracts and the related currency positions are subject to offsetting market risk resulting from foreign currency exchange rate volatility.
On August 5, 2019, we (through a newly-formed subsidiary) acquired substantially all of the assets of a U.S.-based robotics integration company for approximately $4.5 million.


item2.txt
In the comparison of our period-to-period results, we discuss the effect of currency translation on those results, which reflect translation to U.S. Dollars at exchange rates prevailing during the period covered by those financial statements.
Sales and service fees for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 were $58.5 million, a decrease of $20.3 million, or 26%, compared to the corresponding prior year period and included an unfavorable currency impact of $1.9 million, or 2%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
Sales of computerized machine tools and computer control systems and software decreased by 29% and 16%, respectively, for the third quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, due mainly to a reduced volume of shipments of Hurco vertical milling machines and Takumi bridge mill machines.
Sales of service parts decreased in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 by 8%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, primarily due to a reduction in aftermarket sales of service parts for all three product lines, Hurco, Takumi and Milltronics.
Service fees increased in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 by 2%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
Orders for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 were $53.0 million, a decrease of $23.0 million, or 30%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included an unfavorable currency impact of $1.8 million, or 2%, when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars.
Orders in the Americas for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased by 8%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, due primarily to decreased customer demand in the U.S. for Hurco vertical milling machines, partially offset by an increase in orders for Takumi vertical milling machines and vertical milling machines sold by the newly acquired distributor.
European orders for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased by 39%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, and included an unfavorable currency impact of 4% when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars.
The year-over-year decrease in orders was driven primarily by decreased customer demand for Hurco vertical milling machines in Germany, the United Kingdom and France, as well as a decrease in customer demand for electro-mechanical components and accessories manufactured by LCM.
Asian Pacific orders for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased by 37%, compared to the corresponding prior year period and included an unfavorable currency impact of 2% when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars.
The decrease in orders for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was mainly the result of decreased customer demand for Hurco vertical milling machines in India and Southeast Asia and Takumi bridge mill machines in China.
Gross profit for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was $17.2 million, or 29% of sales, compared to $24.5 million, or 31% of sales, for the corresponding prior year period.
The gross profit for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 remained generally stable at approximately 30%, despite the reduction in sales volume year over year, due to an increased mix of larger, higher-priced vertical milling machine sales and margin contribution from vertical milling machine sales from the newly acquired distributor.
Operating income for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was $4.6 million, compared to $9.4 million for the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
The decrease in operating income year-over-year was driven primarily by the reduction in sales volume.
Other Income (Expense), Net. Other expense, net in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased by $0.4 million from the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, due primarily to net realized and unrealized losses from foreign currency fluctuations on payables and receivables, net of foreign currency forward exchange contracts.
The effective tax rate for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was 25%, compared to 28% in the corresponding prior year period.
Sales and service fees for the nine months of fiscal 2019 were $203.4 million, a decrease of $14.2 million, or 7%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included an unfavorable currency impact of $7.3 million, or 3%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
Sales of computerized machine tools for the nine months of fiscal 2019 decreased by 8%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included an unfavorable currency impact of 3% when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
Sales of computer control systems and software increased by 4%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, due mainly to an increase in aftermarket software sales in France and the Americas.
Sales of service parts and service fees increased in the nine months of fiscal 2019 by 4% each, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, due primarily to sales of aftermarket sales and service by the newly acquired distributor.
Orders for the nine months of fiscal 2019 were $188.2 million, a decrease of $44.6 million, or 19%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included an unfavorable currency impact of $7.2 million, or 3%, when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars.
Orders in the Americas for the nine months of fiscal 2019 increased by 3% due to increased customer demand for Takumi vertical milling machines and vertical milling machines sold by the newly acquired distributor.
European orders for the nine months of fiscal 2019 decreased by 28%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, and included an unfavorable currency impact of 4% when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars.
The year-over-year decrease in orders were driven primarily by decreased customer demand for Hurco vertical milling machines in Germany, the United Kingdom and France, as well as a decrease in customer demand for electro-mechanical components and accessories manufactured by LCM.
Asian Pacific orders for the nine months of fiscal 2019 decreased by 25%, compared to the corresponding prior year period and included an unfavorable currency impact of 4% when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars.
The year-over-year decrease in orders was primarily due to decreased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi machines in China and India.
Gross profit for the nine months of fiscal 2019 was $61.0 million, or 30% of sales, compared to $64.0 million, or 29% of sales, for the corresponding prior year period.
The gross profit for the nine months of fiscal 2019 remained generally stable at approximately 30%, despite the reduction in sales volume year over year, due to an increased mix of larger, higher-priced vertical milling machine sales and margin contribution from vertical milling machine sales from the newly acquired distributor.
Operating income for the nine months of fiscal 2019 was $20.4 million, compared to $22.5 million for the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
Other Income (Expense), Net. Other income (expense), net in the nine months of fiscal 2019 increased by $1.4 million from the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, due primarily to net realized and unrealized losses from foreign currency fluctuations on payables and receivables, net of foreign currency forward exchange contracts.
The effective tax rate for the nine months of fiscal 2019 was 28%, compared to 40% in the corresponding prior year period.
The year-over-year decrease in the effective tax rate for the nine months was primarily due to one-time charges of $2.9 million related to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.


item3.txt
We enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts from time to time to hedge the cash flow risk related to forecasted inter-company sales and purchases denominated in, or based on, foreign currencies (primarily the Euro, Pound Sterling, and New Taiwan Dollar).
We also enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to protect against the effects of foreign currency fluctuations on receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies.
We also enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to hedge a portion of our net investment denominated in Euros.


part2.txt
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


