item1.txt
Currently, the only risk that we manage through the use of derivative instruments is foreign currency risk, for which we enter into derivative instruments in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts with a major financial institution.
We enter into these forward exchange contracts to reduce the potential effects of foreign exchange rate movements on our net equity investment in one of our foreign subsidiaries, to reduce the impact on gross profit and net earnings from sales and purchases denominated in foreign currencies, and to reduce the impact on our net earnings of foreign currency fluctuations on receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies that are different than the subsidiaries’ functional currency.
We are primarily exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to transactions and net assets denominated in Euros, Pounds Sterling, Indian Rupee, South African Rand, Singapore Dollars, Chinese Yuan, Polish Zloty, and New Taiwan Dollars.
We had forward contracts outstanding as of April 30, 2018, denominated in Euros, Pounds Sterling and New Taiwan Dollars with set maturity dates ranging from May 2018 through April 2019.
The contract amounts, expressed at forward rates in U.S. Dollars at April 30, 2018, were $41.0 million for Euros, $10.9 million for Pounds Sterling and $41.8 million for New Taiwan Dollars.
At April 30, 2018, we had approximately $1.4 million of losses, net of tax, related to cash flow hedges deferred in Accumulated other comprehensive loss.
Included in this amount were $339,000 of unrealized losses, net of tax, related to cash flow hedge instruments that remain subject to currency fluctuation risk.
The majority of these deferred losses will be recorded as an adjustment to Cost of sales and service in periods through April 2019, when the corresponding inventory that is the subject of the related hedge contracts is sold, as described above.
We designated this forward contract as a hedge of our net investment in Euro denominated assets.
We selected the forward method under Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, guidance related to the accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities.
The forward method requires all changes in the fair value of the contract to be reported as a cumulative translation adjustment in Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, in the same manner as the underlying hedged net assets.
As of April 30, 2018, we had $637,000 of realized gains and $39,000 of unrealized losses, net of tax, recorded as cumulative translation adjustments in Accumulated other comprehensive loss related to this forward contract.
These derivative instruments are not designated as hedges under the FASB guidance and, as a result, changes in their fair value are reported currently as Other expense, net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income consistent with the transaction gain or loss on the related receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies.
We had forward contracts outstanding as of April 30, 2018, denominated in Euros, Pounds Sterling, South African Rand, and New Taiwan Dollar with set maturity dates ranging from May 2018 through October 2018.
The contract amounts, expressed at forward rates in U.S. Dollars at April 30, 2018, totaled $58.1 million.
We recognized a gain of $168,000 for the six months ended April 30, 2017 as a result of contracts closed early that were deemed ineffective for financial reporting purposes and did not qualify as cash flow hedges.
In March 2016, we adopted the Hurco Companies, Inc. 2016 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2016 Equity Plan”), which allows us to grant awards of stock options, stock appreciation rights (“SARs”), restricted stock, stock units and other stock-based awards.
The total number of shares of our common stock that may be issued pursuant to awards under the 2016 Equity Plan is 856,048, which includes 386,048 shares remaining available for future grants under the 2008 Plan as of March 10, 2016, the date our shareholders approved the 2016 Equity Plan.
The Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors has the authority to determine the officers, directors and key employees who will be granted awards under the 2016 Equity Plan; designate the number of shares subject to each award; determine the terms and conditions upon which awards will be granted; and prescribe the form and terms of award agreements.
We have granted restricted shares and performance units under the 2016 Equity Plan that are currently outstanding, and we have granted stock options, restricted shares and performance shares under the 2008 Plan that are currently outstanding.
No stock option may be exercised more than ten years after the date of grant or such shorter period as the Compensation Committee may determine at the date of grant.
The market value of a share of our common stock, for purposes of the 2016 Equity Plan, is the closing sale price as reported by the Nasdaq Global Select Market on the date in question or, if not a trading day, on the last preceding trading date.
The total intrinsic value of stock options exercised during the six months ended April 30, 2018 was approximately $790,000.
On November 15, 2017, the Compensation Committee granted a total of 2,364 shares of time-based restricted stock to our non-executive employees.
The grant date fair value of the restricted shares was based upon the closing sales price of our common stock on the date of grant, which was $42.30 per share.
On January 3, 2018, the Compensation Committee determined the degree to which the long-term incentive compensation arrangement approved for the fiscal 2015-2017 performance period was attained, and the resulting payout level relative to the target amount for each of the metrics that were established by the Compensation Committee in 2015.
As a result, the Compensation Committee determined that a total of 23,299 performance shares were earned by our executive officers, which performance shares vested on January 3, 2018.
The vesting date fair value of the performance shares was based on the closing sales price of our common stock on the vesting date, which was $42.20 per share.
On January 3, 2018, the Compensation Committee also approved a long-term incentive compensation arrangement for our executive officers in the form of restricted shares and performance stock units (“PSUs”) under the 2016 Equity Plan, which will be payable in shares of our common stock if earned and vested.
On that date, the Compensation Committee granted a total of 14,810 shares of time-based restricted stock to our executive officers.
The grant date fair value of the restricted shares was based upon the closing sales price of our common stock on the date of grant, which was $42.20 per share.
On January 3, 2018, the Compensation Committee also granted a total target number of 20,734 PSUs to our executive officers designated as “PSU – TSR”.
These PSUs were weighted as approximately 40% of the overall 2018 executive long-term incentive compensation arrangement and will vest and be paid based upon the total shareholder return of our common stock over the three-year period of fiscal 2018-2020, relative to the total shareholder return of the companies in a specified peer group over that period.
On January 3, 2018, the Compensation Committee also granted a total target number of 21,891 PSUs to our executive officers designated as “PSU – ROIC”.
These PSUs were weighted as approximately 35% of the overall 2018 executive long-term incentive compensation arrangement and will vest and be paid based upon the achievement of pre-established goals related to our average return on invested capital over the three-year period of fiscal 2018-2020.
The grant date fair value of the PSUs – ROIC was based on the closing sales price of our common stock on the grant date, which was $42.20 per share.
On March 15, 2018, the Compensation Committee granted a total of 9,114 shares of time-based restricted stock to our non-employee directors.
The restricted shares vest in full one year from the date of grant provided the recipient remains on the board of directors through that date.
The grant date fair value of the restricted shares was based on the closing sales price of our common stock on the grant date, which was $46.05 per share.
During the first six months of fiscal 2018 and 2017, we recorded $1.2 million and $0.6 million, respectively, as stock-based compensation expense related to grants under our equity plans.
As of April 30, 2018, there was an estimated $4.0 million of total unrecognized stock-based compensation cost that we expect to recognize by the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2021.
The U.S. credit agreement contains customary financial covenants, including covenants (1) restricting us from making certain investments, loans, advances and acquisitions (but permitting us to make investments in subsidiaries of up to $5.0 million), (2) requiring that we maintain a minimum working capital, and (3) requiring that we maintain a minimum tangible net worth.
On December 6, 2016, we entered into a fourth amendment to our U.S. credit agreement to, among other things, increase the unsecured revolving credit facility from $12.5 million to $15.0 million, to increase the cash dividend allowance from $4.0 million per calendar year to $5.0 million per calendar year, and to extend the scheduled maturity date to December 31, 2018.
Included in Level 2 fair value measurements are derivative assets and liabilities related to gains and losses on foreign currency forward exchange contracts entered into with a third party.
We estimate the fair value of these derivatives on a recurring basis using foreign currency exchange rates obtained from active markets.
We have derivative financial instruments in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts as described in Note 2 of Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The fair value of our foreign currency forward exchange contracts and the related currency positions are subject to offsetting market risk resulting from foreign currency exchange rate volatility.


item2.txt
During the first six months of fiscal 2018, approximately 55% of our revenues were attributable to customers in Europe, where we typically sell more of our higher-performance, higher-priced VMX series machines.
For example, when the U.S. Dollar weakens in value relative to a foreign currency, sales made, and expenses incurred, in that currency when translated to U.S. Dollars for reporting in our financial statements, are higher than would be the case when the U.S. Dollar is stronger.
Sales and service fees for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 were $70.4 million, an increase of $12.2 million, or 21%, compared to the corresponding prior year period and included a favorable currency impact of $4.9 million, or 8%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
Sales in the Americas for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 20%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, due primarily to improved U.S. market conditions and demand from U.S. customers for the Hurco and Milltronics product lines.
The increase in sales was primarily attributable to an increased sales volume of entry-level vertical milling and lathe machines from the Hurco and Milltronics product lines.
European sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 21%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of 14%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
The increase in European sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 resulted mainly from increased customer demand for Hurco vertical milling machines in the United Kingdom and Italy.
Asian Pacific sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 22%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of 6%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
The increase in Asian Pacific sales for the second quarter of 2018 was primarily attributable to increased customer demand for Hurco vertical milling machines in China and India, both of which are sales regions Hurco has been targeting for growth.
The year-over-year increase in sales of computerized machine tools and computer control systems and software for the second quarter of fiscal 2018, exclusive of an 8% favorable currency impact, was driven primarily by an increase in the volume of sales of vertical milling machines from all product lines and across all regions.
Sales of service parts increased in the second quarter of fiscal 2018, compared to the corresponding prior year period, due primarily to an increase in aftermarket sales in the Americas and Europe.
Service fees increased slightly in the second quarter of fiscal 2018, compared to the corresponding prior year period, due primarily to increased demand for aftermarket service in Germany, the United Kingdom and the Americas.
Orders for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 were a record $79.9 million, an increase of $16.6 million, or 26%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of $5.4 million, or 9%, when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars.
Orders in the Americas for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 13%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017.
European orders for the second quarter increased by 41%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, and included a favorable currency impact of 15% when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars.
This increase in orders mainly resulted from increased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi vertical milling machines in Germany and the United Kingdom, as well as increased customer demand of machine tool components and accessories manufactured by our wholly-owned subsidiary LCM.
Asian Pacific orders for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 5%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, and included a favorable currency impact of 4% when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars.
Excluding the favorable currency impact, Asian Pacific orders increased slightly due primarily to increased customer demand for Hurco vertical milling machines in China, India and Southeast Asia, offset by a reduction in customer demand for Takumi vertical milling machines in China.
Gross profit for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 was $19.3 million, or 27% of sales, compared to $17.1 million, or 29% of sales, for the corresponding prior year period.
The decrease in gross profit as a percentage of sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2017 reflected an increased sales volume of entry-level Hurco and Milltronics vertical milling machines, particularly in the U.S. and Europe, partially offset by the favorable impact of foreign currency translation.
Selling, general and administrative expenses for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 were $13.3 million, or 19% of sales, compared to $11.7 million, or 20% of sales, in the corresponding period in fiscal 2017.
The year-over-year increase in selling, general and administrative expenses for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 was largely driven by an unfavorable currency impact of $0.8 million, when translating foreign expenses to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes, as well as increased spending for trade shows and exhibitions.
Operating income for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 was $6.0 million, compared to $5.4 million for the corresponding period in fiscal 2017.
The increase in operating income year-over-year was driven primarily by an increase in the volume of sales of vertical milling machines from all product lines and across all regions.
Other Expense, Net. Other expense in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by $0.3 million from the corresponding period in fiscal 2017 due primarily to the net realized and unrealized losses from foreign currency fluctuations on payables and receivables, net of foreign currency forward exchange contracts.
Sales and service fees for the first six months of fiscal 2018 were $138.9 million, an increase of $31.9 million, or 30%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of $9.3 million, or 9%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
Orders for the first six months of fiscal 2018 were a record $156.8 million, an increase of $32.4 million, or 26%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of $10.5 million, or 8%, when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars.
Orders in the Americas for the first six months of fiscal 2018 increased by 7%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017.
For the first six months of fiscal 2018, European orders increased by 39%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, and included a favorable currency impact of 14%, when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars.
The year-over-year increase in orders in the first six months was driven predominately by increased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi vertical milling machines in Germany, Italy and France, and increased demand for LCM machine tool components and accessories.
Asian Pacific orders for the first six months of fiscal 2018 increased by 22%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, and included a favorable currency impact of 7% when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars.
The year-over-year increase in orders was mostly due to increased customer demand for Hurco vertical milling machines in China, India and Southeast Asia, offset by a reduction in customer demand for Takumi vertical milling machines in China.
Gross profit for the first six months of fiscal 2018 was $39.4 million, or 28% of sales, compared to $29.7 million, or 28% of sales, for the corresponding prior year period.
The increase in gross profit year-over-year was driven primarily by an increase in the volume of sales of vertical milling machines from all product lines and across all regions.
Operating income for the first six months of fiscal 2018 was $13.1 million, compared to $6.8 million for the corresponding period in fiscal 2017.
The increase in operating income year-over-year was driven primarily by an increase in the volume of sales of vertical milling machines from all product lines and across all regions.
Other Expense, Net. Other expense in the first six months of fiscal 2018 increased by $0.1 million from the corresponding period in fiscal 2017 due primarily to the net realized and unrealized losses from foreign currency fluctuations on payables and receivables, net of foreign currency forward exchange contracts.
The effective tax rate for the first six months of fiscal 2018 was 48%, compared to 31% in the corresponding prior year period.
The year-over-year increase in the effective tax rate for the first six months was primarily due to one-time charges of $2.9 million related to the Tax Reform Act. The impact of these one-time charges increased the effective tax rate by approximately 39% for the first quarter of fiscal 2018.


item3.txt
We enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts from time to time to hedge the cash flow risk related to forecasted inter-company sales and purchases denominated in, or based on, foreign currencies (primarily the Euro, Pound Sterling, and New Taiwan Dollar).
We also enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to protect against the effects of foreign currency fluctuations on receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies.
We also enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge a portion of our net investment denominated in Euros.


part2.txt
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


