item1.txt
We are exposed to certain market risks relating to our ongoing business operations, including foreign currency risk, interest rate risk and credit risk.
Currently, the only risk that we manage through the use of derivative instruments is foreign currency risk for which we enter into derivative instruments in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts with a major financial institution.
We enter into these forward exchange contracts to reduce the potential effects of foreign exchange rate movements on our net equity investment in one of our foreign subsidiaries, to reduce the impact on gross profit and net earnings from sales and purchases denominated in foreign currencies, and to reduce the impact on our net earnings of foreign currency fluctuations on receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies that are different than the subsidiaries’ functional currency.
We are primarily exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to transactions and net assets denominated in Euros, Pounds Sterling, Indian Rupee, South African Rand, Singapore Dollars, Chinese Yuan, Polish Zloty, and New Taiwan Dollars.
We had forward contracts outstanding as of January 31, 2018, denominated in Euros, Pounds Sterling and New Taiwan Dollars with set maturity dates ranging from February 2018 through January 2019.
The contract amounts, expressed at forward rates in U.S. Dollars at January 31, 2018, were $40.1 million for Euros, $9.8 million for Pounds Sterling and $37.4 million for New Taiwan Dollars.
At January 31, 2018, we had approximately $2.2 million of losses, net of tax, related to cash flow hedges deferred in Accumulated other comprehensive loss.
Included in this amount were $1.2 million of unrealized losses, net of tax, related to cash flow hedge instruments that remain subject to currency fluctuation risk.
The majority of these deferred losses will be recorded as an adjustment to Cost of sales and service in periods through January 2019, when the corresponding inventory that is the subject of the related hedge contracts is sold, as described above.
To manage this risk, we entered into a forward contract with a notional amount of €3.0 million in November 2017.
We selected the forward method under Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, guidance related to the accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities.
The forward method requires all changes in the fair value of the contract to be reported as a cumulative translation adjustment in Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, in the same manner as the underlying hedged net assets.
As of January 31, 2018, we had $609,000 of realized gains and $106,000 of unrealized losses, net of tax, recorded as cumulative translation adjustments in Accumulated other comprehensive loss related to this forward contract.
These derivative instruments are not designated as hedges under the FASB guidance and, as a result, changes in their fair value are reported currently as Other income (expense), net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income consistent with the transaction gain or loss on the related receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies.
We had forward contracts outstanding as of January 31, 2018, denominated in Euros, Pounds Sterling, South African Rand, and New Taiwan Dollar with set maturity dates ranging from February 2018 through October 2018.
The contract amounts, expressed at forward rates in U.S. Dollars at January 31, 2018 totaled $63.3 million.
In March 2016, we adopted the Hurco Companies, Inc. 2016 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2016 Equity Plan”), which allows us to grant awards of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, stock units and other stock-based awards.
The total number of shares of our common stock that may be issued pursuant to awards under the 2016 Equity Plan is 856,048, which includes 386,048 shares remaining available for future grants under the 2008 Plan as of March 10, 2016, the date our shareholders approved the 2016 Equity Plan.
The Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors has the authority to determine the officers, directors and key employees who will be granted awards under the 2016 Equity Plan; designate the number of shares subject to each award; determine the terms and conditions upon which awards will be granted; and prescribe the form and terms of award agreements.
We have granted restricted shares and performance units under the 2016 Equity Plan, that are currently outstanding, and we have granted stock options, restricted shares and performance shares under the 2008 Plan that are currently outstanding.
No stock option may be exercised more than ten years after the date of grant or such shorter period as the Compensation Committee may determine at the date of grant.
The market value of a share of our common stock, for purposes of the 2016 Equity Plan, is the closing sale price as reported by the Nasdaq Global Select Market on the date in question or, if not a trading day, on the last preceding trading date.
The total intrinsic value of stock options exercised during the three months ended January 31, 2018 was approximately $492,000.
On March 9, 2017, the Compensation Committee granted a total of 14,920 shares of time-based restricted stock to our non-employee directors.
The restricted shares vest in full one year from the date of grant provided the recipient remains on the board of directors through that date.
The grant date fair value of the restricted shares was based on the closing sales price of our common stock on the grant date, which was $26.80 per share.
On November 15, 2017, the Compensation Committee granted a total of 2,364 shares of time-based restricted stock to our non-executive employees.
The grant date fair value of the restricted shares was based upon the closing sales price of our common stock on the date of grant which was $42.30 per share.
On January 3, 2018, the Compensation Committee determined the degree to which the long-term incentive compensation arrangement approved for the fiscal 2015-2017 performance period was attained, and the resulting payout level relative to the target amount for each of the metrics that were established by the Compensation Committee in 2015.
As a result, the Compensation Committee determined that a total of 23,299 performance shares were earned by our executive officers, which performance shares vested on January 3, 2018.
The vesting date fair value of the performance shares was based on the closing sales price of our common stock on the vesting date, which was $42.20 per share.
On January 3, 2018, the Compensation Committee also approved a long-term incentive compensation arrangement for our executive officers in the form of restricted shares and performance stock units (“PSUs”) under the 2016 Equity Plan, which will be payable in shares of our common stock if earned and vested.
On that date, the Compensation Committee granted a total of 14,810 shares of time-based restricted stock to our executive officers.
The grant date fair value of the restricted shares was based upon the closing sales price of our common stock on the date of grant which was $42.20 per share.
On January 3, 2018, the Compensation Committee also granted a total target number of 20,734 PSUs to our executive officers designated as “PSU – TSR”.
These PSUs were weighted as approximately 40% of the overall 2018 executive long-term incentive compensation arrangement and will vest and be paid based upon the total shareholder return of our common stock over the three-year period of fiscal 2018-2020, relative to the total shareholder return of the companies in a specified peer group over that period.
On January 3, 2018, the Compensation Committee also granted a total target number of 21,891 PSUs to our executive officers designated as “PSU – ROIC”.
These PSUs were weighted as approximately 35% of the overall 2018 executive long-term incentive compensation arrangement and will vest and be paid based upon the achievement of pre-established goals related to our average return on invested capital over the three-year period of fiscal 2018-2020.
The grant date fair value of the PSUs – ROIC was based on the closing sales price of our common stock on the grant date, which was $42.20 per share.
During the first three months of fiscal 2018 and 2017, we recorded $549,000 and $351,000, respectively, as stock-based compensation expense related to grants under our equity plans.
As of January 31, 2018, there was an estimated $4.2 million of total unrecognized stock-based compensation cost that we expect to recognize by the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2021.
The U.S. credit agreement contains customary financial covenants, including covenants (1) restricting us from making certain investments, loans, advances and acquisitions (but permitting us to make investments in subsidiaries of up to $5.0 million), (2) requiring that we maintain a minimum working capital, and (3) requiring that we maintain a minimum tangible net worth.
On December 6, 2016, we entered into a fourth amendment to our U.S. credit agreement to, among other things, increase the unsecured revolving credit facility from $12.5 million to $15.0 million, to increase the cash dividend allowance from $4.0 million per calendar year to $5.0 million per calendar year, and to extend the scheduled maturity date to December 31, 2018.
We had $1.6 million and $1.5 million of borrowings under our China credit facility at January 31, 2018 and October 31, 2017, respectively, which bears interest at variable rates of 4.4% and 4.4% annually, respectively.
Included in Level 2 fair value measurements are derivative assets and liabilities related to gains and losses on foreign currency forward exchange contracts entered into with a third party.
We estimate the fair value of these derivatives on a recurring basis using foreign currency exchange rates obtained from active markets.
Derivative instruments are reported in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements at fair value.
We have derivative financial instruments in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts as described in Note 2 of Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The fair value of our foreign currency forward exchange contracts and the related currency positions are subject to offsetting market risk resulting from foreign currency exchange rate volatility.
In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-12, Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815) Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities, which simplifies the application of hedge accounting and enables companies to better portray the economics of their risk management activities in their financial statements.


item2.txt
We design, manufacture and sell computerized (i.e., Computer Numeric Control, or CNC) machine tools, consisting primarily of vertical machining centers (mills) and turning centers (lathes), to companies in the metal cutting industry through a worldwide sales, service and distribution network.
Changes in currency exchange rates may have a material effect on our operating results and consolidated financial statements as reported under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
For example, when the U.S. Dollar weakens in value relative to a foreign currency, sales made, and expenses incurred, in that currency when translated to U.S. Dollars for reporting in our financial statements, are higher than would be the case when the U.S. Dollar is stronger.
In the comparison of our period-to-period results, we discuss the effect of currency translation on those results, which reflect translation to U.S. Dollars at exchange rates prevailing during the period covered by those financial statements.
Sales and service fees for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 were $68.4 million, an increase of $19.7 million, or 40%, compared to the corresponding prior year period and included a favorable currency impact of $4.4 million, or 9%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
Sales in the Americas for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 26% compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and reflected improved U.S. market conditions and demand from U.S. customers for all product lines (Hurco, Takumi and Milltronics).
European sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 50%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of 15%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
The increase in European sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily attributable to increased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi vertical milling machines in Germany, the United Kingdom, France and Italy.
Asian Pacific sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 41%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of 8%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
The increase in Asian Pacific sales for the first quarter of 2018 was primarily attributable to increased customer demand of Hurco and Takumi vertical milling machines in China, and included a notable increase in sales of Hurco machines in Southeast Asia.
The increase in sales of Computerized Machine Tools during the first quarter of fiscal 2018 compared to the corresponding prior year period was primarily due to increased customer demand from customers across all three regions and for all product lines (Hurco, Takumi and Milltronics).
Orders for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 were a record $76.9 million, an increase of $15.9 million, or 26%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of $5.0 million, or 8%, when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars.
Orders in the Americas for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 1%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017.
This increase was primarily attributable to slight increased customer demand for higher-performance Hurco machines.
European orders for the first quarter increased by 37%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, and included a favorable currency impact of 13% when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars.
The year-over-year increase in orders was driven primarily by increased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi vertical milling machines in Germany, Italy and France.
Asian Pacific orders for the first quarter increased by 46%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, and included a favorable currency impact of 11% when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars.
The year-over-year increase in orders was driven primarily by increased customer demand for Hurco vertical milling machines in China.
Gross profit for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was $20.1 million, or 29% of sales, compared to $12.6 million, or 26% of sales, for the corresponding prior year period.
The year-over-year increase in gross profit as a percentage of sales reflected the increased volume of sales of Hurco machines, particularly in Europe, and the favorable impact of foreign currency translation compared to the corresponding prior year period.
Selling, general and administrative expenses for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 were $13.0 million, or 19% of sales, compared to $11.2 million, or 23% of sales, in the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included an unfavorable currency impact of $0.7 million when translating foreign expenses to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
Operating income for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was $7.2 million compared to $1.4 million for the corresponding period in fiscal 2017.
The increase in operating income year-over-year was primarily driven by the increased volume of sales of Hurco machines, particularly in Europe, and the favorable impact of foreign currency translation compared to the corresponding prior year period.
Other Income (Expense), Net. Other income (expense), net in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by $0.2 million from the corresponding period in fiscal 2017 primarily due to foreign currency gains on transactions denominated in foreign currencies experienced in fiscal 2018 compared to foreign currency losses experienced in fiscal 2017.
The effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was 61% compared to 38% in the corresponding prior year period.
The increase in the effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 compared to the corresponding prior year period was primarily due to one-time provisional adjustments related to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Reform Act”) that was enacted on December 22, 2017.
As a result of the change in the tax law, a one-time non-cash tax charge of $0.4 million related to the revaluation of deferred tax assets and liabilities was recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
In addition, a one-time charge of $2.5 million related to the transition tax on the deemed repatriation of accumulated foreign income was recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, which amount is subject to adjustment during the measurement period of up to one year following the December 2017 enactment date, as provided by recent SEC guidance.
The impact of these charges increased our effective rate by approximately 39% for the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
From time to time, our subsidiaries guarantee third party payment obligations in connection with the sale of machines to customers that use financing.


item3.txt
We enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts from time to time to hedge the cash flow risk related to forecasted inter-company sales and purchases denominated in, or based on, foreign currencies (primarily the Euro, Pound Sterling, and New Taiwan Dollar).
We also enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to protect against the effects of foreign currency fluctuations on receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies.
We also enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge a portion of our net investment denominated in Euros.


part2.txt
During the period covered by this report, the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors engaged our independent registered public accounting firm to perform non-audit, tax planning services.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


