item1.txt
We design, manufacture and sell computerized (i.e., Computer Numeric Control, or CNC) machine tools, consisting primarily of vertical machining centers (mills) and turning centers (lathes), to companies in the metal cutting industry through a worldwide sales, service and distribution network.
We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service, training, and applications support.
We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service, training and applications support.
We adopted Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 606 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” (“ASC 606”) on November 1, 2018, the start of our 2019 fiscal year, and elected the modified retrospective method as of the date of adoption.
We recognize revenues from the sale of machine tools, components and accessories and services and reflect the consideration to which we expect to be entitled.
In accordance with ASC 606, we have defined contracts as agreements with our customers and distributors in the form of purchase orders, packing or shipping documents, invoices, and, periodically, verbal requests for components and accessories.
For each contract, we identify our performance obligations, which is delivering goods or services, determine the transaction price, allocate the contract transaction price to the performance obligations (when applicable), and recognize the revenue when (or as) the performance obligation is transferred to the customer.
Therefore, we recognize revenue from sales of our machine tool systems upon delivery of the product to the customer or distributor, which is normally at the time of shipment.
For our five-axis machines that we install, we estimate the fair value of the installation performance obligation and recognize that installation revenue on a prorate basis over the period of the installation process.
Customer discounts and estimated product returns are considered variable consideration and are recorded as a reduction of revenue in the same period that the related sales are recorded.
We enter into these forward exchange contracts to reduce the potential effects of foreign exchange rate movements on our net equity investment in one of our foreign subsidiaries, to reduce the impact on gross profit and net earnings from sales and purchases denominated in foreign currencies, and to reduce the impact on our net earnings of foreign currency fluctuations on receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies that are different than the subsidiaries’ functional currency.
We are primarily exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to transactions and net assets denominated in Euros, Pounds Sterling, Indian Rupee, South African Rand, Singapore Dollars, Chinese Yuan, Polish Zloty, and New Taiwan Dollars.
We had forward contracts outstanding as of April 30, 2019, denominated in Euros, Pounds Sterling and New Taiwan Dollars with set maturity dates ranging from May 2019 through April 2020.
The contract amounts, expressed at forward rates in U.S. Dollars at April 30, 2019, were $24.9 million for Euros, $9.5 million for Pounds Sterling and $26.0 million for New Taiwan Dollars.
The majority of these deferred losses will be recorded as an adjustment to Cost of sales and service in periods through April 2020, when the corresponding inventory that is the subject of the related hedge contracts is sold, as described above.
We designated this forward contract as a hedge of our net investment in Euro denominated assets.
The forward method requires all changes in the fair value of the contract to be reported as a cumulative translation adjustment in Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, in the same manner as the underlying hedged net assets.
As of April 30, 2019, we had $804,000 of realized gains and $72,000 of unrealized gains, net of tax, recorded as cumulative translation adjustments in Accumulated other comprehensive loss related to this forward contract.
These derivative instruments are not designated as hedges under the FASB guidance and, as a result, changes in their fair value are reported currently as Other income (expense), net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income consistent with the transaction gain or loss on the related receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies.
We had forward contracts outstanding as of April 30, 2019, denominated in Euros, South African Rand, and New Taiwan Dollar with set maturity dates ranging from May 2019 through April 2020.
The contract amounts, expressed at forward rates in U.S. Dollars at April 30, 2019, totaled $61.4 million.
In March 2016, we adopted the Hurco Companies, Inc. 2016 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2016 Equity Plan”), which allows us to grant awards of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, stock units and other stock-based awards.
The total number of shares of our common stock that may be issued pursuant to awards under the 2016 Equity Plan is 856,048, which includes 386,048 shares remaining available for future grants under the 2008 Plan as of March 10, 2016, the date our shareholders approved the 2016 Equity Plan.
The Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors has the authority to determine the officers, directors and key employees who will be granted awards under the 2016 Equity Plan; designate the number of shares subject to each award; determine the terms and conditions upon which awards will be granted; and prescribe the form and terms of award agreements.
We have granted restricted shares and performance stock units under the 2016 Equity Plan that are currently outstanding, and we have granted stock options under the 2008 Plan that are currently outstanding.
No stock option may be exercised more than ten years after the date of grant or such shorter period as the Compensation Committee may determine at the date of grant.
The market value of a share of our common stock, for purposes of the 2016 Equity Plan, is the closing sale price as reported by the Nasdaq Global Select Market on the date in question or, if not a trading day, on the last preceding trading date.
On March 14, 2019, the Compensation Committee granted a total of 11,824 shares of time-based restricted stock to our non-employee directors.
The restricted shares vest in full one year from the date of grant provided the recipient remains on the board of directors through that date.
The grant date fair value of the restricted shares was based on the closing sales price of our common stock on the grant date, which was $40.58 per share.
On January 2, 2019, the Compensation Committee determined the degree to which the long-term incentive compensation arrangement approved for the fiscal 2016-2018 performance period was attained, and the resulting payout level relative to the target amount for each of the metrics that were established by the Compensation Committee in 2016.
As a result, the Compensation Committee determined that a total of 32,559 performance shares were earned by our executive officers, which performance shares vested on January 2, 2019.
The vesting date fair value of the performance shares was based on the closing sales price of our common stock on the vesting date, which was $36.08 per share.
On January 2, 2019, the Compensation Committee also approved a long-term incentive compensation arrangement for our executive officers in the form of restricted shares and performance stock units (“PSUs”) under the 2016 Equity Plan, which will be payable in shares of our common stock if earned and vested.
On that date, the Compensation Committee granted a total of 21,825 shares of time-based restricted stock to our executive officers.
The restricted shares vest in thirds over three years from the date of grant provided the recipient remains employed through that date.
The grant date fair value of the restricted shares was based upon the closing sales price of our common stock on the date of grant, which was $36.08 per share.
On January 2, 2019, the Compensation Committee also granted a total target number of 30,943 PSUs to our executive officers designated as “PSU – TSR”.
These PSUs were weighted as approximately 40% of the overall 2019 executive long-term incentive compensation arrangement and will vest and be paid based upon the total shareholder return of our common stock over the three-year period of fiscal 2019-2021, relative to the total shareholder return of the companies in a specified peer group over that period.
The grant date fair value of the PSUs – TSR was $40.72 per PSU and was calculated using the Monte Carlo approach.
On January 2, 2019, the Compensation Committee also granted a total target number of 30,557 PSUs to our executive officers designated as “PSU – ROIC”.
These PSUs were weighted as approximately 35% of the overall 2019 executive long-term incentive compensation arrangement and will vest and be paid based upon the achievement of pre-established goals related to our average return on invested capital over the three-year period of fiscal 2019-2021.
The grant date fair value of the PSUs – ROIC was based on the closing sales price of our common stock on the grant date, which was $36.08 per share.
On November 14, 2018, the Compensation Committee granted a total of 7,200 shares of time-based restricted stock to our non-executive employees.
The restricted shares vest in thirds over three years from the date of grant provided the recipient remains employed through that date.
The grant date fair value of the restricted shares was based upon the closing sales price of our common stock on the date of grant, which was $40.01 per share.
During the first six months of fiscal 2019 and 2018, we recorded $1.4 million and $1.2 million, respectively, of stock-based compensation expense related to grants under the 2008 Plan and the 2016 Equity Plan.
As of April 30, 2019, there was an estimated $5.2 million of total unrecognized stock-based compensation cost that we expect to recognize by the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2022.
From time to time, our subsidiaries guarantee third party payment obligations in connection with the sale of machines to customers that use financing.
The 2018 Credit Agreement provides that the maximum amount of outstanding letters of credit at any one time may not exceed $10.0 million, the maximum amount of outstanding loans made to our subsidiary Hurco B.V. at any one time may not exceed $20.0 million, and the maximum amount of all outstanding loans denominated in alternative currencies at any one time may not exceed $20.0 million.
The 2018 Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants and events of default, including covenants (1) restricting us from making certain investments, loans, advances and acquisitions (but permitting us to make investments in subsidiaries of up to $10.0 million); (2) restricting us from making certain payments, including cash dividends, except that we may pay cash dividends as long as immediately before and after giving effect to such payment, the sum of the unused amount of the commitments under the 2018 Credit Agreement plus our cash on hand is not less than $10.0 million, and as long as we are not in default before and after giving effect to such dividend payments; (3) requiring that we maintain a minimum working capital of $125.0 million; and (4) requiring that we maintain a minimum tangible net worth of $170.0 million.
As a result, as of April 30, 2019, our existing credit facilities consist of our €1.5 million revolving credit facility in Germany, the 150 million New Taiwan Dollars Taiwan credit facility, the 32.5 million Chinese Yuan China credit facility and the $40.0 million revolving credit facility under the 2018 Credit Agreement.
Included in Level 2 fair value measurements are derivative assets and liabilities related to gains and losses on foreign currency forward exchange contracts entered into with a third party.
We estimate the fair value of these derivatives on a recurring basis using foreign currency exchange rates obtained from active markets.
We have derivative financial instruments in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts as described in Note 3 of Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.


item2.txt
For example, when the U.S. Dollar weakens in value relative to a foreign currency, sales made, and expenses incurred, in that currency when translated to U.S. Dollars for reporting in our financial statements, are higher than would be the case when the U.S. Dollar is stronger.
In the comparison of our period-to-period results, we discuss the effect of currency translation on those results, which reflect translation to U.S. Dollars at exchange rates prevailing during the period covered by those financial statements.
Sales and service fees for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 were $70.7 million, an increase of $250,000, or less than 1%, compared to the corresponding prior year period and included an unfavorable currency impact of $3.0 million, or 4%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
Sales in the Americas for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 increased by 10%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
The increase in sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was primarily attributable to sales of vertical milling machines from a U.S. machine tool distributor acquired by Hurco in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 located in California, one of the largest machine tool markets in the U.S., and increased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi vertical milling machines in the U.S. European sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 were relatively unchanged compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included an unfavorable currency impact of 7%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes, which was largely offset by increased sales of Hurco vertical milling machines in Germany.
Asian Pacific sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased by 17%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
The decrease in Asian Pacific sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was primarily attributable to decreased shipments of Hurco vertical milling machines and Takumi bridge mill machines in China and an unfavorable currency impact of 2% when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
Sales of computerized machine tools decreased slightly for the second quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included an unfavorable currency impact of 4% when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
Sales of computer control systems and software increased by 9%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, due mainly to an increase in aftermarket software sales in France.
Sales of service parts and service fees increased in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 by 4% and 5%, respectively, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
Orders for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 were $67.2 million, a decrease of $12.7 million, or 16%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included an unfavorable currency impact of $2.6 million, or 3%, when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars.
Orders in the Americas for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased by 3%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, due primarily to decreased customer demand in the U.S. for vertical milling machines, partially offset by an increase in orders for vertical milling machines by the newly acquired distributor.
European orders for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased by 20%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included an unfavorable currency impact of 5% when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars.
The year-over-year decrease in European orders was driven primarily by decreased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi vertical milling machines.
Asian Pacific orders for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased by 22%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included an unfavorable currency impact of 2% when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars.
Selling, general and administrative expenses for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 were $14.1 million, or 20% of sales, compared to $13.3 million, or 19% of sales, in the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included a favorable currency impact of $503,000 when translating foreign expenses to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
Operating income for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was $7.5 million, compared to $6.0 million for the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
The increase in operating income year-over-year was driven primarily by an increased sales mix of larger, higher-priced vertical milling machine sales.
Other Income (Expense), Net. Other income (expense) in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 increased by $0.6 million from the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, due primarily to the net realized and unrealized losses from foreign currency fluctuations on payables and receivables, net of foreign currency forward exchange contracts.
The effective tax rate for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was 32%, compared to 31% in the corresponding prior year period.
Sales and service fees for the first six months of fiscal 2019 were $144.9 million, an increase of $6.0 million, or 4%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included an unfavorable currency impact of $5.7 million, or 4%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
Sales of computerized machine tools for the first six months of fiscal 2019 increased by 4%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included an unfavorable currency impact of 4% when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
The increase in sales was primarily attributable to sales of vertical milling machines by the newly acquired distributor.
Sales of computer control systems and software increased by 15%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, due mainly to an increase in aftermarket software sales in France.
Sales of service parts and service fees increased in the first six months of fiscal 2019 by 10% and 6%, respectively, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
Orders for the first six months of fiscal 2019 were $135.2 million, a decrease of $21.6 million, or 14%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included an unfavorable currency impact of $5.2 million, or 3%, when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars.
Orders in the Americas for the first six months of fiscal 2019 increased by 9%, with such increase primarily attributable to orders for vertical milling machines by the newly acquired distributor and increased customer demand for Hurco vertical milling machines in the U.S. European orders for the first six months of fiscal 2019 decreased by 22%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, and included an unfavorable currency impact of 5% when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars.
The year-over-year decrease in orders was driven primarily by decreased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi vertical milling machines, as well as a decrease in customer demand for electro-mechanical components and accessories manufactured by our wholly-owned subsidiary, LCM.
Asian Pacific orders for the first six months of fiscal 2019 decreased by 20%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, and included an unfavorable currency impact of 4%, when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars.
Gross profit for the first six months of fiscal 2019 was $43.8 million, or 30% of sales, compared to $39.4 million, or 28% of sales, for the corresponding prior year period.
Operating income for the first six months of fiscal 2019 was $15.8 million, compared to $13.1 million for the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
The increase in operating income year-over-year was driven primarily by an increased sales mix of larger, higher-priced vertical milling machine sales.
Other Income (Expense), Net. Other income (expense) in the first six months of fiscal 2019 increased by $1.0 million from the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, due primarily to the net realized and unrealized losses from foreign currency fluctuations on payables and receivables, net of foreign currency forward exchange contracts.
The effective tax rate for the first six months of fiscal 2019 was 29%, compared to 48% in the corresponding prior year period.
The year-over-year decrease in the effective tax rate for the first six months was primarily due to one-time charges of $2.9 million related to the Tax Reform Act recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.


item3.txt
We enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts from time to time to hedge the cash flow risk related to forecasted inter-company sales and purchases denominated in, or based on, foreign currencies (primarily the Euro, Pound Sterling, and New Taiwan Dollar).
We also enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to protect against the effects of foreign currency fluctuations on receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies.
We also enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to hedge a portion of our net investment denominated in Euros.


part2.txt
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


