Item 1. Financial Statements.
See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Note 1 - Background and Basis of Presentation
Edgewell Personal Care Company, and its subsidiaries (collectively, "Edgewell" or the "Company"), is one of the world's largest manufacturers and marketers of personal care products in the wet shave, sun and skin care, feminine care and infant care categories. Edgewell has a portfolio of over 25 brands and a global footprint in more than 50 countries. 
•Sun and Skin Care consists of Banana Boat® and Hawaiian Tropic® sun care products, Bulldog® and Jack Black® men's skin care products, Wet Ones® wipes and Playtex® household gloves until the sale of the gloves business in October 2017. Refer to Note 2 for additional details regarding the acquisition of Jack Black, L.L.C. ("Jack Black") and Note 3 for additional details on the sale of the Playtex household gloves business.
Basis of Presentation
Acquisition of Jack Black. On March 1, 2018, the Company completed the acquisition of Jack Black, a luxury men's skincare products company based in the United States. The results of Jack Black for the post-acquisition period are included within the Company's results for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018. For more information on the acquisition, see Note 2 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
In March 2016, the FASB issued an ASU which simplifies several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including requiring excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies to be recognized as income tax benefits or expenses in the consolidated statement of earnings. The standard requires cash flows from excess tax benefits and deficiencies, previously classified as a financing activity, to be classified as an operating activity in the consolidated statement of cash flows. The Company adopted these provisions of the guidance prospectively in the first six months of fiscal 2018. As a result, the Company recognized tax deficiencies of $0.6 through income taxes during the first six months of fiscal 2018 rather than additional paid-in capital. The tax deficiencies were recorded as an operating activity in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows during the first six months of fiscal 2018. Also, as part of the adoption, a $9.7 adjustment was recorded to increase retained earnings and deferred tax assets to recognize the cumulative amount of previously unrecognized excess tax benefits as of October 1, 2017. Additionally, the ASU requires the presentation of employee taxes paid when an employer withholds shares for tax withholding purposes to be presented as a financing activity in the statement of cash flows as opposed to as an operating activity. This aspect of the new guidance was required to be adopted retrospectively. As such, $15.5 of cash outflows for tax withholding payments were reclassified from an operating activity to a financing activity in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the first six months of fiscal 2017. Finally, under the ASU, the Company elected to record forfeitures as they occur. This election did not have a material impact on the financial statements.
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements. In May 2014, the FASB issued an ASU which provides a single comprehensive revenue recognition model for all contracts with customers to improve comparability within industries, across industries and across capital markets. During 2016, the FASB issued three ASUs clarifying the revenue recognition implementation guidance on various topics included within the original ASU. The new guidance will be effective for the Company beginning October 1, 2018, with the option of using either a full retrospective or modified retrospective method. The Company is still evaluating the method of adoption.
In August 2016, the FASB issued an ASU intended to address diversity in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows. The amendments provide guidance on specific cash flow issues, including debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs, the sale of accounts receivable, contingent consideration payments on business combinations, proceeds from the settlement of insurance claims and distributions received from equity method investees, among others. The update will be effective for the Company beginning October 1, 2018, with early adoption permitted. The Company is in the process of evaluating the impact the guidance will have on its financial statements.
Note 2 - Acquisition
Jack Black, L.L.C.
On March 1, 2018, the Company completed the acquisition of Jack Black, a men's luxury skincare products company based in the U.S., for $90.3, net of cash acquired. The acquisition creates opportunities to expand Edgewell's personal care portfolio into a growing global category where it can leverage its international geographic footprint. The acquisition was financed through available operating cash. 
The Company has recognized the assets and liabilities of Jack Black based on preliminary estimates of their acquisition date fair values. The determination of the fair values of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities, including goodwill and other intangible assets, requires significant judgment. As of March 31, 2018, this valuation analysis was not complete, including the allocations to goodwill and other intangible assets, and the related deferred tax impacts. The Company expects to complete the valuation no later than the end of fiscal 2018. 
As of March 31, 2018, net assets acquired totaled $93.9 and consisted of working capital and other net assets of $10.2 (including cash of $3.6), other intangible assets of $46.7 and goodwill of $37.0, representing the value of expansion into new markets. Goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes. The intangible assets acquired consisted primarily of the Jack Black trade name, customer relationships and product formulations. Amortization expense for the current period was estimated using a weighted-average useful life of 14.8 years for those assets preliminarily identified as definite-lived; however, the Company is still in the process of evaluating the useful lives of the acquired intangible assets. All assets are included in the Company's Sun and Skin Care segment. 
The Company completed the sale of its Playtex® gloves business to a household products company for $19.0 on October 26, 2017. The sale allows the Company to better focus and utilize its resources on its other product lines. Total assets sold were approximately $3.1, resulting in a pre-tax gain on sale of $15.9.
Note 4 - Restructuring Charges
Project Fuel
In addition to the expected cost savings and improved profitability, Project Fuel is designed to strengthen the Company's challenger culture and reinforce its consumer-centric organizational focus. It is also designed to simplify the organization and streamline ways of working in order to increase competitiveness, speed and agility, and ensure the Company has the skills, capabilities and investments needed to compete in a rapidly changing world. 
The Company incurred restructuring charges of $3.7 related to Project Fuel in the three months ended March 31, 2018. 
In addition, pre-tax costs of $0.1 and $0.4 for the three and six months ended March 31, 2017, associated with obsolescence charges related to the exit of certain non-core product lines as part of the 2013 Restructuring were included in Cost of products sold. 
Restructuring Reserves
Note 5 - Income Taxes
For the three and six months ended March 31, 2018, the Company had income tax expense of $20.7 and $47.1, respectively, on Earnings before income taxes of $85.8 and $118.9, respectively. The effective tax rate for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018 was 24.1% and 39.7%, respectively. The difference between the federal statutory rate and the effective rate for the six months ended March 31, 2018 is primarily due to a $17.4 net transitional charge resulting from the enactment of The Tax Act, as discussed below. 
Note 6 - Earnings per Share
Basic earnings per share is based on the average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share is based on the average number of shares used for the basic earnings per share calculation, adjusted for the dilutive effect of share options and restricted share equivalent ("RSE") awards.
For the three and six months ended March 31, 2018, the calculation of diluted weighted-average shares outstanding excludes 0.6 of share options because the effect of including these awards was anti-dilutive. For the three and six months ended March 31, 2018, the calculation of diluted weighted-average shares outstanding excludes 0.1 of RSE awards because the effect of these awards was anti-dilutive. For the three and six months ended March 31, 2017, the calculation of diluted weighted-average shares outstanding excludes 0.6 of share options because the effect of including these awards was anti-dilutive.
Note 7 - Goodwill and Intangible Assets
Amortization expense was $4.2 and $8.6 for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018, respectively, and $4.1 and $8.1 for the three and six months ended March 31, 2017, respectively. Estimated amortization expense for amortizable intangible assets for the remainder of fiscal 2018 and for fiscal 2019, 2020, 2021, 2022 and 2023 is approximately $9.3, $18.1, $17.5, $16.9, $16.8 and $16.7, respectively, and $182.1 thereafter. Amortizable intangible assets include $15.2 of trade names and brands, $1.2 of technology and patents, and $30.3 of customer related and other as a result of the Jack Black acquisition. The Company is still in the process of evaluating the value and useful lives of these intangible assets. See Note 2 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Jack Black acquisition. 
The Company had indefinite-lived intangible assets of $836.7 ($186.9 in Wet Shave, $476.1 in Sun and Skin Care, $29.9 in Feminine Care and $143.8 in All Other) at March 31, 2018, an increase of $2.8 from September 30, 2017 related to foreign currency translation rates.
Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have an indefinite life are not amortized, but reviewed annually during the fourth fiscal quarter for impairment of value or when indicators of a potential impairment are present. The Company continuously monitors events which could trigger an interim impairment analysis, such as changing business conditions and environmental factors. The Company's stock price has declined since September 30, 2017. A prolonged decrease in the Company's stock price could be an indication of a triggering event. An interim impairment analysis may indicate that carrying amounts of goodwill and other intangible assets require adjustment or that remaining useful lives should be revised. The Company noted there was no indication of a triggering event in the second quarter of fiscal 2018. Refer to the sensitivity analysis in Note 8 to the Company's audited annual consolidated financial statements included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on November 20, 2017.
During fiscal 2017, the Company recorded impairment charges of $312.0 and $7.0 on its Playtex and Edge brand names, respectively. The impairment of Playtex and Edge in fiscal 2017 was the result of intense competition in the Feminine Care and Wet Shave segments which resulted in decreased market share. Based on the impairment taken and continued competitive pressure on the Playtex and Edge brands, the intangible assets associated with the brand names were converted to definite-lived assets as of July 1, 2017 and assigned a useful life of 20 years. The conversion of the Playtex and Edge brand names to definite-lived intangible assets increased amortization expense by $1.8 and $3.6 for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018, respectively.
Note 8 - Supplemental Balance Sheet Information
Note 9 - Accounts Receivable Facility
On September 15, 2017, the Company entered into a $150 uncommitted master accounts receivable purchase agreement with The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., New York Branch, as the purchaser. Transfers under this agreement are accounted for as sales of receivables, resulting in the receivables being de-recognized from the consolidated balance sheet. As of March 31, 2018, the discount rate used to determine the purchase price for the subject receivables is based upon LIBOR plus a margin applicable to the specified obligor.
Account receivables sold under this agreement for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018 were $281.5 and $491.6, respectively. The trade receivables sold that remained outstanding under this agreement as of March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017 were $115.3 and $81.7, respectively. The dilution reserve, which represents the Company's retained interest in sold receivables, was $11.5 and $8.2 as of March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively, and was recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as a receivable. The difference between the carrying amount of the trade receivables sold and the sum of the cash received was recorded as a loss on sale of receivables in Other expense (income), net in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. For the three and six months ended March 31, 2018, the loss on sale of trade receivables was $0.6 and $1.0, respectively.
Note 10 - Debt
The Company had outstanding international borrowings, recorded in Notes payable, of $21.6 and $19.4 as of March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively. 
Note 11 - Retirement Plans
Note 12 - Shareholders' Equity
In January 2018, the Board approved an authorization to repurchase up to 10.0 shares of the Company's common stock, replacing the previous stock repurchase authorization from May 2015. During the six months ended March 31, 2018, the Company repurchased 2.1 shares of its common stock for $124.4, all of which were purchased under the previous authorization from May 2015. The Company has 10.0 shares remaining under the January 2018 Board authorization to repurchase its common shares in the future. Future share repurchases, if any, would be made in the open market, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise, in such amounts and at such times as the Company deems appropriate based upon prevailing market conditions, business needs and other factors. 
During the six months ended March 31, 2018, the Company paid $0.1 in cash dividends related to the vesting of RSE awards, which had been declared and accrued during prior fiscal years. The Company has not declared any dividends since the third quarter of fiscal 2015, and does not currently intend to declare dividends in the foreseeable future. 
Note 13 - Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss
Note 14 - Financial Instruments and Risk Management
At times, the Company enters into contractual arrangements (derivatives) to reduce its exposure to foreign currency risk. The Company has master netting agreements with all of its counterparties that allow for the settlement of contracts in an asset position with contracts in a liability position in the event of default. The Company manages counterparty risk through the utilization of investment grade commercial banks, diversification of counterparties and its counterparty netting arrangements. The section below outlines the types of derivatives that existed at March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017, as well as the Company's objectives and strategies for holding derivative instruments.
Foreign Currency Risk
A significant share of the Company's sales is tied to currencies other than the U.S. dollar, the Company's reporting currency. As such, a weakening of currencies relative to the U.S. dollar can have a negative impact to reported earnings. Conversely, strengthening of currencies relative to the U.S. dollar can improve reported results. The primary currencies to which the Company is exposed include the Euro, the Japanese Yen, the British Pound, the Canadian Dollar, the Czech Koruna and the Australian Dollar.
Additionally, the Company's foreign subsidiaries enter into internal and external transactions that create non-functional currency balance sheet positions at the foreign subsidiary level. These exposures are generally the result of intercompany purchases, intercompany loans and, to a lesser extent, external purchases, and are revalued in the foreign subsidiary's local currency at the end of each period. Changes in the value of the non-functional currency balance sheet positions in relation to the foreign subsidiary's local currency results in an exchange gain or loss recorded in Other (income) expense, net. The primary currency to which the Company's foreign subsidiaries are exposed is the U.S. dollar.
At March 31, 2018, the Company maintained a cash flow hedging program related to foreign currency risk. These derivative instruments have a high correlation to the underlying exposure being hedged and have been deemed highly effective for accounting purposes in offsetting the associated risk.
The Company entered into a series of forward currency contracts to hedge cash flow uncertainty associated with currency fluctuations. These transactions are accounted for as cash flow hedges. The Company had unrealized pre-tax losses of $3.8 and $1.6 at March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively, on these forward currency contracts accounted for as cash flow hedges, which are included in AOCI. Assuming foreign exchange rates versus the U.S. dollar remain at March 31, 2018 levels over the next twelve months, the majority of the pre-tax loss included in AOCI at March 31, 2018 is expected to be included in Other (income) expense, net. Contract maturities for these hedges extend into fiscal 2019. There were 64 open foreign currency contracts at March 31, 2018 with a total notional value of $135.3.
The Company entered into foreign currency derivative contracts which are not designated as cash flow hedges for accounting purposes to hedge balance sheet exposures. Any gains or losses on these contracts are expected to be offset by exchange gains or losses on the underlying exposures, thus they are not subject to significant market risk. The change in estimated fair value of the foreign currency contracts for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018 resulted in losses of $2.6 and $2.8, respectively, and was recorded in Other (income) expense, net. The change in estimated fair value of the foreign currency contracts for the three and six months ended March 31, 2017 resulted in a loss of $2.2 and a gain of $0.4, respectively. There were five open foreign currency derivative contracts which were not designated as cash flow hedges at March 31, 2018, with a total notional value of $59.0.
At March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017, the Company had no level 1 or level 3 financial assets or liabilities, other than pension plan assets.
At March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017, the fair market value of fixed rate long-term debt was $1,089.4 and $1,143.8, respectively, compared to its carrying value of $1,096.3 and $1,095.7, respectively. The estimated fair value of the long-term debt is estimated using yields obtained from independent pricing sources for similar types of borrowing arrangements. The estimated fair value of variable-rate debt, excluding revolving credit facilities, which consists of bank debt, was $185.0 compared to its carrying value of $184.8 and $184.7 at March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively. The estimated fair value is equal to the face value of the debt. The estimated fair value of long-term debt, excluding revolving credit facilities, has been determined based on level 2 inputs. 
Due to the nature of cash and cash equivalents and short-term borrowings, including notes payable, carrying amounts on the balance sheets approximate fair value. Additionally, the carrying amounts of the Company's revolving credit facilities, which are classified as long-term debt on the balance sheet, approximate fair value due to the revolving nature of the balances. The estimated fair value of cash and cash equivalents, short-term borrowings and the revolving credit agreements have been determined based on level 2 inputs.
At March 31, 2018, the estimated fair value of foreign currency contracts is the amount that the Company would receive or pay to terminate the contracts, considering first the quoted market prices of comparable agreements or, in the absence of quoted market prices, factors such as interest rates, currency exchange rates and remaining maturities. The estimated fair value of the deferred compensation liability is determined based upon the quoted market prices of the investment options that are offered under the plan.
Note 15 - Commitments and Contingencies
Segment performance is evaluated based on segment profit, exclusive of general corporate expenses, share-based compensation costs, Jack Black acquisition and integration costs, costs associated with restructuring initiatives, the gain on the sale of the Playtex gloves business and the amortization of intangible assets. Financial items, such as interest income and expense, are managed on a global basis at the corporate level. The exclusion of such charges from segment results reflects management's view on how it evaluates segment performance.
Note 17 - Guarantor and Non-Guarantor Financial Information
The Company's senior notes issued in May 2011 and May 2012 (collectively, the "Notes") are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a joint and several basis by the Company's existing and future direct and indirect domestic subsidiaries that are guarantors of any of the Company's credit agreements or other indebtedness for borrowed money (the "Guarantors"). The Guarantors are 100% owned either directly or indirectly by the Company and jointly and severally guarantee the Company's obligations under the Notes and substantially all of the Company's other outstanding indebtedness. The Company's subsidiaries organized outside of the U.S. and certain domestic subsidiaries which are not guarantors of any of the Company's other indebtedness (collectively, the "Non-Guarantors"), do not guarantee the Notes. The subsidiary guarantee with respect to the Notes is subject to release upon sale of all of the capital stock of the Subsidiary Guarantor; if the guarantee under the Company's credit agreements and other indebtedness for borrowed money is released or discharged (other than due to payment under such guarantee); or when the requirements for legal defeasance are satisfied or the obligations are discharged in accordance with the indenture. 
Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 
Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 
Six Months Ended March 31, 2017
Six Months Ended March 31, 2017 
Item 1. Legal Proceedings. 
Item 1A. Risk Factors.
•actual or perceived disruption of service or reduction in service standards to customers;
•diversion of management attention from ongoing business activities; and
•the failure to maintain employee morale and retain key employees while implementing benefit changes and reductions in the workforce.
