Item 1. Financial Statements (Unaudited).
See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Note 1 - Background and Basis of Presentation
Background
Edgewell Personal Care Company, and its subsidiaries (collectively, “Edgewell” or the “Company”), is one of the world’s largest manufacturers and marketers of personal care products in the wet shave, sun and skin care, feminine care, and infant care categories. Edgewell has a portfolio of over 25 brands and a global footprint in more than 50 countries. 
•Sun and Skin Care consists of Banana Boat® and Hawaiian Tropic® sun care products, Jack Black® and Bulldog® men’s skin care products, Wet Ones® wipes, and, until its sale in October 2017, the Playtex® household gloves business. 
•All Other includes infant care products, such as bottles, cups, and pacifiers, sold under the Playtex, OrthoPro® and Binky® brand names, as well as the Diaper Genie® and Litter Genie® disposal systems.
Basis of Presentation
Statement of Cash Flows Presentation. Certain amounts within Cash Flows from Operating Activities for the six months ended March 31, 2018 have been reclassified to conform with the current period presentation. Net cash (used by) from operating activities for the six months ended March 31, 2018 was not impacted by this change.
Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements. In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued an Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) which provides a single comprehensive revenue recognition model for all contracts with customers to improve comparability within industries, across industries, and across capital markets. During 2016, the FASB issued three ASUs clarifying the revenue recognition implementation guidance on various topics included within the original ASU. The Company adopted the ASU for revenue recognition beginning October 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method. Revenues are primarily generated from the sale of finished products to customers. Those sales predominantly contain a single delivery element and revenue is recognized at a single point in time when ownership, risks, and rewards transfer. As a result, the adoption of the ASU did not have a material impact on the timing of revenue recognition. The adoption resulted in the recognition of a $5.3 inventory return asset included in Other current assets on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of October 1, 2018 with an offsetting increase to the returns reserve in Other current liabilities. The adoption resulted in the recognition of a $1.3 liability for advanced payments from customers in Other current liabilities with a corresponding increase to Trade receivables to reclassify advanced payments from customers from contra-Trade receivables as of October 1, 2018. Refer to Note 2 in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. 
In August 2016, the FASB issued an ASU intended to address diversity in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows. The amendments provide guidance on specific cash flow issues, including debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs, the sale of accounts receivable, contingent consideration payments on business combinations, proceeds from the settlement of insurance claims, and distributions received from equity method investees, among others. The Company adopted the ASU beginning October 1, 2018. The Company noted that the adoption of the ASU resulted in the reclassification of approximately $5.0 and $5.3 in operating cash inflows for the six months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, associated with the $150 uncommitted master accounts receivable purchase agreement entered into on September 15, 2017 with The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., New York Branch, as the purchaser (the “Accounts Receivable Facility”) to investing cash inflows in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
In October 2016, the FASB issued an ASU intended to improve the accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory. Under the new guidance, an entity should recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory, such as intellectual property and property, plant, and equipment, when the transfer occurs. The Company adopted the standard beginning October 1, 2018. The impact of the adoption of the ASU resulted in the recognition of a deferred tax asset and a credit to retained earnings of $3.9.
In May 2017, the FASB issued an ASU that clarifies the scope of accounting for modifications of share-based payment awards. The amendments provide guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting. The Company adopted the ASU beginning October 1, 2018 and noted that the impact on its financial statements was not material.
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements. In February 2016, the FASB issued an ASU which amends existing lease accounting guidance to require recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet for leases previously classified as operating leases. Additionally, this update requires qualitative disclosure along with specific quantitative disclosures. Lessees and lessors will be required to recognize and measure leases at the beginning of the earliest period presented using a modified retrospective approach. The update will be effective for the Company beginning October 1, 2019, with early adoption permitted. The Company has begun assessing the impact of the standard, including identification of the lease portfolio and business process changes required to correctly apply the guidance. The Company currently does not expect to early adopt this guidance and is in the process of evaluating its impact on the financial statements; however, the Company anticipates the primary impacts will be a material increase in both assets and liabilities to include operating leases on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Note 2 - Revenue Recognition
On October 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2014-09 which provided guidance for accounting for revenue from contracts with customers. The Company adopted the standard beginning October 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method and applied the standard to contracts not completed at the adoption date. No adjustment to retained earnings was required on October 1, 2018. The adoption resulted in changes to how the Company reflects returns and advanced payments received from customers on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Results for periods ending after October 1, 2018 are recognized and presented in accordance with the new standard, while prior period amounts have not been adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with the prior accounting guidance.
Principal Revenue Streams and Significant Judgments
Performance Obligations
The Company’s revenue is from the sale of its products. Revenue is recognized when the customer obtains control of the goods, which occurs when the ability to use and obtain benefits from the goods are passed to the customer, most commonly upon the delivery of goods to the customer. Discounts are offered to customers for early payment and an estimate of the discounts is recorded as a reduction of Net sales in the same period as the sale. The Company’s standard sales terms are final and returns or exchanges are not permitted with the exception of end of season returns for Sun Care products. Reserves are established and recorded in cases where the right of return does exist for a particular sale.
Significant Judgments
In addition, the Company offers a variety of programs, such as consumer coupons and rebate programs, primarily to its retail customers, designed to promote sales of its products. Such programs require periodic payments and allowances based on estimated results of specific programs and are recorded as a reduction to Net sales. The Company accrues, at the time of sale, the estimated total payments and allowances associated with each transaction. Additionally, the Company offers programs directly to consumers to promote the sale of its products. Promotions which reduce the ultimate consumer sale prices are recorded as a reduction of Net sales at the time the promotional offer is made using estimated redemption and participation levels. Taxes the Company collects on behalf of governmental authorities, which are generally included in the price to the customer, are also recorded as a reduction of Net sales. The Company continually assesses the adequacy of accruals for customer and consumer promotional program costs not yet paid. To the extent total program payments differ from estimates, adjustments may be necessary. Historically, these adjustments have not been material.
Note 3 - Business Combinations and Divestitures
Jack Black, L.L.C.
On March 1, 2018, the Company completed the acquisition of Jack Black, L.L.C. (“Jack Black”), a men’s luxury skincare products company based in the U.S., for $90.2, net of cash acquired. The acquisition creates opportunities to expand the Company’s personal care portfolio into a growing global category where it can leverage its international geographic footprint. The acquisition was financed through available operating cash. 
The Company has recognized the assets and liabilities of Jack Black based on estimates of their acquisition date fair values. The determination of the fair values of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities, including goodwill and other intangible assets, requires significant judgment. The Company completed the final fair value determination during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018.
At March 1, 2018, the opening balance sheet for Jack Black included net assets acquired of $93.9 and consisted of working capital and other net assets of $11.9 (including cash of $3.7), other intangible assets of $47.7 and goodwill of $34.3, representing the value of expansion into new markets. Goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes. The intangible assets acquired consisted primarily of the Jack Black trade name, customer relationships and product formulations with a weighted average useful life of 17 years. All assets are included in the Company’s Sun and Skin Care segment. 
On October 3, 2017, the Company entered into an agreement to sell its Playtex gloves business to a household products company (the “Acquirer”) for $19.0 to allow the Company to better focus and utilize its resources on its other product lines. The agreement also provided the Acquirer with indefinite and exclusive worldwide rights to the Playtex trademark for gloves. The sale was completed on October 26, 2017. Total assets sold were approximately $3.1 resulting in a pre-tax gain on sale of $15.9 in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. The gain on sale of Playtex gloves recognized for fiscal year 2018 was $15.3.
Note 4 - Restructuring Charges
Project Fuel
In February 2018, the Company announced Project Fuel, an enterprise-wide transformational initiative that is designed to address all aspects of the Company’s business and cost structure, simplifying and transforming the organization, structure, and key processes that will provide the necessary catalyst for further re-investment in the Company’s growth objectives while enabling the Company to achieve its desired future state operations. 
Note 6 - Earnings per Share
Basic earnings per share is based on the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share is based on the number of shares used for the basic earnings per share calculation, adjusted for the dilutive effect of share options and restricted share equivalent (“RSE”) awards.
For the three and six months ended March 31, 2019, the calculation of diluted weighted-average shares outstanding excludes 0.5 of share options because the effect of including these awards was anti-dilutive. For the three and six months ended March 31, 2019, the calculation of diluted weighted-average shares outstanding excludes 0.1 of RSE awards because the effect of these awards was anti-dilutive. For the three and six months ended March 31, 2018, the calculation of diluted weighted-average shares outstanding excludes 0.6 of share options because the effect of including these awards was anti-dilutive. For the three and six months ended March 31, 2018, the calculation of diluted weighted-average shares outstanding excludes 0.1 of RSE awards because the effect of these awards was anti-dilutive. 
Note 7 - Goodwill and Intangible Assets
Balances at October 1, 2018 and March 31, 2019 are net of accumulated goodwill impairment losses in the All Other segment totaling $24.4. 
Amortization expense was $4.5 and $9.0 for the three and six months ended March 31, 2019, respectively, and $4.2 and $8.6 for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018, respectively. Estimated amortization expense for amortizable intangible assets for the remainder of fiscal 2019 and for fiscal 2020, 2021, 2022, 2023, and 2024 is $8.7, $17.1, $16.5, $16.4, $16.3, and $16.2, respectively, and $167.2 thereafter. 
The Company had indefinite-lived intangible assets of $828.9 ($179.6 in Wet Shave, $475.6 in Sun and Skin Care, $29.9 in Feminine Care, and $143.8 in All Other) at March 31, 2019, a decrease of $2.6 from September 30, 2018, resulting from changes in foreign currency translation rates. The Company had indefinite-lived trade names and brands of $831.5 ($182.2 in Wet Shave, $475.6 in Sun and Skin Care, $29.9 in Feminine Care, and $143.8 in All Other) at September 30, 2018.
Note 8 - Supplemental Balance Sheet Information
Note 9 - Accounts Receivable Facility
As of March 31, 2019, the discount rate used to determine the purchase price for the subject receivables is based upon LIBOR plus a margin applicable to the specified obligor.
Accounts receivables sold under this agreement were $232.1 and $446.0 for the three and six months ended March 31, 2019, respectively, and $281.5 and $491.6 for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018, respectively. The trade receivables sold that remained outstanding under this agreement as of March 31, 2019 and September 30, 2018 were $107.9 and $77.9, respectively. The net proceeds received were included in cash provided by operating activities and cash provided by investing activities on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. The difference between the carrying amount of the trade receivables sold and the sum of the cash received is recorded as a loss on sale of receivables in Other expense (income), net in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. The loss on sale of trade receivables was $0.7 and $1.3 for the three and six months ended March 31, 2019, respectively, and the loss on sale of trade receivables was $0.6 and $1.0 for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018, respectively. 
Note 10 - Debt
On February 6, 2019, the Company made a $185.0 prepayment to retire its term loan due April 2019 (the “Term Loan”). The Company funded the payment through additional borrowing on its U.S. revolving credit facility. The Company had outstanding, variable-rate international borrowings, recorded in Notes payable, of $13.9 and $8.2 as of March 31, 2019 and September 30, 2018, respectively. 
Note 11 - Retirement Plans
Note 12 - Shareholders’ Equity
The Company has not declared any dividends since the third quarter of fiscal 2015 and does not currently intend to declare dividends in the foreseeable future. 
Note 13 - Accumulated Other Comprehensive (Loss) Income
Note 14 - Financial Instruments and Risk Management
At times, the Company enters into contractual arrangements (also referred to as derivatives), to reduce its exposure to foreign currency. The Company has master netting agreements with all of its counterparties that allow for the settlement of contracts in an asset position with contracts in a liability position in the event of default. The Company manages counterparty risk through the utilization of investment grade commercial banks, diversification of counterparties, and its counterparty netting arrangements. The section below outlines the types of derivatives that existed at March 31, 2019 and September 30, 2018, as well as the Company’s objectives and strategies for holding derivative instruments.
Foreign Currency Risk
A significant share of the Company’s sales is tied to currencies other than the U.S. dollar, the Company’s reporting currency. As such, a weakening of currencies relative to the U.S. dollar can have a negative impact on reported earnings. Conversely, strengthening of currencies relative to the U.S. dollar can improve reported results. The primary currencies to which the Company is exposed include the euro, the Japanese yen, the British pound, the Canadian dollar, and the Australian dollar.
At March 31, 2019, the Company maintained a cash flow hedging program related to foreign currency risk. These derivative instruments had a high correlation to the underlying exposure being hedged and were deemed highly effective for accounting purposes in offsetting the associated risk.
The Company entered into a series of forward currency contracts to hedge cash flow uncertainty associated with currency fluctuations. These transactions are accounted for as cash flow hedges. The Company had unrealized pre-tax gains of $2.4 and $3.9 at March 31, 2019 and September 30, 2018, respectively, on these forward currency contracts, which are accounted for as cash flow hedges, and are included in AOCI. Assuming foreign exchange rates versus the U.S. dollar remain at March 31, 2019 levels over the next 12 months, the majority of the pre-tax gain included in AOCI at March 31, 2019 is expected to be included in Other income, net. Contract maturities for these hedges extend into fiscal 2020. At March 31, 2019, there were 61 open foreign currency contracts with a total notional value of $125.3.
The Company entered into foreign currency derivative contracts which are not designated as cash flow hedges for accounting purposes to hedge balance sheet exposures. Any gains or losses on these contracts are expected to be offset by exchange gains or losses on the underlying exposures and thus are not subject to significant market risk. The change in estimated fair value of the foreign currency contracts for the three and six months ended March 31, 2019 resulted in a gain of $0.7 and a loss of $0.6, respectively, compared to losses of $2.6 and $2.8 for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018, and was recorded in Other income, net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings. At March 31, 2019, there were six open foreign currency derivative contracts not designated as cash flow hedges, with a total notional value of $55.8.
At March 31, 2019, the estimated fair value of foreign currency contracts is the amount that the Company would receive or pay to terminate the contracts, considering first the quoted market prices of comparable agreements or, in the absence of quoted market prices, factors such as interest rates, currency exchange rates, and remaining maturities. The estimated fair value of the deferred compensation liability is determined based upon the quoted market prices of the investment options that are offered under the plan. 
At March 31, 2019 and September 30, 2018, the Company had no Level 1 or Level 3 financial assets or liabilities, other than pension plan assets.
At March 31, 2019 and September 30, 2018, the fair market value of fixed rate long-term debt was $1,053.2 and $1,061.2, respectively, compared to its carrying value of $1,100.0 and $1,100.0, respectively. The estimated fair value of the long-term debt was estimated using yields obtained from independent pricing sources for similar types of borrowing arrangements. There was no variable rate debt excluding revolving credit facilities as of March 31, 2019. The estimated fair value of variable-rate debt, which consists of bank debt and excludes revolving credit facilities, was $185.0 at September 30, 2018 compared to its carrying value of $184.9 at September 30, 2018. The estimated fair value was equal to the face value of the debt. The estimated fair value of long-term debt, excluding revolving credit facilities, have been determined based on Level 2 inputs. 
Due to the nature of cash and cash equivalents and short-term borrowings, including notes payable, carrying amounts on the balance sheets approximate fair value. Additionally, the carrying amounts of the Company’s revolving credit facilities, which are classified as long-term debt on the balance sheet, approximate fair value due to the revolving nature of the balances. The estimated fair value of cash and cash equivalents, short-term borrowings, and the revolving credit agreements have been determined based on Level 2 inputs.
For an overview of the Company’s segments, refer to Note 1 to Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Company's senior notes issued in May 2011 and May 2012 (collectively, the "Notes") are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a joint and several basis by the Company's existing and future direct and indirect domestic subsidiaries that are guarantors of any of the Company's credit agreements or other indebtedness for borrowed money (the "Guarantors"). The Guarantors are 100% owned either directly or indirectly by the Company and jointly and severally guarantee the Company's obligations under the Notes and substantially all of the Company's other outstanding indebtedness. The Company's subsidiaries organized outside of the U.S. and certain domestic subsidiaries which are not guarantors of any of the Company's other indebtedness (collectively, the "Non-Guarantors"), do not guarantee the Notes. The subsidiary guarantee with respect to the Notes is subject to release upon sale of all of the capital stock of the Subsidiary Guarantor; if the guarantee under the Company's credit agreements and other indebtedness for borrowed money is released or discharged (other than due to payment under such guarantee); or when the requirements for legal defeasance are satisfied or the obligations are discharged in accordance with the indenture.
Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 
Six Months Ended March 31, 2019 
Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 
Six Months Ended March 31, 2018 
Six Months Ended March 31, 2019 
Six Months Ended March 31, 2018 
On May 8, 2019, the Company entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (“Merger Agreement”) to acquire Harry’s, Inc., an innovative shaving retailer, for total consideration of approximately $1,370.0 in cash and stock, subject to adjustment pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement. Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, Harry’s Inc. will become a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company (the “Merger”). The consummation of the Merger is subject to customary closing conditions and is expected to close by the end of the first quarter of calendar 2020, subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions and receipt of regulatory clearance.
