•We analyze our net sales and segment profit on an organic basis to better measure the comparability of results between periods. Organic net sales and segment profit exclude the impact of changes in foreign currency, acquisitions and dispositions. This information is provided because these types of fluctuations can distort the underlying change in net sales and segment profit either positively or negatively. For the three and six months ended March 31, 2018, the impact of acquisitions includes net sales and segment profit activity for Jack Black, which was acquired in March 2018. For the six months ended March 31, 2018, the impact of acquisitions also includes October 2017 net sales and segment profit for Bulldog Skincare Holdings Limited (“Bulldog”), which was acquired in October 2016.
•Adjusted net earnings and adjusted earnings per share are defined as net earnings and diluted earnings per share excluding items such as Jack Black integration costs, restructuring charges, the gain on the disposition of the gloves business, the related tax effects of these items and the impact of the Tax Act.
•Free cash flow is defined as operating cash flows less any capital expenditures in current year.
All comparisons are with the same period in the prior year, unless otherwise noted.
Retail sales for purposes of market size, market position and market share information are based on retail sales in United States ("U.S.") dollars.
Trademarks and Trade Names. We own or have rights to use trademarks and trade names that we use in conjunction with the operation of our business, which appear throughout this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We also may refer to brand names, trademarks, service marks and trade names of other companies and organizations, and these brand names, trademarks, service marks and trade names are the property of their respective owners.
•Our inability to execute a successful e-commerce strategy could have a significant impact on our business.
•Our business is subject to increasing global regulation, including product related regulations and environmental regulations, that may expose us to significant liabilities.
•Our access to capital markets and borrowing capacity could be limited.
•Impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets would result in a reduction in net income.
•Our business is subject to seasonal volatility.
•We do not expect to pay dividends for the foreseeable future.
•Our financial results could be adversely impacted by the United Kingdom's departure from the European Union.
•We may not be able to attract, retain and develop key personnel.
Overview
Edgewell Personal Care Company, and its subsidiaries (collectively, "Edgewell"), is one of the world's largest manufacturers and marketers of personal care products in the wet shave, sun and skin care, feminine care and infant care categories. We have a portfolio of over 25 brands and a broad global footprint that operates in more than 50 countries. 
•Sun and Skin Care consists of Banana Boat® and Hawaiian Tropic® sun care products, Bulldog® and Jack Black® men's skin care products, Wet Ones® wipes and Playtex® household gloves until the sale of the gloves business in October 2017. Refer to Note 2 of our Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details regarding the acquisition of Jack Black and Note 3 of our Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details on the sale of the Playtex household gloves business.
The personal care product categories are highly competitive, both in the U.S. and on a global basis, as large manufacturers with global operations compete for consumer acceptance and, increasingly, limited retail shelf space. Competition is based upon brand perception, product performance, customer service and price. The markets are generally characterized by the frequent introduction of new products, accompanied by major advertising and promotional programs. Our priority is to deliver our strategic objectives, focusing on maximizing sales and profit growth through innovation, product line extensions and share gains, and we continue to target improved working capital management as a key business objective.
Significant Events
Acquisitions
On March 1, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Jack Black, a leading U.S. based luxury men's skincare products company based in the United States, for approximately $90.3, net of cash acquired. The acquisition will create opportunities to expand our personal care portfolio in growing categories in the U.S. and globally, while nurturing the brand equity of Jack Black. The results of Jack Black for the post-acquisition period are included within the Company's results for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018. Refer to Note 2 of our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion related to the acquisition of Jack Black.
On October 31, 2016, we completed the acquisition of Bulldog, a men's grooming and skincare products company based in the United Kingdom for $34.0, net of cash acquired. The acquisition created opportunities to expand our personal care portfolio into a growing global category where we can leverage our international geographic footprint. The acquisition was financed through available foreign cash. The results of Bulldog for the post-acquisition period are included within our results for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018 and 2017.
Project Fuel
In February 2018, we launched Project Fuel, an enterprise-wide transformational initiative designed to address all aspects of our business and cost structure. The project will incorporate our existing ZBS and global productivity initiatives and will include a new global restructuring initiative. While we are incurring costs for Project Fuel beginning in fiscal 2018, the majority of costs and savings under Project Fuel are expected to take place during fiscal 2019 through fiscal 2021.
In addition to the expected cost savings and improved profitability, Project Fuel is designed to strengthen our challenger culture and reinforce our consumer-centric organizational focus. It is also designed to simplify the organization and streamline ways of working in order to increase competitiveness, speed and agility, and ensure we have the skills, capabilities and investments needed to compete in a rapidly changing world. 
For further information on our restructuring projects, see Note 4 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
We completed the sale the Playtex® gloves business to a household products company for $19.0 on October 26, 2017. The sale allows us to better focus and utilize resources on other product lines. Total assets sold were approximately $3.1 resulting in a pre-tax gain on sale of $15.9.
Following is a summary of key results for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018. Net earnings and earnings per share ("EPS") for the time periods presented were impacted by the acquisition of Jack Black, the gain on the sale of the Playtex gloves business, restructuring activities, the related tax impact from those costs and the impact of the Tax Act as described in the table below. The impact of these items on reported net earnings and EPS are provided as a reconciliation of net earnings and EPS to adjusted net earnings and adjusted diluted EPS, which are Non-GAAP measures.
The following table presents changes in net sales for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018, as compared to the corresponding periods in fiscal 2017, and provides a reconciliation of organic net sales to reported amounts.
Net Sales
For the second quarter of fiscal 2018, net sales were $608.1, a 0.5% decrease when compared with the prior year period. Excluding the impact of acquisitions, the Playtex gloves sale and currency movements, organic net sales decreased 3.4% versus the prior year period. From a geographic perspective, organic net sales in North America declined 7%, while increasing 4% in total International markets. Volumes were lower in North America Wet Shave, Infant Care and Feminine Care, offset in part by higher volumes in global Sun and Skin Care and International Wet Shave. Price mix was unfavorable in the quarter due to higher Sun Care returns and an increase in Wet Shave promotional spend in North America. 
For the first six months of fiscal 2018, net sales decreased 1.8%. Excluding the impact of acquisitions, the Playtex gloves sale and currency movements, organic net sales decreased 4.2% versus the prior year period. From a geographic perspective, organic net sales in North America declined 7%, while increasing 1% in total International markets. The decline in organic net sales was primarily due to declines in Wet Shave, primarily in North America, driven by competitive pressure and category declines and Feminine Care volume declines, partially offset by growth in Skin Care in Bulldog and Wet Ones. 
For further discussion regarding net sales, including a summary of reported versus organic changes, see "Segment Results."
Gross profit was $302.1 during the second quarter of fiscal 2018, as compared to $309.6 in the prior year period. Gross margin as a percent of net sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 was 49.7%, representing a 100 basis point decline over the prior year gross margin of 50.7%, primarily driven by unfavorable price mix due to increased Sun Care returns and higher promotional activity in support of new Wet Shave products. Volume mix negatively impacted margin by 10 basis points, while cost mix had a 30 basis point negative impact, largely driven by unfavorable transactional currency. 
Gross profit was $502.4 during the first six months of fiscal 2018, as compared to $537.6 in the prior year period. Gross margin as a percent of net sales for the first six months of fiscal 2018 was 46.7%, down 240 basis points as compared to the prior year period. The decline was primarily driven by lower sales volumes in Wet Shave and Feminine Care, unfavorable price mix from Wet Shave promotions and Sun Care returns and higher product costs, partially offset by favorable foreign currency impact.
Selling, General and Administrative Expense
Advertising and Sales Promotion Expense
Research and Development Expense
Interest Expense Associated with Debt
Interest expense associated with debt for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 was $18.2, an increase from the prior year period expense of $17.3. For the first six months of fiscal 2018, interest expense was $36.0 compared to $34.7 in the prior year period. The increase in interest expense primarily relates to increased interest rates for variable rate debt. 
Other (Income) Expense, Net
Other (income) expense, net was income of $0.2 during the second quarter of fiscal 2018, compared to income of $6.6 in the second quarter of fiscal 2017. Other (income) expense, net was expense of $2.8 during the first six months of fiscal 2018, compared to income of $8.5 during first six months of fiscal 2017. The current year periods reflect the negative impact of foreign currency exchange contract gains and losses and the revaluation of nonfunctional currency balance sheet exposures.
The effective tax rate for the second quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017 was 24.1% and 26.6%, respectively. The effective tax rate for the first six months of 2018 and 2017 was 39.7% and 26.2%, respectively. The effective tax rate for the first six months of fiscal 2018 includes a $17.4 increase in tax expense related to net charges from the Tax Act, which more than offset the lower U.S. Federal tax rate. Excluding the gain on the sale of the Playtex gloves business, net tax expense from the Tax Act, costs related to the acquisition and integration of Jack Black and restructuring charges, the adjusted effective tax rate was 24.8% and 26.6% for the first six months of fiscal 2018 and 2017, respectively. Our adjusted effective tax rate for fiscal 2018 is expected to be in the range of 22% to 24%; however, the adjusted effective tax rate is dependent upon the mix of earnings in various tax jurisdictions.
Savings Initiatives
Our ZBS initiative was established to capture savings and establish cost-conscious spending policies consistent with our strategic needs. Net cost savings from our ZBS initiative are anticipated to be between $25 to $30 in fiscal 2018, which will be reinvested into marketing spend and our strategic growth initiatives.
In February 2018, we launched Project Fuel, an enterprise-wide transformational initiative designed to address all aspects of our business and cost structure. The project will incorporate our existing ZBS and global productivity initiatives and will include a new global restructuring initiative. While we are incurring costs for Project Fuel beginning in fiscal 2018, the majority of costs and savings under Project Fuel are expected to take place during fiscal 2019 through fiscal 2021.
In the second quarter, Project Fuel costs totaled $3.7 related to severance and consulting charges. For fiscal year 2018, Project Fuel related restructuring charges and capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $40 and $16, respectively. We estimate one-time pre-tax charges related to Project Fuel to be approximately $120 to $130 million, with an additional capital investment of $60 to $70 million through the end of the 2021 fiscal year to implement the restructuring element of Project Fuel. We anticipate that the majority of the one-time charges associated with these initiatives will be incurred by the end of the 2019 fiscal year. 
Segment Results
Segment performance is evaluated based on segment profit, exclusive of general corporate expenses, share-based compensation costs, costs associated with restructuring initiatives and the amortization of intangible assets. Financial items, such as interest income and expense, are managed on a global basis at the corporate level. The exclusion of such charges from segment results reflects management's view on how it evaluates segment performance.
Our operating model includes some shared business functions across the segments, including product warehousing and distribution, transaction processing functions and, in most cases, a combined sales force and management teams. We apply a fully allocated cost basis, in which shared business functions are allocated between the segments. Such allocations are estimates, and do not represent the costs of such services if performed on a stand-alone basis.
The following tables present changes in segment net sales and segment profit for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018, as compared to the corresponding periods in fiscal 2017, and provide a reconciliation of organic segment net sales and organic segment profit to reported amounts. For a reconciliation of segment profit to Earnings before income taxes, see Note 16 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Wet Shave net sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 increased 0.8%, inclusive of a 4.8% increase due to currency movements. Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales decreased $13.6, or 4.0%. Men's Systems organic net sales were flat, as sales growth from International Hydro and Private Label was largely offset by declines in North America. Women's Systems organic net sales declined low-single digits as growth from Intuition f.a.b. product and strong growth in Asia and Latin America was more than offset by overall declines in North America and Europe. Disposables organic net sales were down mid-single digits, largely driven by declines in North America, while International grew modestly. 
Wet Shave net sales for the first six months of fiscal 2018 decreased 1.5%, inclusive of a 3.6% increase due to currency movements. Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales decreased $33.3, or 5.1%. Men's Systems volumes declined as North America distribution losses were partially offset by International growth. Women's Systems declined as growth related to the launch of Intuition f.a.b. was offset by declines in North America. Disposable and Shave Prep volumes were down, primarily due to category declines in North America.
Sun and Skin Care segment net sales and segment profit are affected by the seasonality of sun care products. As a result, segment net sales and segment profit tend to be higher in the second and third quarters of the fiscal year. 
Sun and Skin Care net sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 increased 1.1%, inclusive of a 1.6% increase due to acquisitions, a 2.5% decline due to the Playtex gloves sale and a 1.7% increase due to currency movements. Excluding the impact of acquisitions, the Playtex gloves sale and currency movements, organic net sales increased $0.5, or 0.3%, driven by growth of Sun Care volumes in North America, largely offset by price mix from higher returns. Bulldog net sales increased over 100% compared to the prior year, and Wet Ones, due to the flu season in North America.
Sun and Skin Care net sales for the first six months of fiscal 2018 increased 1.5%, inclusive of a 2.3% increase due to acquisitions, a 3.4% decline due to the Playtex gloves sale and a 1.6% increase due to currency movements. Excluding the impact of acquisitions, the Playtex gloves sale and currency movements, organic net sales increased $2.0, or 1.0%, with strong performance in Skin Care and Grooming as growth in Bulldog and Wet Ones during the first six months were offset by declines in Hawaiian Tropic and the exit of the private label Suncare business. Banana Boat experienced slight growth sales through the first six months of fiscal 2018. 
Feminine Care net sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 decreased $2.9, or 3.5%, inclusive of a 0.3% increase due to the impact of currency movements. Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales decreased 3.8%due to the impact of currency movements largely driven by Tampons, specifically in the Gentle Glide and o.b. brands. Total Liners, led by Carefree, increased 5.7%, and total Pads were essentially flat in the quarter.
Feminine Care net sales for the first six months of fiscal 2018 decreased $9.4, or 5.5%, inclusive of a 0.3% increase due to the impact of currency movements. Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales decreased 5.8% driven by volume declines across Gentle Glide and o.b. branded tampons and Stayfree branded pads, partially offset by growth in Carefree branded liners.
All Other net sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 decreased 12.4%, inclusive of a 0.6% increase due to the impact of currency movements. Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales decreased $4.5, or 13.0%, primarily due to a decline in volumes of Diaper Genie® and infant cups and bottles from the Toys R Us liquidation, and distribution losses in feeding products.
All Other net sales for the first six months of fiscal 2018 decreased 5.8%, inclusive of a 0.9% increase due to the impact of currency movements. Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales decreased $4.5 or 6.7%, as declines in volumes of Diaper Genie® and infant cups and bottles were partially offset by growth in pet care products.
All Other segment profit for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 was $4.3, a decrease of $3.4, or 44.2%, inclusive of a 2.6% increase due to the impact of currency movements. Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic segment profit decreased 46.8%, primarily due to a decline in volumes of Diaper Genie® and infant cups and bottles and an increase in overhead spending.
All Other segment profit for the first six months of fiscal 2018 was $11.5, a decrease of $3.1 or 21.3% compared to the prior year period, inclusive of a 2.7% increase due to the impact of currency movements. Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic segment profit decreased 24.0%, primarily due to lower volumes of Diaper Genie and infant cups and bottles.
General Corporate and Other Expenses
For the second quarter of fiscal 2018, general corporate expenses were $18.8, or 3.1% of net sales, as compared to $23.5, or 3.8% of net sales, in the prior year quarter. For the first six months of fiscal 2018, general corporate expenses were $37.2, or 3.5% of net sales, compared to $39.9, or 3.6% of net sales, in the prior year period. For both the quarter and six month period, the decreases in general corporate expenses over the prior period were primarily related to lower share-based and deferred compensation expense, as well as savings related to our ZBS program.
We manage our worldwide cash requirements by reviewing available funds among the many subsidiaries through which we conduct business and the cost effectiveness with which those funds can be accessed. We generally repatriate a portion of current year earnings from select non-US subsidiaries only if the economic cost of the repatriation is not considered material. As a result of the Tax Act signed December 22, 2017, we repatriated approximately $300 of cash from certain foreign subsidiaries during the second quarter of fiscal 2018. We utilized repatriated cash to invest in Jack Black and to reduce borrowings under the U.S. revolving credit facility. 
The counterparties to deposits consist of a number of major financial institutions. We consistently monitor positions with, and credit ratings of, counterparties both internally and by using outside ratings agencies. 
Our total borrowings were $1,425.7 at March 31, 2018, including $307.8 tied to variable interest rates. Our total borrowings at September 30, 2017 were $1,544.8.
As of March 31, 2018, we had outstanding borrowings of $123.0 under our unsecured revolving credit facility in the U.S. (the "Revolving Facility") and $8.0 of outstanding letters of credit. Taking into account outstanding borrowings and outstanding letters of credit at March 31, 2018, $594.0 remains available under the Revolving Facility. At September 30, 2017, we had outstanding borrowings of $245.0 under the Revolving Facility. As of March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017, we had approximately $185.0 outstanding under a term loan. 
We had outstanding international borrowings, recorded in Notes payable, of $21.6 and $19.4 as of March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively.
The minimum required contribution to our pension plans in fiscal 2018 is $9.6; however, discretionary contributions may also be made. During the first six months of fiscal 2018, we contributed $3.9 to our pension plans.
As of March 31, 2018, we were in compliance with the provisions and covenants associated with our debt agreements.
Operating Activities
Cash flow from operating activities was $73.4 during the first six months of fiscal 2018, as compared to $15.1 during the same period in the prior year. The improvement in operating cash flow was driven by changes in working capital, primarily in accounts receivable, inventory and other operating liabilities. Changes in cash flows from Operating activities resulting from the Tax Act include a reduction in Net Earnings from the net transition charge of $17.4, a non-cash deferred tax adjustment and an offsetting change in operating assets and liabilities from the increase in current and long-term income taxes payable. The Company expects that fiscal 2018 free cash flow will be above 100% of GAAP net earnings.
Investing Activities
Cash flow used by investing activities was $94.2 during the first six months of fiscal 2018 as compared to $58.5 during the same period in the prior year. The change was primarily due to the $90.3 acquisition of Jack Black in the second quarter of fiscal 2018, slightly offset by the $19.0 sale of the Playtex gloves business in the first quarter fiscal 2018. In the prior year we purchased Bulldog for $34.0. Capital expenditures were $27.6 during the first six months of fiscal 2018 and $30.4 during the same period in the prior year.
Financing Activities
Net cash used by financing activities was $249.7 during the first six months of fiscal 2018 as compared to net cash from financing activities of $282.8 during the same period in the prior year. The $33.1 decrease in net cash used by financing activities was driven by smaller net repayments related to the Revolving Facility in the current year compared to the repayment of our former Netherlands credit facility for approximately $277.0 in fiscal 2017. The decline in net debt repayments was offset by an increase in repurchases of common shares of $65.9 in the six months ended March 31, 2018 when compared to the prior year period.
Share Repurchases
During the first six months of fiscal 2018, we repurchased 2.1 shares of our common stock for $124.4. In January 2018, the Board approved an authorization to repurchase up to 10.0 shares of the Company's common stock, replacing the previous stock repurchase authorization from May 2015. Any future share repurchases would be made in the open market, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise, in such amounts and at such times as the Company deems appropriate based upon prevailing market conditions, business needs and other factors.
Commitments and Contingencies
There have been no other material changes in our contractual obligations since the presentation in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, as filed with the SEC on November 20, 2017.
Our operations, like those of other companies, are subject to various federal, state, foreign and local laws and regulations intended to protect the public health and the environment. These regulations relate primarily to worker safety, air and water quality, underground fuel storage tanks and waste handling and disposal. It is difficult to quantify with certainty the cost of environmental matters, particularly remediation and future capital expenditures for environmental control equipment. Total environmental capital expenditures and operating expenses are not expected to have a material effect on our total capital and operating expenditures, consolidated earnings or competitive position. However, current environmental spending estimates could be modified as a result of changes in our plans or our understanding of underlying facts, changes in legal requirements, including any requirements related to global climate change, or other factors. 
Legal and Other Contingencies
Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
The following table sets forth the purchases of the Company's securities by the Company and any affiliated purchasers within the meaning of Rule 10b-18(a)(3) (17 CFR 240.10b-18(a)(3)) during the second quarter of fiscal 2018. 
