Edgewell Personal Care Company, and its subsidiaries (collectively, “Edgewell” or the “Company”), is one of the world’s largest manufacturers and marketers of personal care products in the wet shave, sun and skin care, feminine care, and infant care categories. Edgewell has a portfolio of over 25 brands and a global footprint in more than 50 countries. 
Statement of Cash Flows Presentation. Certain amounts within Cash Flows from Operating Activities for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 have been reclassified to conform with the current period presentation. Net cash from operating activities for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 was not impacted by this change.
Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements. In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued an Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) which provides a single comprehensive revenue recognition model for all contracts with customers to improve comparability within industries, across industries, and across capital markets. During 2016, the FASB issued three ASUs clarifying the revenue recognition implementation guidance on various topics included within the original ASU. The Company adopted the ASU for revenue recognition beginning October 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method. Revenues are primarily generated from the sale of finished products to customers. Those sales predominantly contain a single delivery element and revenue is recognized at a single point in time when the performance obligations within the contract have been completed. As a result, the adoption of the ASU did not have a material impact on the timing of revenue recognition. The adoption resulted in the recognition of a $5.3 inventory return asset included in Other current assets on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of October 1, 2018 with an offsetting increase to the returns reserve in Other current liabilities. The adoption resulted in the recognition of a $1.3 liability for advanced payments from customers in Other current liabilities with a corresponding increase to Trade receivables to reclassify advanced payments from customers from contra-Trade receivables as of October 1, 2018. Refer to Note 2 in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. 
In August 2016, the FASB issued an ASU intended to address diversity in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows. The amendments provide guidance on specific cash flow issues, including debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs, the sale of accounts receivable, contingent consideration payments on business combinations, proceeds from the settlement of insurance claims, and distributions received from equity method investees, among others. The Company adopted the ASU beginning October 1, 2018. The Company noted that the adoption of the ASU resulted in the reclassification of approximately $9.0 and $7.2 in operating cash inflows for the nine months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, associated with the $150 uncommitted master accounts receivable purchase agreement entered into on September 15, 2017 with The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., New York Branch, as the purchaser (the “Accounts Receivable Facility”) to investing cash inflows in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-16 intended to improve the accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory. Under the new guidance, an entity should recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory, such as intellectual property and property, plant, and equipment, when the transfer occurs. The Company adopted the standard beginning October 1, 2018. The impact of the adoption of the ASU resulted in the recognition of a deferred tax asset and a credit to retained earnings of $3.9.
In January 2017, the FASB issued an ASU clarifying the definition of a business, reducing the number of transactions that need to be further evaluated, and providing a framework to assist entities in evaluating whether both an input and a substantive process are present. The amendments set forth in the ASU specify that when the fair value of the gross assets acquired or disposed of is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or a group of similarly identifiable assets, the integrated set of assets and activities is not a business. The guidance also requires that an integrated set of assets and activities must include, at a minimum, an input and a substantive process that together significantly contribute to the ability to create output to be considered a business and removes the evaluation of whether a market participant could replace the missing elements. The Company adopted the ASU beginning October 1, 2018. The impact of the ASU will be dependent upon the nature of any future acquisitions or dispositions made by the Company.
In May 2017, the FASB issued an ASU that clarifies the scope of accounting for modifications of share-based payment awards. The amendments provide guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting. The Company adopted the ASU beginning October 1, 2018 and noted that the impact on its financial statements was not material.
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements. In February 2016, the FASB issued an ASU which amends existing lease accounting guidance to require recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet for leases previously classified as operating leases. Additionally, this update requires qualitative disclosure along with specific quantitative disclosures. Lessees and lessors will be required to recognize and measure leases at the beginning of the earliest period presented using a modified retrospective approach. The update will be effective for the Company beginning October 1, 2019, with early adoption permitted. The Company has begun assessing the impact of the standard, identified the components of the lease portfolio, and begun implementing business process changes and controls including new lease accounting software required to correctly apply the guidance across the organization. The Company will adopt this guidance October 1, 2019 with no restatement of prior period amounts. The Company is in the process of evaluating its impact on the financial statements; however, the Company anticipates the primary impacts will be a material increase in both assets and liabilities to include operating leases on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
On October 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2014-09 which provided guidance for accounting for revenue from contracts with customers. The Company adopted the standard beginning October 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method and applied the standard to contracts not completed at the adoption date. No adjustment to retained earnings was required on October 1, 2018. The adoption resulted in changes to how the Company reflects returns and advanced payments received from customers on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Results for periods ending after October 1, 2018 are recognized and presented in accordance with the new standard, while prior period amounts have not been adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with the prior accounting guidance.
Other impacts related to the adoption of the standard were not material to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Refer to Note 15 in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the Company’s disaggregation of revenue by operating segments and products. 
The Company’s revenue is from the sale of its products. Revenue is recognized when the customer obtains control of the goods, which occurs when the ability to use and obtain benefits from the goods are passed to the customer, most commonly upon the delivery of goods to the customer. Discounts are offered to customers for early payment and an estimate of the discounts is recorded as a reduction of Net sales in the same period as the sale. The Company’s standard sales terms are final and returns or exchanges are not permitted with the exception of end of season returns for Sun Care products. Reserves are established and recorded in cases where the right of return does exist for a particular sale.
customers, especially in the latter stages of the Sun Care season, to reduce the potential for returned product. The Company also allows for returns of other products under limited circumstances. Non-Sun Care returns are evaluated each period based on communications with customers and other issues known as of period end. The Company had a reserve for returns of $50.6 and $58.6 at June 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018, respectively. The adoption of ASU 2014-09 required changes in the presentation of returns on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet, namely that a return asset should be recognized for returns expected to be resold, measured at the carrying amount of goods at the time of sale, less the expected costs to recover the goods and any expected reduction in value. The Company had an inventory return asset of $5.3 as of the adoption date. The Company recorded an inventory return asset of $3.2 as of June 30, 2019. The recognition of an inventory return asset resulted in a corresponding increase to the reserve for returns as of June 30, 2019. The inventory return asset and the reserve for returns are included in Other current assets and Other current liabilities, respectively, on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
In addition, the Company offers a variety of programs, such as consumer coupons and rebate programs, primarily to its retail customers, designed to promote sales of its products. Such programs require periodic payments and allowances based on estimated results of specific programs and are recorded as a reduction to Net sales. The Company accrues, at the time of sale, the estimated total payments and allowances associated with each transaction. Additionally, the Company offers programs directly to consumers to promote the sale of its products. Promotions which reduce the ultimate consumer sale prices are recorded as a reduction of Net sales at the time the promotional offer is made using estimated redemption and participation levels. Taxes the Company collects on behalf of governmental authorities, which are generally included in the price to the customer, are also recorded as a reduction of Net sales. The Company continually assesses the adequacy of accruals for customer and consumer promotional program costs not yet paid. To the extent total program payments differ from estimates, adjustments may be necessary. Historically, these adjustments have not been material.
Harry’s, Inc.
Jack Black, L.L.C.
On March 1, 2018, the Company completed the acquisition of Jack Black, L.L.C. (“Jack Black”), a men’s luxury skincare products company based in the U.S., for $90.2, net of cash acquired. The acquisition creates opportunities to expand the Company’s personal care portfolio into a growing global category where it can leverage its international geographic footprint. The acquisition was financed through available operating cash. 
The Company has recognized the assets and liabilities of Jack Black based on estimates of their acquisition date fair values. The determination of the fair values of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities, including goodwill and other intangible assets, requires significant judgment. The Company completed the final fair value determination during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018.
The Company’s purchase price allocation for Jack Black included net assets of $93.9 and consisted of working capital and other net assets of $11.9 (including cash of $3.7), other intangible assets of $47.7 and goodwill of $34.3, representing the value of expansion into new markets. Goodwill is deductible for tax purposes. The intangible assets acquired consisted primarily of the Jack Black trade name, customer relationships and product formulations with a weighted average useful life of 17 years. All assets are included in the Company’s Sun and Skin Care segment. 
On October 3, 2017, the Company entered into an agreement to sell its Playtex gloves business to a household products company (the “Acquirer”) for $19.0 to allow the Company to better focus and utilize its resources on its other product lines. The agreement also provided the Acquirer with indefinite and exclusive worldwide rights to the Playtex trademark for gloves. The sale was completed on October 26, 2017. Total assets sold were approximately $3.7 resulting in a pre-tax gain on sale of $15.3 in fiscal 2018.
In February 2018, the Company announced Project Fuel, an enterprise-wide transformational initiative that is designed to address all aspects of the Company’s business and cost structure, simplifying and transforming the organization, structure, and key processes that will provide the necessary catalyst for further re-investment in the Company’s growth objectives while enabling the Company to achieve its desired future state operations. 
For the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, the Company had income tax expense of $9.3 and $56.4, respectively, on Earnings before income taxes of $21.4 and $140.3, respectively. The effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018 was 42.9% and 40.2%, respectively. The difference between the federal statutory rate and the effective rate for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 is primarily due to a $17.4 net transitional charge resulting from the enactment of the Tax Act, as discussed below, and the impact of the goodwill impairment.
Basic earnings per share is based on the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share is based on the number of shares used for the basic earnings per share calculation, adjusted for the dilutive effect of share options and restricted share equivalent (“RSE”) awards.
For the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019, the calculation of diluted weighted-average shares outstanding excludes 0.5 of share options because the effect of including these awards was anti-dilutive. For the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019, the calculation of diluted weighted-average shares outstanding excludes 0.2 of RSE awards that would have otherwise been dilutive, because the Company reported a net loss. For the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, the calculation of diluted weighted-average shares outstanding excludes 0.5 of share options because the effect of including these awards was anti-dilutive. For the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, the calculation of diluted weighted-average shares outstanding excludes 0.1 of RSE awards because the effect of these awards was anti-dilutive. 
Amortization expense was $4.4 and $13.4 for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, and $4.6 and $13.2 for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, respectively. Estimated amortization expense for amortizable intangible assets for the remainder of fiscal 2019 and for fiscal 2020, 2021, 2022, 2023, and 2024 is $4.3, $17.1, $16.5, $16.3, $16.3, and $16.2, respectively, and $166.8 thereafter. 
The Company performed an interim impairment analysis using financial information through June 30, 2019 and forecasts for cash flows developed using the Company's three-year strategic plan. The Company’s annual impairment test is performed on July 1. The interim impairment analysis was performed due to the decline in the price of the Company’s common stock in the third quarter of fiscal 2019. The analysis was completed in a manner consistent with the annual impairment test using both the market and income approaches and weighting them based on their application to the reporting units. The interim impairment review was performed across all reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets. The analysis indicated that the carrying amount of the goodwill for the Wet Shave and Infant Care reporting units was greater than its fair value. The impairment of the Wet Shave and Infant Care reporting units was calculated as the difference between the fair value, determined in the interim impairment review, and the carrying value. The results of the impairment analysis indicated that the goodwill of the Wet Shave and Infant Care reporting units was impaired $358.0 and $29.0, respectively, as of June 30, 2019. Additionally, the impairment analysis indicated that the indefinite-lived trade names for Wet Ones and Diaper Genie had carrying values that exceeded their fair values. As a result, the Wet Ones and Diaper Genie trade names were impaired $87.0 and $75.0, respectively as of June 30, 2019. 
Additionally, the interim impairment analysis indicated the fair values of the Skin Care and Feminine Care reporting units were between 102% and 105% of their carrying values, respectively. Key assumptions used in valuing the reporting units include the weighted average cost of capital of 9.6% and 7.9% for Skin Care and Feminine Care, respectively. The long-term revenue growth rates applied to the valuation models were 2.00% for Skin Care and 0.50% for Feminine Care. Unfavorable fluctuations in the discount rates or declines in forecasted sales and margins could result in impairment of the reporting units and indefinite-lived trade names. The Company will continue to evaluate the fair value of goodwill and intangible assets through the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019 for potential impairment. 
During fiscal 2018, the Company recorded impairment charges of $24.4 on the goodwill of the Infant Care reporting unit. The value of the Infant Care reporting unit decreased and required an impairment because of higher discount rates, lower forecasted revenue growth rates, and earnings margins, which resulted in lower projected long-term future cash flows when the interim impairment analysis was performed.
As of June 30, 2019, the discount rate used to determine the purchase price for the subject receivables is based upon LIBOR plus a margin applicable to the specified obligor.
Accounts receivables sold under this agreement were $308.2 and $754.2 for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, and $328.5 and $820.1 for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, respectively. The trade receivables sold that remained outstanding under this agreement as of June 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018 were $119.2 and $77.9, respectively. The net proceeds received were included in cash provided by operating activities and cash provided by investing activities on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. The difference between the carrying amount of the trade receivables sold and the sum of the cash received is recorded as a loss on sale of receivables in Other expense, net in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. The loss on sale of trade receivables was $0.9 and $2.2 for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, and the loss on sale of trade receivables was $0.8 and $1.8 for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, respectively. 
On February 6, 2019, the Company made a $185.0 prepayment to retire its term loan due April 2019 (the “Term Loan”). The Company funded the payment through additional borrowing on its U.S. revolving credit facility due June 2020 (“Revolving Credit Facility”). The Company had outstanding variable-rate international borrowings recorded in Notes payable, of $12.6 and $8.2 as of June 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018, respectively. 
The Company has not declared any dividends since the third quarter of fiscal 2015 and does not currently intend to declare dividends in the foreseeable future. 
OCI is defined as other comprehensive income (loss).
These AOCI components are included in the computation of net periodic cost (benefit). See Note 11 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
At times, the Company enters into contractual arrangements (also referred to as derivatives), to reduce its exposure to foreign currency. The Company has master netting agreements with all of its counterparties that allow for the settlement of contracts in an asset position with contracts in a liability position in the event of default. The Company manages counterparty risk through the utilization of investment grade commercial banks, diversification of counterparties, and its counterparty netting arrangements. The section below outlines the types of derivatives that existed at June 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018, as well as the Company’s objectives and strategies for holding derivative instruments.
A significant share of the Company’s sales is tied to currencies other than the U.S. dollar, the Company’s reporting currency. As such, a weakening of currencies relative to the U.S. dollar can have a negative impact on reported earnings. Conversely, strengthening of currencies relative to the U.S. dollar can improve reported results. The primary currencies to which the Company is exposed include the euro, the Japanese yen, the British pound, the Canadian dollar, and the Australian dollar.
Additionally, the Company’s foreign subsidiaries enter into internal and external transactions that create non-functional currency balance sheet positions at the foreign subsidiary level. These exposures are generally the result of intercompany purchases, intercompany loans and, to a lesser extent, external purchases, and are revalued in the foreign subsidiary’s local currency at the end of each period. Changes in the value of the non-functional currency balance sheet positions in relation to the foreign subsidiary’s local currency results in an exchange gain or loss recorded in Other expense, net. The primary currency to which the Company’s foreign subsidiaries are exposed is the U.S. dollar.
At June 30, 2019, the Company maintained a cash flow hedging program related to foreign currency risk. These derivative instruments had a high correlation to the underlying exposure being hedged and were deemed highly effective for accounting purposes in offsetting the associated risk.
The Company entered into a series of forward currency contracts to hedge cash flow uncertainty associated with currency fluctuations. These transactions are accounted for as cash flow hedges. The Company had an unrealized pre-tax loss of $0.5 and a gain of $3.9 at June 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018, respectively, on these forward currency contracts, which are accounted for as cash flow hedges and included in AOCI. Assuming foreign exchange rates versus the U.S. dollar remain at June 30, 2019 levels over the next 12 months, the majority of the pre-tax gain included in AOCI at June 30, 2019 is expected to be included in Other expense, net. Contract maturities for these hedges extend into fiscal 2020. At June 30, 2019, there were 61 open foreign currency contracts with a total notional value of $126.9.
The Company entered into foreign currency derivative contracts which are not designated as cash flow hedges for accounting purposes to hedge balance sheet exposures. Any gains or losses on these contracts are expected to be offset by exchange gains or losses on the underlying exposures and thus are not subject to significant market risk. The change in estimated fair value of the foreign currency contracts for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019 resulted in losses of $1.1 and $1.7, respectively, compared to gains of $3.0 and $0.2 for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, and was recorded in Other expense, net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings. At June 30, 2019, there were six open foreign currency derivative contracts not designated as cash flow hedges, with a total notional value of $56.1.
All derivative assets are presented in Other current assets or Other assets. All derivative liabilities are presented in Other current liabilities or Other liabilities.
Each of these derivative instruments had a high correlation to the underlying exposure being hedged for the periods indicated and were deemed highly effective in offsetting associated risk.
Gain (loss) was recorded in Other expense, net. 
At June 30, 2019, the estimated fair value of foreign currency contracts is the amount that the Company would receive or pay to terminate the contracts, considering first the quoted market prices of comparable agreements or, in the absence of quoted market prices, factors such as interest rates, currency exchange rates, and remaining maturities. The estimated fair value of the deferred compensation liability is determined based upon the quoted market prices of the investment options that are offered under the plan. 
At June 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018, the Company had no Level 1 or Level 3 financial assets or liabilities, other than pension plan assets.
At June 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018, the fair market value of fixed rate long-term debt was $1,066.7 and $1,061.2, respectively, compared to its carrying value of $1,100.0. The estimated fair value of the long-term debt was estimated using yields obtained from independent pricing sources for similar types of borrowing arrangements. There was no variable rate debt excluding revolving credit facilities as of June 30, 2019. The estimated fair value of variable-rate debt, which consists of bank debt and excludes revolving credit facilities, was $185.0 at September 30, 2018 compared to its carrying value of $184.9 at September 30, 2018. The estimated fair value was equal to the face value of the debt. The estimated fair value of long-term debt, excluding revolving credit facilities, have been determined based on Level 2 inputs. 
Due to the nature of cash and cash equivalents and short-term borrowings, including notes payable, carrying amounts on the balance sheets approximate fair value. Additionally, the carrying amounts of the Company’s revolving credit facilities, which are classified as long-term debt on the balance sheet, approximate fair value due to the revolving nature of the balances. The estimated fair value of cash and cash equivalents, short-term borrowings, and the revolving credit agreements have been determined based on Level 2 inputs.
Segment performance is evaluated based on segment profit, exclusive of general corporate expenses, share-based compensation costs, costs associated with restructuring initiatives, the gain on the sale of the Playtex gloves business, and the amortization of intangible assets. Financial items, such as interest income and expense, are managed on a global basis at the corporate level. The exclusion of such charges from segment results reflects management’s view on how it evaluates segment performance.
The Company's senior notes issued in May 2011 and May 2012 (collectively, the "Notes") are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a joint and several basis by the Company's existing and future direct and indirect domestic subsidiaries that are guarantors of any of the Company's credit agreements or other indebtedness for borrowed money (the "Guarantors"). The Guarantors are 100% owned either directly or indirectly by the Company and jointly and severally guarantee the Company's obligations under the Notes and substantially all of the Company's other outstanding indebtedness. The Company's subsidiaries organized outside of the U.S. and certain domestic subsidiaries which are not guarantors of any of the Company's other indebtedness (collectively, the "Non-Guarantors"), do not guarantee the Notes. The subsidiary guarantee with respect to the Notes is subject to release upon sale of all of the capital stock of the Subsidiary Guarantor; if the guarantee under the Company's credit agreements and other indebtedness for borrowed money is released or discharged (other than due to payment under such guarantee); or when the requirements for legal defeasance are satisfied or the obligations are discharged in accordance with the indenture.
Intercompany activities include product purchases between Guarantors and Non-Guarantors, charges for services provided by the Parent Company and various subsidiaries to other affiliates within the consolidated entity, and other intercompany activities in the normal course of business.
Intercompany activities include product purchases between Guarantors and Non-Guarantors, charges for services provided by the Parent Company and various subsidiaries to other affiliates within the consolidated entity, and other intercompany activities in the normal course of business.
