Document   
UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION




þQUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

 FOR THE QUARTERLY PERIOD ENDED February 28, 2019

OR

¨TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

 FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM TO 


Accenture plc



1 Grand Canal Square,

Grand Canal Harbour,





Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes þ No ¨

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files). Yes þ No ¨

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company,” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.


If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ¨

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes ¨ No þ

The number of shares of the registrant’s Class A ordinary shares, par value $0.0000225 per share, outstanding as of March 14, 2019 was 670,473,793 (which number includes 32,641,215 issued shares held by the registrant). The number of shares of the registrant’s Class X ordinary shares, par value $0.0000225 per share, outstanding as of March 14, 2019 was 650,821.
ACCENTURE PLC

INDEX


PART I — FINANCIAL INFORMATION

ITEM 1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

ACCENTURE PLC

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

February 28, 2019 and August 31, 2018 



The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.

ACCENTURE PLC

CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS

For the Three and Six Months Ended February 28, 2019 and 2018 




The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.

ACCENTURE PLC

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

For the Three and Six Months Ended February 28, 2019 and 2018 




The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.

ACCENTURE PLC

CONSOLIDATED SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY STATEMENT

For the Three Months Ended February 28, 2019 




The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.

ACCENTURE PLC

CONSOLIDATED SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY STATEMENT

For the Three Months Ended February 28, 2018 




The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.

ACCENTURE PLC

CONSOLIDATED SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY STATEMENT

For the Six Months Ended February 28, 2019




The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.

ACCENTURE PLC

CONSOLIDATED SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY STATEMENT

For the Six Months Ended February 28, 2018 




The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.

ACCENTURE PLC

CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOWS STATEMENTS

For the Six Months Ended February 28, 2019 and 2018 




The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.

ACCENTURE PLC

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION 

The accompanying unaudited interim Consolidated Financial Statements of Accenture plc and its controlled subsidiary companies have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) for quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and do not include all of the information and note disclosures required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”) for complete financial statements. We use the terms “Accenture,” “we” and “our” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements to refer to Accenture plc and its subsidiaries. These Consolidated Financial Statements should therefore be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2018 included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on October 24, 2018. 

The accompanying unaudited interim Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying disclosures. Although these estimates are based on management’s best knowledge of current events and actions that we may undertake in the future, actual results may differ from those estimates. The Consolidated Financial Statements reflect all adjustments of a normal, recurring nature that are, in the opinion of management, necessary for a fair presentation of results for these interim periods. The results of operations for the three and six months ended February 28, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending August 31, 2019.

On March 13, 2018, Accenture Holdings plc merged with and into Accenture plc, with Accenture plc as the surviving entity. As a result, all of the assets and liabilities of Accenture Holdings plc were acquired by Accenture plc, and Accenture Holdings plc ceased to exist. In connection with this internal merger, shareholders of Accenture Holdings plc (other than Accenture entities that held shares of Accenture Holdings plc), who primarily consisted of current and former members of Accenture Leadership and their permitted transferees, received one Class A ordinary share of Accenture plc for each share of Accenture Holdings plc that they owned, and Accenture plc redeemed all Class X ordinary shares of Accenture plc owned by such shareholders. 

Allowances for Client Receivables 

As of February 28, 2019 and August 31, 2018, total allowances recorded for client receivables were $53,616 and $49,913, respectively. 

Depreciation and Amortization 

Depreciation expense was $110,635 and $213,348 for the three and six months ended February 28, 2019, respectively, and $107,445 and $213,596 for the three and six months ended February 28, 2018, respectively. As of February 28, 2019 and August 31, 2018, total accumulated depreciation was $2,027,164 and $1,862,098, respectively. Deferred transition amortization expense was $68,209 and $137,088 for the three and six months ended February 28, 2019, respectively, and $71,288 and $153,142 for the three and six months ended February 28, 2018, respectively. See Note 6 (Goodwill and Intangible Assets) to these Consolidated Financial Statements for intangible asset amortization balances. 

Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements

Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2014-09 (“Topic 606”)

On September 1, 2018, we adopted FASB ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which replaced most existing revenue recognition guidance. The core principle of Topic 606 is that an entity should recognize revenue for the transfer of goods or services equal to the amount that it expects to be entitled to receive for those goods or services. Topic 606 has been applied to contracts that were not completed as of September 1, 2018. Results for reporting periods beginning after September 1, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historic accounting. See Note 2 (Revenues) to these Consolidated Financial Statements for further details. 

In connection with the adoption of Topic 606, we are now presenting total revenues and no longer reporting revenues before reimbursements. Prior period results have been revised to reflect this change in presentation. As a result of this change, for the three and six months ended February 28, 2018, both total revenues and cost of services 

ACCENTURE PLC

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)




The impact of adopting the new standard was not material to our Consolidated Financial Statements. The primary impacts included additional disclosure about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from client contracts, including judgments and changes in estimates. Upon adoption, we recorded a decrease to retained earnings of $6,451, net of a tax impact of $3,071, as of September 1, 2018.

The impact of adopting the new standard for the three and six months ended February 28, 2019 was an increase to revenues of approximately $6.9 million and $19.4 million, respectively. The impact on our balance sheet as of February 28, 2019 was not material with the exception of the classification of $2.2 billion of receivables and $571.8 million of contract assets, which were previously classified as Unbilled services, net. 

FASB ASU No. 2016-16 




FASB ASU No. 2017-07 


ACCENTURE PLC

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)



FASB ASU No. 2016-01 


New Accounting Pronouncement




We account for revenue in accordance with Topic 606, which we adopted on September 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method. 

Performance Obligations 

A performance obligation is a promise in a contract to transfer a distinct good or service to the client and is the unit of accounting in Topic 606. A contract’s transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation and recognized as revenue when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied. For contracts with multiple performance obligations, we allocate the contract’s transaction price to each performance obligation based on the relative standalone selling price. The primary method used to estimate standalone selling price is the expected cost plus a margin approach, under which we forecast our expected costs of satisfying a performance obligation and then add an appropriate margin for that distinct good or service based on margins for similar services sold on a standalone basis. While determining relative standalone selling price and identifying separate performance obligations require judgment, generally relative standalone selling prices and the separate performance obligations are readily identifiable as we sell those performance obligations unaccompanied by other performance obligations. Contract modifications are routine in the performance of our contracts. Contracts are often modified to account for changes in the contract specifications, requirements or duration. If a contract modification results in the addition of performance obligations priced at a standalone selling price or if the post-modification services are distinct from the services provided prior to the modification, the modification is accounted for separately. If the modified services are not distinct, they are accounted for as part of the existing contract. 

Our revenues are derived from contracts for outsourcing services, technology integration consulting services and non-technology consulting services. These contracts have different terms based on the scope, performance obligations and complexity of the engagement, which frequently require us to make judgments and estimates in recognizing revenues. We have many types of contracts, including time-and-materials contracts, fixed-price contracts, fee-per-transaction contracts and contracts with multiple fee types.  

ACCENTURE PLC

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)



The nature of our contracts gives rise to several types of variable consideration, including incentive fees. Many contracts include incentives or penalties related to costs incurred, benefits produced or adherence to schedules that may increase the variability in revenues and margins earned on such contracts. These variable amounts generally are awarded or refunded upon achievement of or failure to achieve certain performance metrics, milestones or cost targets and can be based upon client discretion. We include these variable fees in the estimated transaction price when there is a basis to reasonably estimate the amount of the fee and it is not probable a significant reversal of revenue will occur. These estimates reflect the expected value of the variable fee and are based on an assessment of our anticipated performance, historical experience and other information available at the time.  

Our performance obligations are satisfied over time as work progresses or at a point in time. The majority of our revenues are recognized over time based on the extent of progress towards satisfying our performance obligations. The selection of the method to measure progress towards completion requires judgment and is based on the contract and the nature of the services to be provided. 

Outsourcing Contracts  

Our outsourcing contracts typically span several years. Revenues are generally recognized on outsourcing contracts over time because our clients benefit from the services as they are performed. Outsourcing contracts require us to provide a series of distinct services each period over the contract term. Revenues from unit-priced contracts are recognized as transactions are processed. When contractual billings represent an amount that corresponds directly with the value provided to the client (e.g., time-and-materials contracts), revenues are recognized as amounts become billable in accordance with contract terms. 

Technology Integration Consulting Services 


Non-Technology Integration Consulting Services 

Our contracts for non-technology integration consulting services are typically less than a year in duration. Revenues are generally recognized over time as our clients benefit from the services as they are performed, or the contract includes termination provisions enabling payment for performance completed to date. When contractual billings represent an amount that corresponds directly with the value provided to the client (e.g. time-and-materials contracts), revenues are recognized as amounts become billable in accordance with contract terms. Revenues from fixed-price contracts are generally recognized using costs incurred to date relative to total estimated costs at completion to measure progress toward satisfying our performance obligations. Incurred cost represents work performed, which corresponds with, and thereby best depicts, the transfer of control to the client. For non-technology integration consulting contracts which do not qualify to recognize revenue over time, we recognize revenues at a point in time when we satisfy our performance obligations and the client obtains control of the promised good or service. 

Remaining Performance Obligations 

On February 28, 2019, we had approximately $19 billion of remaining performance obligations. Our remaining performance obligations represent the amount of transaction price for which work has not been performed and revenue has not been recognized. The majority of our contracts are terminable by the client on short notice with little or no termination penalties, and some without notice. Under Topic 606, only the non-cancelable portion of these contracts is included in our performance obligations. Additionally, our performance obligations only include variable consideration if we assess it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the uncertainty is resolved. Based on the terms of our contracts, a significant portion of what we consider contract bookings is not included in our remaining performance obligations. We expect to recognize approximately 57% of our remaining performance obligations as revenue in fiscal 2019, an additional 24% in fiscal 2020, and the balance thereafter. 

See Note 11 (Segment Reporting) to these Consolidated Financial Statements for our disaggregated revenues. 

ACCENTURE PLC

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)



Contract Estimates 

Estimates of total contract revenues and costs are continuously monitored over the life of our contracts, and recorded revenues and cost estimates are subject to revision as the contract progresses. If at any time the estimate of contract profitability indicates an anticipated loss on a technology integration consulting contract, we recognize the loss in the quarter it first becomes probable and reasonably estimable.  

Adjustments in contract estimates related to performance obligations satisfied or partially satisfied in prior periods increased our revenues by approximately $37 million and $38 million for the three and six months ended February 28, 2019, respectively. No adjustment on any one contract was material to our Consolidated Financial Statements for the three and six months ended February 28, 2019. 

Contract Balances 

The timing of revenue recognition, billings and cash collections results in Receivables, Contract assets, and Deferred revenues (Contract liabilities) on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Amounts are billed as work progresses in accordance with agreed-upon contractual terms, either at periodic intervals (e.g., monthly or quarterly) or upon achievement of contractual milestones. Our receivables are rights to consideration that are conditional only upon the passage of time as compared to our contract assets, which are rights to consideration conditional upon additional factors. When we bill or receive payments from our clients before revenue is recognized, we record Contract liabilities. Contract assets and liabilities are reported on our Consolidated Balance Sheet on a contract-by-contract basis at the end of each reporting period. 

For some outsourcing contracts, we receive payments for transition or set-up activities, which are deferred and recognized as revenue as the services are provided. These advance payments are typically not a significant financing component because they are used to meet working capital demands in the early stages of a contract and to protect us from the other party failing to complete its obligations under the contract. Deferred transition revenues were $587,356 and $581,395 as of February 28, 2019 and August 31, 2018, respectively, and are included in Non-current deferred revenues. Costs related to these activities are also deferred and are expensed as the services are provided. Generally, deferred amounts are protected in the event of early termination of the contract and are monitored regularly for impairment. Impairment losses are recorded when projected remaining undiscounted operating cash flows of the related contract are not sufficient to recover the carrying amount of contract assets. Deferred transition costs were $702,404 and $690,868 as of February 28, 2019 and August 31, 2018, respectively, and are included in Deferred contract costs. 



Changes in the contract asset and liability balances during the six months ended February 28, 2019, were a result of normal business activity and not materially impacted by any other factors. 

Revenues recognized during the three and six months ended February 28, 2019 that were included in Deferred revenues as of November 30, 2018 and September 1, 2018 were $1.5 billion and $2.4 billion, respectively. 

ACCENTURE PLC

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)



3. EARNINGS PER SHARE 





ACCENTURE PLC

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)



4. ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE LOSS 




ACCENTURE PLC

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)




During the six months ended February 28, 2019, we completed individually immaterial acquisitions for total consideration of $495,618, net of cash acquired. The pro forma effects of these acquisitions on our operations were not material. 

6. GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS 

Goodwill 



Goodwill includes immaterial adjustments related to prior period acquisitions. 

Intangible Assets 





ACCENTURE PLC

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)



7. MATERIAL TRANSACTIONS AFFECTING SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 

Dividends 



The payment of the cash dividends also resulted in the issuance of an immaterial number of additional restricted share units to holders of restricted share units.

Subsequent Event 

On March 26, 2019, the Board of Directors of Accenture plc declared a semi-annual cash dividend of $1.46 per share on its Class A ordinary shares for shareholders of record at the close of business on April 11, 2019 payable on May 15, 2019. The payment of the cash dividend will result in the issuance of an immaterial number of additional restricted share units to holders of restricted share units.


Derivatives 

In the normal course of business, we use derivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk. Our derivative financial instruments consist of deliverable and non-deliverable foreign currency forward contracts. 

Cash Flow Hedges 

For a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the change in estimated fair value of a hedging instrument is recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss as a separate component of Shareholders’ Equity and is reclassified into Cost of services in the Consolidated Income Statements during the period in which the hedged transaction is recognized. For information related to derivatives designated as cash flow hedges that were reclassified into Cost of services during the three and six months ended February 28, 2019 and 2018, as well as those expected to be reclassified into Cost of services in the next 12 months, see Note 4 (Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss) to these Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Other Derivatives 

Realized gains or losses and changes in the estimated fair value of foreign currency forward contracts that have not been designated as hedges were net losses of $28,945 and $77,928 for the three and six months ended February 28, 2019, respectively, and net gains of $56,316 and $46,783 for the three and six months ended February 28, 2018, respectively. Gains and losses on these contracts are recorded in Other income (expense), net in the Consolidated Income Statements and are offset by gains and losses on the related hedged items. 

ACCENTURE PLC

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)



Fair Value of Derivative Instruments 





Equity Securities Without Readily Determinable Fair Values 

We hold investments in equity securities that do not have readily determinable fair values. We record these investments at cost and remeasure them to fair value based on certain observable price changes or impairment events as they occur. The carrying amount of these investments was $117,728 as of February 28, 2019. Prior to the adoption of FASB ASU No. 2016-01, these investments were accounted for under the cost method. For additional information, see Note 1 (Basis of Presentation) to these Consolidated Financial Statements. 

ACCENTURE PLC

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)




On December 22, 2017, the United States enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”), which significantly changed U.S. tax law. The Tax Act lowered the U.S. statutory federal income tax rate from 35% to 21%, effective January 1, 2018, resulting in a blended U.S. statutory federal income tax rate of 25.7% for our fiscal year ended August 31, 2018. In the three months ended February 28, 2018, we recognized tax expense of $136,742, primarily to remeasure our net deferred tax assets at the new, lower rates. In the three months ended May 31, 2018, we recorded additional tax expense of $40,927 resulting from our continued analysis of the Tax Act. Our analysis and accounting for the Tax Act is complete. 

We apply an estimated annual effective tax rate to our year-to-date operating results to determine the interim provision for income tax expense. In addition, we recognize taxes related to unusual or infrequent items or resulting from a change in judgment regarding a position taken in a prior year as discrete items in the interim period in which the event occurs. 

Our effective tax rates for the three months ended February 28, 2019 and February 28, 2018 were 17.1% and 26.1%, respectively. Our effective tax rates for the six months ended February 28, 2019 and 2018 were 18.6% and 23.0%, respectively. Excluding tax expense associated with the enactment of the Tax Act, the effective tax rates would have been 15.1% and 18.0% for the three and six months ended February 28, 2018, respectively. The effective tax rate for the three months ended February 28, 2019 was higher primarily due to lower tax benefits from share-based payments and higher expense from the adoption of FASB ASU No. 2016-16, partially offset by a decrease in prior year tax liabilities. The effective tax rate for the six months ended February 28, 2019 was higher primarily due to lower tax benefits from share-based payments and higher expense from the adoption of FASB ASU No. 2016-16, partially offset by higher final determinations of prior year taxes. For additional information, see Note 1 (Basis of Presentation) to these Consolidated Financial Statements. 

10. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES 

Commitments 

We have either the right to purchase at fair value or, if certain events occur, may be required to purchase at fair value outstanding shares of our SinnerSchrader AG subsidiary. As of February 28, 2019 and August 31, 2018, we have reflected the fair value of approximately $43,000 and $47,000, respectively, related to redeemable common stock of the subsidiary in Other accrued liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 

Indemnifications and Guarantees 

In the normal course of business and in conjunction with certain client engagements, we have entered into contractual arrangements through which we may be obligated to indemnify clients with respect to certain matters. 

As of February 28, 2019 and August 31, 2018, our aggregate potential liability to our clients for expressly limited guarantees involving the performance of third parties was approximately $685,000 and $782,000, respectively, of which all but approximately $141,000 and $130,000, respectively, may be recovered from the other third parties if we are obligated to make payments to the indemnified parties as a consequence of a performance default by the other third parties. For arrangements with unspecified limitations, we cannot reasonably estimate the aggregate maximum potential liability, as it is inherently difficult to predict the maximum potential amount of such payments, due to the conditional nature and unique facts of each particular arrangement. 


Legal Contingencies 


ACCENTURE PLC

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)









ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 31, 2018, and with the information under the heading “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 31, 2018. 

We use the terms “Accenture,” “we,” “our” and “us” in this report to refer to Accenture plc and its subsidiaries. All references to years, unless otherwise noted, refer to our fiscal year, which ends on August 31. For example, a reference to “fiscal 2019” means the 12-month period that will end on August 31, 2019. All references to quarters, unless otherwise noted, refer to the quarters of our fiscal year. 

We use the term “in local currency” so that certain financial results may be viewed without the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of business performance. Financial results “in local currency” are calculated by restating current period activity into U.S. dollars using the comparable prior year period’s foreign currency exchange rates. This approach is used for all results where the functional currency is not the U.S. dollar. 

Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 

This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) relating to our operations, results of operations and other matters that are based on our current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections. Words such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “likely,” “anticipates,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “projects,” “believes,” “estimates,” “positioned,” “outlook” and similar expressions are used to identify these forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions as to future events that may not prove to be accurate. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecast in these forward-looking statements. Risks, uncertainties and other factors that might cause such differences, some of which could be material, include, but are not limited to: 

•Our results of operations could be adversely affected by volatile, negative or uncertain economic and political conditions and the effects of these conditions on our clients’ businesses and levels of business activity. 

•Our business depends on generating and maintaining ongoing, profitable client demand for our services and solutions, including through the adaptation and expansion of our services and solutions in response to ongoing changes in technology and offerings, and a significant reduction in such demand or an inability to respond to the evolving technological environment could materially affect our results of operations. 

•If we are unable to keep our supply of skills and resources in balance with client demand around the world and attract and retain professionals with strong leadership skills, our business, the utilization rate of our professionals and our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. 


•The markets in which we operate are highly competitive, and we might not be able to compete effectively. 

•Changes in our level of taxes, as well as audits, investigations and tax proceedings, or changes in tax laws or in their interpretation or enforcement, could have a material adverse effect on our effective tax rate, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 

•Our profitability could materially suffer if we are unable to obtain favorable pricing for our services and solutions, if we are unable to remain competitive, if our cost-management strategies are unsuccessful or if we experience delivery inefficiencies. 

•Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. 

•As a result of our geographically diverse operations and our growth strategy to continue geographic expansion, we are more susceptible to certain risks.

•Our business could be materially adversely affected if we incur legal liability.  

•Our work with government clients exposes us to additional risks inherent in the government contracting environment. 

•If we are unable to manage the organizational challenges associated with our size, we might be unable to achieve our business objectives. 

•If we do not successfully manage and develop our relationships with key alliance partners or if we fail to anticipate and establish new alliances in new technologies, our results of operations could be adversely affected. 

•Our ability to attract and retain business and employees may depend on our reputation in the marketplace. 

•We might not be successful at acquiring, investing in or integrating businesses, entering into joint ventures or divesting businesses. 

•If we are unable to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, or if our services or solutions infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others or we lose our ability to utilize the intellectual property of others, our business could be adversely affected. 

•Changes to accounting standards or in the estimates and assumptions we make in connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements could adversely affect our financial results. 


•Our results of operations and share price could be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain effective internal controls. 

•We might be unable to access additional capital on favorable terms or at all. If we raise equity capital, it may dilute our shareholders’ ownership interest in us. 

•We are incorporated in Ireland and a significant portion of our assets is located outside the United States. As a result, it might not be possible for shareholders to enforce civil liability provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States. We may also be subject to criticism and negative publicity related to our incorporation in Ireland. 

•Irish law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and might afford less protection to shareholders. 

For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the information under the heading “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 31, 2018. Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report or as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. 

Overview 

Revenues are driven by the ability of our executives to secure new contracts and to deliver services and solutions that add value relevant to our clients’ current needs and challenges. The level of revenues we achieve is based on our ability to deliver market-leading services and solutions and to deploy skilled teams of professionals quickly and on a global basis. 

Our results of operations are affected by economic conditions, including macroeconomic conditions and levels of business confidence. There continues to be significant volatility and economic and geopolitical uncertainty in many markets around the world, which may impact our business. We continue to monitor the impact of this volatility and uncertainty and seek to manage our costs in order to respond to changing conditions. There also continues to be volatility in foreign currency exchange rates. The majority of our revenues are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, including the Euro, U.K. pound and Japanese yen. Unfavorable fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates have had and could have in the future a material effect on our financial results.

As previously announced, on January 10, 2019, Pierre Nanterme stepped down as our chairman and chief executive officer and as a director for health reasons. Effective January 10, 2019, the Board of Directors appointed David Rowland, who was serving as our chief financial officer, as the interim chief executive officer and a director of Accenture, and KC McClure, who was serving as our managing director—Finance Operations, as our chief financial officer, and named our lead independent director, Marge Magner, as the non-executive chair of the board. We subsequently announced the passing of Mr. Nanterme on January 31, 2019.

Effective September 1, 2018, we adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606). In connection with the adoption, we present total revenues and no longer report revenues before reimbursements (net revenues). This change has no impact on operating income but does affect ratios calculated as a percentage of revenue, such as operating margin. Prior period results have been revised to reflect the fiscal 2019 presentation. For additional information, see Note 1 (Basis of Presentation) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 1, “Financial Statements.” 

Summary of Results




As we are a global company, our revenues are denominated in multiple currencies and may be significantly affected by currency exchange rate fluctuations. If the U.S. dollar weakens against other currencies, resulting in 

favorable currency translation, our revenues, revenue growth and results of operations in U.S. dollars may be higher. If the U.S. dollar strengthens against other currencies, resulting in unfavorable currency translation, our revenues, revenue growth and results of operations in U.S. dollars may be lower. The U.S. dollar strengthened against various currencies during the three and six months ended February 28, 2019 compared to the three and six months ended February 28, 2018, resulting in unfavorable currency translation and U.S. dollar revenue growth that was approximately 4% and 3% lower, respectively, than our revenue growth in local currency. Assuming that exchange rates stay within recent ranges for the remainder of fiscal 2019, we estimate that our full fiscal 2019 revenue growth in U.S. dollars will be approximately 3% lower in U.S. dollars than our revenue growth in local currency.



Effective September 1, 2018, we adopted ASU No. 2017-07, Compensation—Retirement Benefits (Topic 715), which required us to reclassify certain components of pension costs from operating expenses to non-operating expenses. Prior period results have been revised to reflect the fiscal 2019 presentation. For additional information, see Note 1 (Basis of Presentation) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 1, “Financial Statements.” 

Gross margin (Revenues less Cost of services as a percentage of Revenues) for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was 29.2%, compared with 28.9% for the second quarter of fiscal 2018. Gross margin for the six months ended February 28, 2019 was 30.2% compared with 29.9% for the six months ended February 28, 2018. The increase in gross margin for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was primarily due to lower labor costs, compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2018. The increase in gross margin for the six months ended February 28, 2019 was primarily due to lower non-payroll costs, compared to the same period in fiscal 2018.

Sales and marketing and General and administrative costs as a percentage of revenues were 16.0% for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 and 15.8% for the six months ended February 28, 2019, compared with 15.8% for both the second quarter of fiscal 2018 and six months ended February 28, 2018. We continuously monitor these costs and implement cost-management actions, as appropriate. For the second quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the same period in fiscal 2018, Sales and marketing costs as a percentage of revenues decreased 30 basis points, primarily due to improved operational efficiency in our business development activities and General and administrative costs as a percentage of revenues increased 50 basis points, primarily due to the recognition of share-based compensation upon the previously disclosed vesting and settlement of our former chairman and chief executive officer’s restricted share units in connection with his resignation for health reasons during the second quarter of fiscal 2019. For the six months ended February 28, 2019 compared to the same period in fiscal 2018, Sales and marketing costs as a percentage of revenues decreased 20 basis points, and General and administrative costs as a percentage of revenues increased 20 basis points.

Operating margin (Operating income as a percentage of revenues) for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was 13.3%, compared with 13.1% for the second quarter of fiscal 2018. Operating margin for the six months ended February 28, 2019 was 14.3%, compared with 14.1% for the six months ended February 28, 2018. 

Effective September 1, 2018, we adopted ASU No. 2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740). Upon adoption, we recorded deferred tax assets of $2.1 billion, and we will recognize incremental income tax expense going forward as these deferred tax assets are utilized. For additional information, see Note 1 (Basis of Presentation) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 1, “Financial Statements.” 

The effective tax rates for the three and six months ended February 28, 2019 were 17.1% and 18.6%, respectively. The effective tax rates for the three and six months ended February 28, 2018 were 26.1% and 23.0%, respectively. In the second quarter of fiscal 2018, we recorded a $137 million tax charge associated with the enactment of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”). Absent this charge, our effective tax rates for the three and six months ended February 28, 2018 would have been 15.1% and 18.0%, respectively. For additional information see Note 9 (Income Taxes) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 1, “Financial Statements”. 

Diluted earnings per share were $1.73 for the second quarter of fiscal 2019, compared with $1.37 for the second quarter of fiscal 2018. Diluted earnings per share were $3.69 for the six months ended February 28, 2019, compared with $3.16 for the six months ended February 28, 2018. The tax charge decreased fiscal 2018 diluted earnings per share by $0.21 in both the second quarter and six months ended February 28, 2018. Excluding the impact of this charge, diluted earnings per share would have been $1.58 for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 and $3.37 for the six months ended February 28, 2018. 

We have presented effective tax rate and diluted earnings per share excluding the impact of the tax charge in fiscal 2018, as we believe doing so facilitates understanding as to both the impact of the charge and our financial performance. 

New Bookings 

New bookings for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 were $11.8 billion, with consulting bookings of $6.7 billion and outsourcing bookings of $5.1 billion. New bookings for the six months ended February 28, 2019 were $22.0 billion, with consulting bookings of $12.6 billion and outsourcing bookings of $9.3 billion. 

Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended February 28, 2019 Compared to the Three Months Ended February 28, 2018 





Amounts in table may not total due to rounding. 


Revenues 


Operating Groups 





•Resources revenues increased 22% in local currency, driven by growth across all industry groups and geographic regions.

Geographic Regions 

•North America revenues increased 8% in local currency, driven by the United States.

•Europe revenues increased 7% in local currency, led by Italy, the United Kingdom, France and Ireland.

•Growth Markets revenues increased 16% in local currency, driven by Japan, as well as Brazil, China and Singapore.

Operating Expenses 

Operating expenses for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 increased $454 million, or 5%, over the second quarter of fiscal 2018, and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 86.7% from 86.9% during this period.

Cost of Services

Cost of services for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 increased $350 million, or 5%, over the second quarter of fiscal 2018, and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 70.8% from 71.1% during this period. Gross margin for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 increased to 29.2% from 28.9% during the second quarter of fiscal 2018.The increase in gross margin was primarily due to lower labor costs compared to the same period in fiscal 2018.

Sales and Marketing 

Sales and marketing expense for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 increased $21 million, or 2%, over the second quarter of fiscal 2018, and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 9.8% from 10.1% during this period. The decrease as a percentage of revenues was primarily due to improved operational efficiency in our business development activities compared to the same period in fiscal 2018. 

General and Administrative Costs 

General and administrative costs for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 increased $83 million, or 15%, over the second quarter of fiscal 2018, and increased as a percentage of revenues to 6.2% from 5.7% during this period. The increase as a percentage of revenues was primarily due to higher share-based compensation as discussed in the Overview. 

Operating Income and Operating Margin 

Operating income for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 increased $91 million, or 7%, over the second quarter of fiscal 2018. 



Amounts in table may not total due to rounding. 




•Financial Services operating income decreased as higher consulting contract profitability and revenue growth were offset by higher operating expenses as a percentage of revenues.


•Products operating income was relatively flat year-over-year as revenue growth and higher consulting contract profitability were offset by higher operating expenses as a percentage of revenues.

•Resources operating income increased primarily due to revenue growth and higher contract profitability.

Other Income (Expense), net 

Other income (expense), net primarily consists of foreign currency gains and losses, non-operating components of pension expense, as well as gains and losses associated with our investments in privately held companies. For the second quarter of fiscal 2019, other expense decreased $33 million from the second quarter of fiscal 2018, primarily due to lower net foreign exchange losses. 

Provision for Income Taxes 

The effective tax rate for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was 17.1%, compared with 26.1% for the second quarter of fiscal 2018. In the second quarter of fiscal 2018, we recorded a $137 million tax charge associated with the enactment of the Tax Act. Absent this charge, our effective tax rate for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 would have been 15.1%. The higher effective tax rate for the three months ended February 28, 2019 was primarily due to lower tax benefits from share-based payments and higher expense from the adoption of FASB ASU No. 2016-16, partially offset by a decrease in prior year tax liabilities. For additional information, see Note 1 (Basis of Presentation) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 1, “Financial Statements.” 

Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests 

Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased $40 million, or 71%, from the second quarter of fiscal 2018 due to the decrease in the non-controlling ownership percentage from 4% held by Accenture Holdings plc and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. to less than 1% held by only Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. driven by the Accenture Holdings plc merger with and into Accenture plc. For additional information on the merger, see Note 1 (Basis of Presentation) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 1, “Financial Statements”. 

Earnings Per Share 

Diluted earnings per share were $1.73 for the second quarter of fiscal 2019, compared with $1.37 for the second quarter of fiscal 2018. The $0.36 increase in our diluted earnings per share included the impact of the $137 million tax charge associated with the Tax Act, which decreased diluted earnings per share for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 by $0.21. Excluding the impact of this charge, diluted earnings per share for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 increased $0.15 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018, due to an increase of $0.12 from higher revenues and operating results, $0.05 from lower non-operating expense and $0.02 from lower weighted average shares outstanding. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $0.04 from a higher effective tax rate. For information regarding our earnings per share calculations, see Note 3 (Earnings Per Share) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 1, “Financial Statements.” 

Results of Operations for the Six Months Ended February 28, 2019 Compared to the Six Months Ended February 28, 2018 





Amounts in table may not total due to rounding. 


Revenues 


Operating Groups 





•Resources revenues increased 22% in local currency, driven by growth across all industry groups and geographic regions. 

Geographic Regions 

•North America revenues increased 9% in local currency, driven by the United States. 

•Europe revenues increased 6% in local currency, led by Italy, the United Kingdom, Ireland, and France. 

•Growth Markets revenues increased 16% in local currency, driven by Japan, as well as Brazil, China and Singapore. 

Operating Expenses 

Operating expenses for the six months ended February 28, 2019 increased $1,045 million, or 6%, over the six months ended February 28, 2018, and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 85.7% from 85.9% during this period. 

Cost of Services 

Cost of services for the six months ended February 28, 2019 increased $838 million, or 6%, over the six months ended February 28, 2018, and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 69.8% from 70.1% during this period. Gross margin for the six months ended February 28, 2019 increased to 30.2% from 29.9% during the six months ended February 28, 2018. The increase in gross margin was primarily due to lower non-payroll costs compared to the same period in fiscal 2018. 

Sales and Marketing 

Sales and marketing expense for the six months ended February 28, 2019 increased $90 million, or 5%, over the six months ended February 28, 2018, and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 9.9% from 10.1% during this period. 

General and Administrative Costs 

General and administrative costs for the six months ended February 28, 2019 increased $117 million, or 10%, over the six months ended February 28, 2018, and increased as a percentage of revenues to 5.9% from 5.7% during this period. 

Operating Income and Operating Margin 

Operating income for the six months ended February 28, 2019 increased $221 million, or 8%, over the six months ended February 28, 2018. 



Amounts in table may not total due to rounding. 




•Financial Services operating income decreased as higher contract profitability and revenue growth were offset by higher operating expenses as a percentage of revenues. 


•Products operating income increased primarily due to revenue growth and higher contract profitability, partially offset by higher operating expenses as a percentage of revenues. 

•Resources operating income increased primarily due to revenue growth and higher consulting contract profitability. 

Provision for Income Taxes 

The effective tax rate for the six months ended February 28, 2019 was 18.6%, compared with 23.0% for the six months ended February 28, 2018. In the second quarter of fiscal 2018, we recorded a $137 million tax charge associated with the enactment of the Tax Act. Absent this charge, our effective tax rate for the six months ended February 28, 2018 would have been 18.0%. The higher effective tax rate for the six months ended February 28, 2019 was primarily due to lower tax benefits from share-based payments and higher expense from the adoption of FASB ASU No. 2016-16, partially offset by higher benefits from final determinations of prior year taxes. For additional information, see Note 1 (Basis of Presentation) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 1, “Financial Statements.” 

Our provision for income taxes is based on many factors and subject to volatility year to year. We expect the fiscal 2019 annual effective tax rate to be in the range of 22.5% to 23.5%. The effective tax rate for interim periods can vary because of the timing of when certain events occur during the year. 

Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests 

Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests for the six months ended February 28, 2019 decreased $88 million, or 73%, from the six months ended February 28, 2018 due to the decrease in the non-controlling ownership percentage from 4% held by Accenture Holdings plc and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. to less than 1% held by only Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. driven by the Accenture Holdings plc merger with and into Accenture plc. For additional information on the merger, see Note 1 (Basis of Presentation) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 1, “Financial Statements”. 

Earnings Per Share 

Diluted earnings per share were $3.69 for the six months ended February 28, 2019, compared with $3.16 for the six months ended February 28, 2018. The $0.53 increase in our diluted earnings per share included the impact of the $137 million tax charge associated with the Tax Act, which decreased diluted earnings per share for the six months ended February 28, 2018 by $0.21. Excluding the impact of this charge, diluted earnings per share for the six months ended February 28, 2019 increased $0.32 compared with the six months ended February 28, 2018, due to an increase of $0.28 from higher revenues and operating results, $0.03 from lower non-operating expenses and $0.03 from lower weighted average shares outstanding. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $0.02 from a higher effective tax rate.For information regarding our earnings per share calculations, see Note 3 (Earnings Per Share) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 1, “Financial Statements.” 

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

As of February 28, 2019, Cash and cash equivalents was $4.5 billion, compared with $5.1 billion as of August 31, 2018. 




Amounts in table may not total due to rounding. 




We believe that our current and longer-term working capital, investments and other general corporate funding requirements will be satisfied for the next twelve months and thereafter through cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, from our borrowing facilities and future financial market activities. 

Substantially all of our cash is held in jurisdictions where there are no regulatory restrictions or material tax effects on the free flow of funds. Domestic cash inflows for our Irish parent, principally dividend distributions from lower-tier subsidiaries, have been sufficient to meet our historic cash requirements, and we expect this to continue into the future. 

Borrowing Facilities 



Under the borrowing facilities described above, we had an aggregate of $386 million of letters of credit outstanding as of February 28, 2019.

Share Purchases and Redemptions 

The Board of Directors of Accenture plc has authorized funding for our publicly announced open-market share purchase program for acquiring Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares and for purchases and redemptions of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares held by current and former members of Accenture Leadership and their permitted transferees. 







Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 

In the normal course of business and in conjunction with some client engagements, we have entered into contractual arrangements through which we may be obligated to indemnify clients with respect to certain matters. 

To date, we have not been required to make any significant payment under any of the arrangements described above. For further discussion of these transactions, see Note 10 (Commitments and Contingencies) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 1, “Financial Statements.” 

New Accounting Pronouncements and Significant Accounting Policies 

See Note 1 (Basis of Presentation) and Note 2 (Revenues) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 1, “Financial Statements.” Note 2 includes updates to our revenue policy as result of the implementation of FASB ASU No. 2014-09.

ITEM 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 

During the six months ended February 28, 2019, there were no material changes to the information on market risk exposure disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 31, 2018. For a discussion of our market risk associated with foreign currency risk, interest rate risk and equity price risk as of August 31, 2018, see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in Part II, Item 7A, of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 31, 2018. 

ITEM 4. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures 

Our management, with the participation of our principal executive officer and our principal financial officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Exchange Act) as of the end of the period covered by this report. Any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives. Based on that evaluation, the principal executive officer and the principal financial officer of Accenture plc have concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this report, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level. 

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 

There has been no change in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the second quarter of fiscal 2019 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 

PART II — OTHER INFORMATION

ITEM 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 

The information set forth under “Legal Contingencies” in Note 10 (Commitments and Contingencies) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Part I, Item 1, “Financial Statements,” is incorporated herein by reference. 

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 

For a discussion of our potential risks and uncertainties, see the information under the heading “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 31, 2018. There have been no material changes to the risk factors disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 31, 2018. 

ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS 

Purchases of Accenture plc Class A Ordinary Shares

The following table provides information relating to our purchases of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares during the second quarter of fiscal 2019. 




ITEM 3. DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIES 

None. 

ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 

Not applicable. 

ITEM 5. OTHER INFORMATION 



ITEM 6. EXHIBITS




SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.



