
UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION




☑QUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

 For the quarterly period endedNovember 30, 2019

OR


 For the transition period from   to  


Accenture plc 



1 Grand Canal Square,

Grand Canal Harbour,







Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes þ No ¨

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files). Yes þ No ¨

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company,” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.


If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ¨


The number of shares of the registrant’s Class A ordinary shares, par value $0.0000225 per share, outstanding as of December 2, 2019 was 656,946,050 (which number includes 21,902,507 issued shares held by the registrant). The number of shares of the registrant’s Class X ordinary shares, par value $0.0000225 per share, outstanding as of December 2, 2019 was 593,689.
ACCENTURE PLC

INDEX


PART I — FINANCIAL INFORMATION

ITEM 1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

ACCENTURE PLC

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

November 30, 2019 and August 31, 2019 



The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.

ACCENTURE PLC

CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS

For the Three Months Ended November 30, 2019 and 2018 




The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.

ACCENTURE PLC

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

For the Three Months Ended November 30, 2019 and 2018 




The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.

ACCENTURE PLC

CONSOLIDATED SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY STATEMENT

For the Three Months Ended November 30, 2019 




The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.

ACCENTURE PLC

CONSOLIDATED SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY STATEMENT

For the Three Months Ended November 30, 2018 




The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.

ACCENTURE PLC

CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOWS STATEMENTS

For the Three Months Ended November 30, 2019 and 2018 




The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.

ACCENTURE PLC

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION 

The accompanying unaudited interim Consolidated Financial Statements of Accenture plc and its controlled subsidiary companies have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) for quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and do not include all of the information and note disclosures required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”) for complete financial statements. We use the terms “Accenture,” “we” and “our” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements to refer to Accenture plc and its subsidiaries. These Consolidated Financial Statements should therefore be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2019 included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on October 29, 2019. 

The accompanying unaudited interim Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying disclosures. Although these estimates are based on management’s best knowledge of current events and actions that we may undertake in the future, actual results may differ from those estimates. The Consolidated Financial Statements reflect all adjustments of a normal, recurring nature that are, in the opinion of management, necessary for a fair presentation of results for these interim periods. The results of operations for the three months ended November 30, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending August 31, 2020.

Allowances for Client Receivables 

As of November 30, 2019 and August 31, 2019, total allowances recorded for client receivables were $45,016 and $45,538, respectively. 

Depreciation and Amortization 

Depreciation expense was $97,090 and $102,713 for the three months ended November 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. As of November 30, 2019 and August 31, 2019, total accumulated depreciation was $2,096,462 and $1,956,029, respectively. Deferred transition amortization expense was $67,914 and $68,879 for the three months ended November 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. See Note 6 (Goodwill and Intangible Assets) to these Consolidated Financial Statements for intangible asset amortization balances. 

ACCENTURE PLC

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)



Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements

Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2016-02 and related updates (“Topic 842”) 

On September 1, 2019, we adopted FASB ASU No. 2016-02, Leases, and related updates (“Topic 842”) using the effective date method. Prior period amounts were not adjusted. The primary impact of adoption is the requirement for lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by both operating and finance leases. Enhanced quantitative and qualitative disclosures about leasing arrangements are also required. We elected the package of practical expedients which does not require reassessment of prior conclusions related to identifying leases, lease classification or initial direct costs. We also elected the practical expedient to combine lease and nonlease components, accounting for the combined components as a single lease component, for our office real estate and automobile leases. The standard did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Income Statement.



See Note 7 (Leases) to these Consolidated Financial Statements for further details. 

FASB ASU No. 2018-09 (“Subtopic 350-40”)


ACCENTURE PLC

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)




Disaggregation of Revenue 

See Note 12 (Segment Reporting) to these Consolidated Financial Statements for our disaggregated revenues. 

Remaining Performance Obligations 

We had remaining performance obligations of approximately $19 billion and $20 billion as of November 30, 2019 and August 31, 2019, respectively. Our remaining performance obligations represent the amount of transaction price for which work has not been performed and revenue has not been recognized. The majority of our contracts are terminable by the client on short notice with little or no termination penalties, and some without notice. Under Topic 606, only the non-cancelable portion of these contracts is included in our performance obligations. Additionally, our performance obligations only include variable consideration if we assess it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the uncertainty is resolved. Based on the terms of our contracts, a significant portion of what we consider contract bookings is not included in our remaining performance obligations. We expect to recognize approximately 61% of our remaining performance obligations as of November 30, 2019 as revenue in fiscal 2020, an additional 19% in fiscal 2021, and the balance thereafter. 

Contract Estimates 

Adjustments in contract estimates related to performance obligations satisfied or partially satisfied in prior periods were immaterial for the three months ended November 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 

Contract Balances 

Deferred transition revenues were $583,531 and $563,245 as of November 30, 2019 and August 31, 2019, respectively, and are included in Non-current deferred revenues. Costs related to these activities are also deferred and are expensed as the services are provided. Generally, deferred amounts are protected in the event of early termination of the contract and are monitored regularly for impairment. Impairment losses are recorded when projected remaining undiscounted operating cash flows of the related contract are not sufficient to recover the carrying amount of contract assets. Deferred transition costs were $691,727 and $681,492 as of November 30, 2019 and August 31, 2019, respectively, and are included in Deferred contract costs.



Changes in the contract asset and liability balances during the three months ended November 30, 2019, were a result of normal business activity and not materially impacted by any other factors. 

Revenues recognized during the three months ended November 30, 2019 that were included in Deferred revenues as of August 31, 2019 were $1.8 billion. Revenues recognized during the three months ended November 30, 2018 that were included in Deferred revenues as of September 1, 2018 were $1.8 billion. 

ACCENTURE PLC

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)



3. EARNINGS PER SHARE 





ACCENTURE PLC

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)



4. ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE LOSS 




ACCENTURE PLC

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)




During the three months ended November 30, 2019, we completed individually immaterial acquisitions for total consideration of $97,028, net of cash acquired. The pro forma effects of these acquisitions on our operations were not material. 

6. GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS 

Goodwill 



Goodwill includes immaterial adjustments related to prior period acquisitions.

Intangible Assets 





ACCENTURE PLC

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)




We account for leases in accordance with Topic 842. See Note 1 (Basis of Presentation) to these Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our adoption. 

As a lessee, substantially all of our lease obligation is for office real estate. Our significant judgments used in determining our lease obligation include whether a contract is or contains a lease and the determination of the discount rate used to calculate the lease liability. 

Our leases may include the option to extend or terminate before the end of the contractual term and are often non-cancelable or cancelable only by the payment of penalties. Our lease assets and liabilities include these options in the lease term when it is reasonably certain that they will be exercised. In certain cases, we sublease excess office real estate to third-party tenants. 

Lease assets and liabilities recognized at the lease commencement date are determined predominantly as the present value of the payments due over the lease term. Unless the implicit rate can be determined, we use our incremental borrowing rate on that date to calculate the present value. Our incremental borrowing rate approximates the rate at which we could borrow, on a secured basis for a similar term, an amount equal to our lease payments in a similar economic environment. 

Effective September 1, 2019, when we are the lessee, all leases are recognized as lease liabilities and associated lease assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Lease liabilities represent our obligation to make payments arising from the lease. Lease assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and may also include advance payments, initial direct costs or lease incentives. Fixed and variable payments that depend upon an index or rate, such as the Consumer Price Index (CPI), are included in the recognition of lease assets and liabilities at the commencement-date rate. Other variable payments, such as common area maintenance, property and other taxes, utilities and insurance that are based on the lessor’s cost, are recognized in the Consolidated Income Statement in the period incurred. 





As of November 30, 2019, our operating leases had a weighted average remaining lease term of 7.4 years and a weighted average discount rate of 4.2%. 

ACCENTURE PLC

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)





As of November 30, 2019, we have entered into operating leases that have not yet commenced with future lease payments of $430 million that are not reflected in the table above. These leases are primarily related to office real estate and will commence in or before fiscal year 2022 with lease terms of up to 17 years. 



ACCENTURE PLC

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)



8. MATERIAL TRANSACTIONS AFFECTING SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 

Dividends 



The payment of the cash dividends also resulted in the issuance of an immaterial number of additional restricted share units to holders of restricted share units.

Subsequent Event 

On December 16, 2019, the Board of Directors of Accenture plc declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.80 per share on its Class A ordinary shares for shareholders of record at the close of business on January 16, 2020 payable on February 14, 2020. The payment of the cash dividend will result in the issuance of an immaterial number of additional restricted share units to holders of restricted share units.


Derivatives 

In the normal course of business, we use derivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk. Our derivative financial instruments consist of deliverable and non-deliverable foreign currency forward contracts. 

Cash Flow Hedges 

For a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the change in estimated fair value of a hedging instrument is recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss as a separate component of Shareholders’ Equity and is reclassified into Cost of services in the Consolidated Income Statements during the period in which the hedged transaction is recognized. For information related to derivatives designated as cash flow hedges that were reclassified into Cost of services during the three months ended November 30, 2019 and 2018, as well as those expected to be reclassified into Cost of services in the next 12 months, see Note 4 (Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss) to these Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Other Derivatives 

Realized gains or losses and changes in the estimated fair value of foreign currency forward contracts that have not been designated as hedges were net losses of $56,619 and $48,983 for the three months ended November 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Gains and losses on these contracts are recorded in Other income (expense), net in the Consolidated Income Statements and are offset by gains and losses on the related hedged items. 

ACCENTURE PLC

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)



Fair Value of Derivative Instruments 





Equity Securities Without Readily Determinable Fair Values 

We hold investments in equity securities that do not have readily determinable fair values. We record these investments at cost and remeasure them to fair value based on certain observable price changes or impairment events as they occur. The carrying amount of these investments was $149,525 and $131,675 as of November 30, 2019 and August 31, 2019, respectively. 


We apply an estimated annual effective tax rate to our year-to-date operating results to determine the interim provision for income tax expense. In addition, we recognize taxes related to unusual or infrequent items or resulting from a change in judgment regarding a position taken in a prior year as discrete items in the interim period in which the event occurs. 

Our effective tax rates for the three months ended November 30, 2019 and 2018 were 23.6% and 19.8%, respectively. The effective tax rate for the three months ended November 30, 2019 was higher primarily due to lower benefits from final determinations of prior year taxes and the phased-in effects of US tax reform. 

ACCENTURE PLC

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)



11. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES 

Indemnifications and Guarantees 

In the normal course of business and in conjunction with certain client engagements, we have entered into contractual arrangements through which we may be obligated to indemnify clients with respect to certain matters. 

As of November 30, 2019 and August 31, 2019, our aggregate potential liability to our clients for expressly limited guarantees involving the performance of third parties was approximately $730,000 and $794,000, respectively, of which all but approximately $144,000 and $128,000, respectively, may be recovered from the other third parties if we are obligated to make payments to the indemnified parties as a consequence of a performance default by the other third parties. For arrangements with unspecified limitations, we cannot reasonably estimate the aggregate maximum potential liability, as it is inherently difficult to predict the maximum potential amount of such payments, due to the conditional nature and unique facts of each particular arrangement. 


Legal Contingencies 


On July 24, 2019, Accenture was named in a putative class action lawsuit filed by consumers of Marriott International, Inc. (“Marriott”) in the U.S. District Court for the District of Maryland. The complaint alleges negligence by us, and seeks monetary damages, costs and attorneys’ fees and other related relief, relating to a data security incident involving unauthorized access to the reservations database of Starwood Worldwide Resorts, Inc. (“Starwood”), which was acquired by Marriott on September 23, 2016. Since 2009, we have provided certain IT infrastructure outsourcing services to Starwood. We believe the lawsuit is without merit and we will vigorously defend it. We cannot reasonably estimate a range of loss, if any, at this time. 

ACCENTURE PLC

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)








Effective September 1, 2019 we revised the reporting of our geographic regions for the movement of one country from Growth Markets to Europe. Prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current period presentation.


ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 31, 2019, and with the information under the heading “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 31, 2019. 

We use the terms “Accenture,” “we,” “our” and “us” in this report to refer to Accenture plc and its subsidiaries. All references to years, unless otherwise noted, refer to our fiscal year, which ends on August 31. For example, a reference to “fiscal 2020” means the 12-month period that will end on August 31, 2020. All references to quarters, unless otherwise noted, refer to the quarters of our fiscal year. 

We use the term “in local currency” so that certain financial results may be viewed without the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of business performance. Financial results “in local currency” are calculated by restating current period activity into U.S. dollars using the comparable prior year period’s foreign currency exchange rates. This approach is used for all results where the functional currency is not the U.S. dollar. 

Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 

This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) relating to our operations, results of operations and other matters that are based on our current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections. Words such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “likely,” “anticipates,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “projects,” “believes,” “estimates,” “positioned,” “outlook” and similar expressions are used to identify these forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions as to future events that may not prove to be accurate. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecast in these forward-looking statements. Risks, uncertainties and other factors that might cause such differences, some of which could be material, include, but are not limited to: 

•Our results of operations could be adversely affected by volatile, negative or uncertain economic and political conditions and the effects of these conditions on our clients’ businesses and levels of business activity. 

•Our business depends on generating and maintaining ongoing, profitable client demand for our services and solutions, including through the adaptation and expansion of our services and solutions in response to ongoing changes in technology and offerings, and a significant reduction in such demand or an inability to respond to the evolving technological environment could materially affect our results of operations. 

•If we are unable to keep our supply of skills and resources in balance with client demand around the world and attract and retain professionals with strong leadership skills, our business, the utilization rate of our professionals and our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. 


•The markets in which we operate are highly competitive, and we might not be able to compete effectively. 

•Changes in our level of taxes, as well as audits, investigations and tax proceedings, or changes in tax laws or in their interpretation or enforcement, could have a material adverse effect on our effective tax rate, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 

•Our profitability could materially suffer if we are unable to obtain favorable pricing for our services and solutions, if we are unable to remain competitive, if our cost-management strategies are unsuccessful or if we experience delivery inefficiencies. 

•Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. 

•As a result of our geographically diverse operations and our growth strategy to continue to expand in our key markets around the world, we are more susceptible to certain risks.

•Our business could be materially adversely affected if we incur legal liability.  

•Our work with government clients exposes us to additional risks inherent in the government contracting environment. 

•If we are unable to manage the organizational challenges associated with our size, we might be unable to achieve our business objectives. 

•Our ability to attract and retain business and employees may depend on our reputation in the marketplace. 

•If we do not successfully manage and develop our relationships with key alliance partners or if we fail to anticipate and establish new alliances in new technologies, our results of operations could be adversely affected. 

•We might not be successful at acquiring, investing in or integrating businesses, entering into joint ventures or divesting businesses. 

•If we are unable to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, or if our services or solutions infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others or we lose our ability to utilize the intellectual property of others, our business could be adversely affected. 

•Our results of operations and share price could be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain effective internal controls. 

•Changes to accounting standards or in the estimates and assumptions we make in connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements could adversely affect our financial results. 

•Many of our contracts include fees subject to the attainment of targets or specific service levels. This could increase the variability of our revenues and impact our margins. 

•We might be unable to access additional capital on favorable terms or at all. If we raise equity capital, it may dilute our shareholders’ ownership interest in us. 

•We are incorporated in Ireland and a significant portion of our assets is located outside the United States. As a result, it might not be possible for shareholders to enforce civil liability provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States. We may also be subject to criticism and negative publicity related to our incorporation in Ireland. 

•Irish law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and might afford less protection to shareholders. 

For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the information under the heading “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 31, 2019. Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report or as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. 

Overview 

Revenues are driven by the ability of our executives to secure new contracts, to renew and extend existing contracts, and to deliver services and solutions that add value relevant to our clients’ current needs and challenges. The level of revenues we achieve is based on our ability to deliver market-leading services and solutions and to deploy skilled teams of professionals quickly and on a global basis. 

Our results of operations are affected by economic conditions, including macroeconomic conditions and levels of business confidence. There continues to be significant volatility and economic and geopolitical uncertainty in many markets around the world, which may impact our business. We continue to monitor the impact of this volatility and uncertainty and seek to manage our costs in order to respond to changing conditions. There also continues to be volatility in foreign currency exchange rates. The majority of our revenues are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, including the Euro, Japanese yen and U.K. pound. Unfavorable fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates have had and could have in the future a material effect on our financial results.

Summary of Results 




As we are a global company, our revenues are denominated in multiple currencies and may be significantly affected by currency exchange rate fluctuations. If the U.S. dollar weakens against other currencies, resulting in favorable currency translation, our revenues, revenue growth and results of operations in U.S. dollars may be higher. If the U.S. dollar strengthens against other currencies, resulting in unfavorable currency translation, our revenues, revenue growth and results of operations in U.S. dollars may be lower. The U.S. dollar strengthened against various currencies during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2019, resulting in unfavorable currency translation and U.S. dollar revenue growth that was approximately 2% lower than our revenue growth in local currency. Assuming that exchange rates stay within recent ranges for the remainder of fiscal 2020, we estimate that our full fiscal 2020 revenue growth in U.S. dollars will be approximately 1% lower in U.S. dollars than our revenue growth in local currency.



Gross margin (Revenues less Cost of services as a percentage of Revenues) for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 was 32.1%, compared with 31.1% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019. The increase in gross margin for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 was primarily due to lower labor costs as a percentage of revenues compared to the same period in fiscal 2019.

Sales and marketing and General and administrative costs as a percentage of revenues were 16.6% for the first quarter of fiscal 2020, compared with 15.7% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019. For the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to the same period in fiscal 2019, Sales and marketing costs as a percentage of revenues increased 40 basis points, primarily due to higher selling and other business development costs, and General and administrative costs as a percentage of revenues increased 50 basis points, primarily due to higher technology and facilities costs. We continuously monitor these costs and implement cost-management actions, as appropriate.

Operating margin (Operating income as a percentage of revenues) for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 was 15.6%, compared with 15.4% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019. 

New Bookings 

New bookings for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 were $10.3 billion, with consulting bookings of $6.0 billion and outsourcing bookings of $4.3 billion.

Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended November 30, 2019 Compared to the Three Months Ended November 30, 2018 





Amounts in table may not total due to rounding. 


Revenues 


Operating Groups 






Geographic Regions 

•North America revenues increased 9% in local currency, driven by the United States.

•Europe revenues increased 7% in local currency, led by Italy, Germany, France and Ireland.

•Growth Markets revenues increased 13% in local currency, driven by Japan, as well as Brazil and Singapore.

Operating Expenses

Operating expenses for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 increased $615 million, or 7%, over the first quarter of fiscal 2019, and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 84.4% from 84.6% during this period.

Cost of Services

Cost of services for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 increased $403 million, or 6%, over the first quarter of fiscal 2019, and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 67.9% from 68.9% during this period. Gross margin for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 increased to 32.1% from 31.1% during the first quarter of fiscal 2019. The increase in gross margin was primarily due to lower labor costs as a percentage of revenues compared to the same period in fiscal 2019.

Sales and Marketing 

Sales and marketing expense for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 increased $121 million, or 11%, over the first quarter of fiscal 2019, and increased as a percentage of revenues to 10.5% from 10.1% during this period. The increase as a percentage of revenues was primarily due to higher selling and other business development costs compared to the same period in fiscal 2019.

General and Administrative Costs 

General and administrative costs for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 increased $91 million, or 15%, over the first quarter of fiscal 2019, and increased as a percentage of revenues to 6.1% from 5.6% during this period. The increase as a percentage of revenues was primarily due to higher technology and facilities costs compared to the same period in fiscal 2019. 

Operating Income and Operating Margin 

Operating income for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 increased $138 million, or 8%, over the first quarter of fiscal 2019. 





•Financial Services operating income decreased as revenue growth was offset by lower contract profitability and higher sales and marketing costs as a percentage of revenues.


•Products operating income increased primarily due to revenue growth and higher consulting contract profitability.

•Resources operating income increased primarily due to revenue growth and higher outsourcing contract profitability.

Other Income (Expense), net 

Other income (expense), net primarily consists of foreign currency gains and losses, non-operating components of pension expense, as well as gains and losses associated with our investments. For the first quarter of fiscal 2020, other income (expense) increased $45 million over the first quarter of fiscal 2019, primarily due to gains on investments, partially offset by foreign exchange losses. 

Income Tax Expense

The effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 was 23.6%, compared with 19.8% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019. The higher effective tax rate for the three months ended November 30, 2019 was primarily due to lower benefits from final determinations of prior year taxes and the phased-in effects of US tax reform. For additional information, see Note 1 (Basis of Presentation) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 1, “Financial Statements.” 

Our provision for income taxes is based on many factors and subject to volatility year to year. We expect the fiscal 2020 annual effective tax rate to be in the range of 23.5% to 25.5%. The effective tax rate for interim periods can vary because of the timing of when certain events occur during the year. 

Earnings Per Share 

Diluted earnings per share were $2.09 for the first quarter of fiscal 2020, compared with $1.96 for the first quarter of fiscal 2019. The $0.13 increase in our diluted earnings per share was due to an increase of $0.17 from higher revenues and operating results, $0.06 from higher non-operating income, and $0.01 from lower weighted average shares outstanding. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $0.11 from a higher effective tax rate. For information regarding our earnings per share calculations, see Note 3 (Earnings Per Share) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 1, “Financial Statements.” 

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

As of November 30, 2019, Cash and cash equivalents was $5.8 billion, compared with $6.1 billion as of August 31, 2019. 




Amounts in table may not total due to rounding. 




We believe that our current and longer-term working capital, investments and other general corporate funding requirements will be satisfied for the next twelve months and thereafter through cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, from our borrowing facilities and future financial market activities. 

Substantially all of our cash is held in jurisdictions where there are no regulatory restrictions or material tax effects on the free flow of funds. Domestic cash inflows for our Irish parent, principally dividend distributions from lower-tier subsidiaries, have been sufficient to meet our historic cash requirements, and we expect this to continue into the future. 

Borrowing Facilities 



Under the borrowing facilities described above, we had an aggregate of $414 million of letters of credit outstanding as of November 30, 2019.

Share Purchases and Redemptions 

The Board of Directors of Accenture plc has authorized funding for our publicly announced open-market share purchase program for acquiring Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares and for purchases and redemptions of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares held by current and former members of Accenture Leadership and their permitted transferees. 







Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 

In the normal course of business and in conjunction with some client engagements, we have entered into contractual arrangements through which we may be obligated to indemnify clients with respect to certain matters. 

To date, we have not been required to make any significant payment under any of the arrangements described above. For further discussion of these transactions, see Note 11 (Commitments and Contingencies) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 1, “Financial Statements.” 

Significant Accounting Policies 

See Note 1 (Basis of Presentation) and Note 7 (Leases) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 1, “Financial Statements.” Note 7 includes updates to our leases policy as a result of the implementation of FASB ASU No. 2016-02.

ITEM 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 

During the three months ended November 30, 2019, there were no material changes to the information on market risk exposure disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 31, 2019. For a discussion of our market risk associated with foreign currency risk, interest rate risk and equity price risk as of August 31, 2019, see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in Part II, Item 7A, of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 31, 2019. 

ITEM 4. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures 

Our management, with the participation of our principal executive officer and our principal financial officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Exchange Act) as of the end of the period covered by this report. Any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives. Based on that evaluation, the principal executive officer and the principal financial officer of Accenture plc have concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this report, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level. 

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 

While we updated certain internal controls and supporting processes related to leases in connection with our adoption of FASB ASU No. 2016-02 (Topic 842), there has been no change in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 

PART II — OTHER INFORMATION

ITEM 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 

The information set forth under “Legal Contingencies” in Note 11 (Commitments and Contingencies) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Part I, Item 1, “Financial Statements,” is incorporated herein by reference. 

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 

For a discussion of our potential risks and uncertainties, see the information under the heading “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 31, 2019. There have been no material changes to the risk factors disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 31, 2019. 

ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS 

Purchases of Accenture plc Class A Ordinary Shares

The following table provides information relating to our purchases of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares during the first quarter of fiscal 2020. 




ITEM 3. DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIES 

None. 

ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 

Not applicable. 

ITEM 5. OTHER INFORMATION 



ITEM 6. EXHIBITS





SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.



