Exhibit   


UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED COMBINED FINANCIAL INFORMATION

The following tables present unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information about Analog Devices, Inc.’s (“Analog Devices”) consolidated statement of income, after giving effect to the merger (the “Merger”) with Linear Technology Corporation (“Linear”) which was consummated on March 10, 2017, certain related financing arrangements described in Note 1—Description of the Merger (the “Financing Arrangements”), and Analog Devices’ December 2016 bond offering (the “December Bond Offering”, and collectively with the Merger and the Financing Arrangements, the “Transactions”). The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is derived from and should be read in conjunction with the historical consolidated financial statements and related notes of Analog Devices as of and for the year ended October 28, 2017 included in Analog Devices’ Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the SEC on November 22, 2017.

The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income combines the historical audited consolidated statement of income of Analog Devices for the year ended October 28, 2017 with the historical unaudited consolidated income statement data of Linear for the period from October 30, 2016 through March 10, 2017 and gives effect to the Transactions as if they occurred on October 30, 2016. The historical financial information has been adjusted to give effect to pro forma adjustments that are (i) directly attributable to the Transactions, (ii) factually supportable, and (iii) expected to have a continuing impact on the combined entity’s consolidated results.

Unaudited condensed combined pro forma balance sheets as of October 28, 2017 and February 3, 2018 and an unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income for the three months ended February 3, 2018 have not been included, as the Transactions have been fully reflected in the periods ended and as of October 28, 2017 and February 3, 2018.

The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information presented is based on the assumptions and adjustments described in the accompanying notes, which should be read together with the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income. 


• Application of the acquisition method of accounting in connection with the Merger; 

• Adjustments to reflect the Financing Arrangements;

• Transaction costs incurred in connection with the Merger; and

• Adjustments to reflect the December Bond Offering.

The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income includes certain acquisition accounting and related financing adjustments, including items expected to have a continuing impact on the results of the combined company, such as increased amortization expense on acquired intangible assets. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income does not include the impact of any revenue, cost or other operating synergies that may result from the Merger or other adjustments that are not expected to have a continuing impact on the combined company.

The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is presented for illustrative purposes only and does not purport to be indicative of the results or financial position that actually would have occurred or that may occur in the future had the Transactions been completed on the dates indicated, nor does it purport to be indicative of the future operating results or financial position of Analog Devices after the Transactions. Future results may vary significantly from the results reflected because of various factors, including those discussed in the section entitled “Risk Factors” of Analog Devices’ Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the SEC on November 22, 2017.


The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information has been compiled in a manner consistent with the accounting policies of Analog Devices. 


See the accompanying notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Financial Information.


Note 1 – Description of the Merger

On July 26, 2016, Linear, Analog Devices and Tahoe Acquisition Corp. (“Merger Sub”) entered into the merger agreement. The transaction closed on March 10, 2017, whereby Merger Sub merged with and into Linear, with Linear surviving the merger as a wholly owned subsidiary of Analog Devices. 






The Financing Arrangements

•On March 10, 2017, in connection with the Merger, Analog Devices entered into a 90-day bridge facility (the “Bridge Credit Agreement”) in the amount of $4.1 billion. This Bridge Credit Agreement replaced Analog Devices’ previous debt commitment letters, which included a 364-day bridge facility and a 90-day bridge facility. The 364-day bridge commitment was not drawn down and expired upon execution of the Bridge Credit Agreement. Within 90 days of closing, in the third quarter of fiscal 2017, all of the $4.1 billion of outstanding loans under the Bridge Credit Agreement were repaid using cash on hand; and

•On September 23, 2016, Analog Devices entered into a term loan agreement, which consisted of a 3-Year Term Loan Facility in the principal amount of $2.5 billion and a 5-Year Term Loan Facility in the principal amount of $2.5 billion, which were drawn down upon the closing of the Merger; and

The December Bond Offering

•On December 5, 2016, Analog Devices issued $400 million aggregate principal amount of 2.500% senior unsecured notes due December 5, 2021 (the “2021 Notes”), $550 million aggregate principal amount of 3.125% senior unsecured notes due December 5, 2023 (the “2023 Notes”), $900 million aggregate principal amount of 3.500% senior unsecured notes due December 5, 2026 (the “2026 Notes”) and $250 million 


aggregate principal amount of 4.500% senior unsecured notes due December 5, 2036 (the “2036 Notes” and together with the 2021 Notes, the 2023 Notes, and the 2026 Notes, the “Notes”) in a public offering. 

Note 2 — Basis of Pro Forma Presentation

The accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information was prepared in accordance with Article 11 of SEC Regulation S-X. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income was prepared using the historical audited consolidated statement of income of Analog Devices for the year ended October 28, 2017 and the historical unaudited consolidated income statement data of Linear for the period from October 30, 2016 through March 10, 2017.

Both Analog Devices’ historical audited financial statements and Linear’s historical unaudited financial data were prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and are presented in thousands of U.S. dollars. Linear’s historical unaudited financial data included within the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income includes certain reclassifications that were made to conform Linear’s financial statement presentation to that of Analog Devices.

The acquisition of Linear by Analog Devices was accounted for as a business combination using the acquisition method of accounting under the provisions of ASC 805, with Analog Devices representing the accounting acquirer. The pro forma adjustments are based upon available information and certain assumptions, which management believes are reasonable under the circumstances and are described in the accompanying notes herein. Actual results may differ materially from the assumptions within the accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income and related footnotes herein. Under ASC 805, generally all assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recorded at their acquisition date fair value. The excess of merger consideration over the fair value of identified tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed was recognized as goodwill. 

The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income includes certain acquisition accounting adjustments, including items expected to have a continuing impact on the results of the combined company, such as increased amortization expense on acquired intangible assets and compensation expense for ongoing share-based compensation arrangements replaced as a requirement of the Merger. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income does not include the impacts of any revenue, cost, or other operating synergies that may result from the Merger or any related restructuring costs that may be contemplated.

Note 3 –Merger Consideration

The merger consideration was approximately $15.8 billion based on the closing share price of Analog Devices’ common stock of $82.20 on March 10, 2017. 







Note 4 – Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Statement of Income Adjustments










Included in the pro forma adjustment is the elimination of the one-time impact of accelerated vesting of certain Linear awards, which vested immediately prior to the Transactions and were recorded in Linear’s historical results. The replacement share-based awards vest over their respective service periods, which occur during the first five years in the post-combination period.









Analog Devices that were issued to replace certain restricted stock awards and restricted stock unit awards of Linear at the close of the Merger.





The financing adjustment to interest expense described in (i) and (ii) above includes a decrease to interest expense of $40.3 million to eliminate the non-recurring impact of interest expense and bridge fees related to the Bridge Credit Facility, which were incurred in the first three months of the year ended October 28, 2017. The Bridge Credit Facility was repaid within 90 days of the closing date and therefore will not have a continuing impact on the combined entity’s consolidated results. The permanent financing, as noted above, has been reflected in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income for the entire fiscal year ended October 28, 2017.

If LIBOR were to increase by 0.125%, interest expense on the term loan facilities would increase by $5.6 million for the year ended October 28, 2017.





