

UNITED STATES 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 





QUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 

For the quarterly period ended March 31, 2019 

OR 


TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 



ADTRAN, Inc. 






Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company,” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 




Title of each classTrading SymbolName of exchange on which registered

 Common Stock, Par Value $0.01 ADTN The NASDAQ Global Select Market 

As of May 1, 2019, the registrant had 47,809,152 shares of common stock, $0.01 par value per share, outstanding. 

ADTRAN, Inc. 

Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q 

For the three months ended March 31, 2019 

Table of Contents 


FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS 

The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of ADTRAN. ADTRAN and its representatives may from time to time make written or oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in this report, our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and other communications with our stockholders. Generally, the words, “believe”, “expect”, “intend”, “estimate”, “anticipate”, “will”, “may”, “could” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. We caution you that any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf are subject to uncertainties and other factors that could cause such statements to be wrong. A list of factors that could materially affect our business, financial condition or operating results is included under “Factors that Could Affect Our Future Results” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” contained in Item 2 of Part I of this report. They have also been discussed in Item 1A of Part I in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, filed on February 28, 2019 with the SEC. Though we have attempted to list comprehensively these important factors, we caution investors that other factors may prove to be important in the future in affecting our operating results. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict all of these factors, nor can we assess the impact each factor or a combination of factors may have on our business. 

You are further cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements because they speak only of our views as of the date that the statements were made. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. 


PART I. FINANCIAL INFORMATION 

ITEM 1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

ADTRAN, INC. 

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 

 (In thousands, except per share amounts) 


See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 


ADTRAN, INC. 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 




See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 


ADTRAN, INC. 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE LOSS 




See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 


ADTRAN, INC. 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY 





See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 


ADTRAN, INC. 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 




See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 


ADTRAN, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

Basis of Presentation 

The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements of ADTRAN®, Inc. and its subsidiaries (“ADTRAN” or the “Company”) have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations for reporting on Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Accordingly, certain information and notes required by generally accepted accounting principles for complete financial statements are not included herein. The December 31, 2018 Consolidated Balance Sheet is derived from audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. 

In the opinion of management, all adjustments necessary to fairly state these interim statements have been recorded and are of a normal and recurring nature. The results of operations for an interim period are not necessarily indicative of the results for the full year. The interim statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and notes thereto included in ADTRAN’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, filed on February 28, 2019 with the SEC. 

Use of Estimates 

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenue and expense during the reporting period. Our more significant estimates include the obsolete and excess inventory reserves, warranty reserves, customer rebates, determination of the deferred and accrued revenue components of multiple element sales agreements, estimated costs to complete obligations associated with deferred and accrued revenue, estimated income tax provision and income tax contingencies, the fair value of stock-based compensation, impairment of goodwill, valuation and estimated lives of intangible assets, estimated pension liability, fair value of investments and the evaluation of other-than-temporary declines in the value of investments. Actual amounts could differ significantly from these estimates. 

Recent Accounting Pronouncements 




In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-13, Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820) Disclosure Framework-Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement, which changes the fair value measurement disclosure requirements of ASC 820, Fair Value Measurement. The amendments in this ASU are the result of a broader disclosure project called, Concepts Statement No. 8 - Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting — Chapter 8, Notes to Financial Statements, which the FASB finalized on August 28, 2018. The FASB used the guidance in the Concepts Statement to improve the effectiveness of ASC 820’s disclosure requirements. ASU 2018-13 provides users of financial statements with information about assets and liabilities measured at fair value in the statement of financial position or disclosed in the notes to the financial statements. More specifically ASU 2018-13 requires disclosures about the valuation techniques and inputs that are used to arrive at measures of fair value, including judgments and assumptions that are made in determining fair value. In addition, ASU 2018-13 requires disclosures regarding the uncertainty in the fair value measurements as of the reporting date and how changes in fair value measurements affect performance and cash flows. ASU 2018-13 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2019. We are currently evaluating the effect of ASU 2018-13, but do not expect it will have a material effect on our financial statement disclosures. 


In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-15, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other-Internal-Use Software (Subtopic 350-40), Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That Is a Service Contract. ASU 2018-15 clarifies certain aspects of ASU 2015-05, Customer’s Accounting for Fees Paid in a Cloud Computing Arrangement. Specifically, ASU 2018-15 aligns the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementations costs incurred to develop or obtain internal use software. ASU 2018-15 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the effect of ASU 2018-15, but do not expect it will have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. 


In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842). ASU 2016-02 requires an entity to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and to disclose key information about the entity’s leasing arrangements. In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-10, Codification Improvements to Topic 842, Leases, which clarified certain aspects of ASU 2016-02, as well as, ASU 2018-11, Leases (Topic 842), Targeted Improvements, which provided for an optional transition method which allowed for the application of the legacy lease guidance, including its disclosure requirements, for the comparative periods presented in the year of adoption, with the cumulative effect of initially applying the new lease standard recognized as an adjustment to retained earnings as of the date of adoption. In March 2019, the FASB issued ASU 2019-01, Leases (Topic 824) Codification Improvements, which removed the requirement for an entity to disclose in the interim periods after adoption, the effect of the change on income from continuing operations, net income, any other affected financial statement line item, and any affected per share amount. For lessors, the new leasing standard requires leases to be classified as a sales-type, direct financing or operating leases. These criteria focus on the transfer of control of the underlying lease asset. This standard and related updates were effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years.  

The Company adopted the new standard on January 1, 2019, the effective date of our initial application, using the optional transition method. The Company has elected to carry forward the legacy (ASC 840) disclosures for comparative periods and therefore, did not adjust the comparative period financial information prior to January 1, 2019. In addition, the Company elected the package of practical expedients which allows for companies to not reassess whether any expired or existing contracts are or contain leases, not reassess historical lease classifications for expired or existing contracts and not reassess initial direct costs for existing leases. Additionally, the Company elected the practical expedients which allow the use of hindsight when determining the lease term, the short-term lease recognition exemption and the option to not separate lease and non-lease components. The adoption of this standard resulted in the recognition of a right-of-use asset and corresponding right-of-use liability on our Consolidated Balance Sheet of $10.3 million, mainly related to our operating leases for office space, automobiles and other equipment.  


As a lessee, the adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Statement of Income or Statement of Cash Flow. See Note 12 for additional information.  

As a lessor, the adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet, Consolidated Statement of Income or Statement of Cash Flow. Prior to and after adoption, all of our leases in which we are the lessor were classified as sales-types leases.  






Contingent liabilities with a fair value totaling $1.2 million were recognized at the acquisition date, the payments of which are dependent upon SmartRG achieving future revenue, EBIT or customer purchase order milestones during the first half of 2019. The contingent payments are subject to arbitration and the final payouts, if applicable, are expected to occur during the third quarter of 2019. The minimum and maximum potential payment under the total of the contingent liabilities ranges from no payment to $1.5 million. As of March 31, 2019, the fair value of the contingent liability was re-assessed and was determined to be $1.2 million, based on the expected probable outcomes. No change in fair value was recognized during the three months ended March 31, 2019. 

An escrow in the amount of $2.8 million was set up at the acquisition date, to fund post-closing working capital settlements and to indemnify the Company from any inaccuracy or breach of representations, warranties, covenants, agreements or obligations of the sellers. The escrow is subject to arbitration with final settlement expected during the fourth quarter of 2020. The minimum and maximum potential release of funds to the seller ranges from no payment to $2.8 million.  

We recorded goodwill of $3.5 million as a result of this acquisition, which represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired. We assessed the recognition and measurement of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on historical and forecasted data for future periods and concluded that our valuation procedures and resulting measures were appropriate. 



We recorded a bargain purchase gain, net of income taxes, of $11.3 million during the first quarter of 2018, which represents the difference between the fair value of the net assets acquired over the cash paid. We assessed the recognition and measurement of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on historical and forecasted data for future periods and concluded that our valuation procedures and resulting measures were appropriate. 








The following unaudited supplemental pro forma information presents the financial results of the Company as if the acquisition of SmartRG and Sumitomo had occurred on January 1, 2018. This unaudited supplemental pro forma information does not purport to be indicative of what would have occurred had the acquisition been completed on January 1, 2018, nor is it indicative of any future results. Aside from revising the 2018 net income for the effect of the bargain purchase gain, there were no material, non-recurring adjustments to this unaudited pro forma information. 


For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, we incurred acquisition and integration related expenses and amortization of acquired intangibles of $1.3 million and $0.2 million respectively, related to these acquisitions. 


The following is a description of the principal activities from which we generate our revenue by reportable segment. 

Network Solutions Segment 

Network Solutions includes hardware products and software-defined next-generation virtualized solutions used in service provider or business networks, as well as prior generation products. The majority of the revenue from this segment is from hardware sales. In certain transactions, we are also the lessor in sales-type lease arrangements for network equipment. These arrangements typically include network equipment, network implementation services and maintenance services. See Note 12 for additional information. 


To complement our Network Solutions segment, we offer a complete portfolio of maintenance, network implementation and solutions integration and managed services, which include hosted cloud services and subscription services.  











As of March 31, 2019, we did not have any significant performance obligations related to customer contracts that had an original expected duration of one year or more, other than maintenance services, which are satisfied over time. 



$6.9 million of the outstanding unearned revenue balance at December 31, 2018 was recognized as revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2019. 


Our effective tax rate increased from an expense of 15.1%, excluding the tax effect of the bargain purchase gain, in the three months ended March 31, 2018, to an expense of 28.6% in the three months ended March 31, 2019. The increase in the effective tax rate between the two periods is primarily driven by the shift to profitability in the current quarter. 

The Company continually reviews the adequacy of the valuation allowance and recognizes the benefits of deferred tax assets only as the reassessment indicates that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be recognized in accordance with ASC 740, Income Taxes (ASC 740). As of March 31, 2019, we had net deferred tax assets of $36.9 million. Since management continues to assess the realization of these deferred tax assets and related valuation allowance(s), as such, we may release a portion of the valuation allowance or establish a new valuation allowance based on operations in the jurisdictions in which these assets arose. Our assessment includes the evaluation of evidence, some of which requires significant judgment, including historical operating results, the evaluation of three-year cumulative income, future taxable income and tax planning strategies. Should management determine a valuation allowance is needed in the future due to not being able to absorb loss carryforwards, it could have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. 

5. PENSION BENEFIT PLAN 

We maintain a defined benefit pension plan covering employees in certain foreign countries. 



The components of net periodic pension cost other than the service cost component are included in other income (expense), net in the Consolidated Statements of Income. Service cost are included in cost of sales, selling, general and administrative expenses and research and development expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 





Stock Options 



At March 31, 2019, total unrecognized compensation expense related to non-vested stock options was approximately $0.6 million, which is expected to be recognized over an average remaining recognition period of 0.7 years. 

All of the options above were issued at exercise prices that approximated fair market value at the date of grant. At March 31, 2019, 2.4 million options were available for grant under the shareholder-approved plans. 

The aggregate intrinsic values in the table above represent the total pre-tax intrinsic value (the difference between ADTRAN’s closing stock price on the last trading day of the quarter and the exercise price, multiplied by the number of in-the-money options) that would have been received by the option holders had all option holders exercised their options on March 31, 2019. The amount of aggregate intrinsic value will change based on the fair market value of ADTRAN’s stock. The total pre-tax intrinsic value of options exercised during the three months ended March 31, 2019 was zero.  

The fair value of our stock options is estimated using the Black-Scholes model. The determination of the fair value of stock options on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes model is affected by our stock price, as well as assumptions regarding a number of complex and subjective variables that may have a significant impact on the fair value estimate. The stock option pricing model requires the use of several assumptions that impact the fair value estimate. These variables include, but are not limited to, the volatility of our stock price and employee exercise behaviors. 

There were no stock options granted during the three months ended March 31, 2019 or 2018. 


 PSUs, RSUs and restricted stock 



The fair value of our PSUs with market conditions is calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation valuation method. The fair value of RSUs and restricted stock is equal to the closing price of our stock on the business day immediately preceding the grant date.  

At March 31, 2019, total unrecognized compensation expense related to the non-vested portion of market-based PSUs, RSUs and restricted stock was approximately $16.1 million, which is expected to be recognized over an average remaining recognition period of 2.8 years. In addition, there was $9.0 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to the unvested 2017 performance-based PSUs, which will be recognized over the remaining requisite service period of 0.8 years if achievement of the performance obligation becomes probable. For the three months ending March 31, 2019 and 2018, no compensation expense was recognized related to these performance-based PSUs. 


Debt Securities and Other Investments 








Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities because some borrowers have the right to call or prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties. 



Our investment policy provides limitations for issuer concentration, which limits, at the time of purchase, the concentration in any one issuer to 5% of the market value of our total investment portfolio. 

At March 31, 2019, we held a $25.6 million restricted certificate of deposit that is carried at cost. This investment serves as a collateral deposit against the principal amount outstanding under loans made to ADTRAN pursuant to an Alabama State Industrial Development Authority revenue bond (the Bond), which totaled $25.6 million at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018. At March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the estimated fair value of the Bond using a level 2 valuation technique was approximately $25.5 million and $25.4 million, respectively, based on a debt security with a comparable interest rate and maturity and a Standard and Poor’s credit rating of AAA. We have the right to set-off the balance of the Bond with the collateral deposit in order to reduce the balance of the indebtedness. The Bond matures on January 1, 2020, and bears interest at the rate of 2% per annum. In conjunction with this program, we are eligible to receive certain economic incentives from the state of Alabama that reduce the amount of payroll withholdings we are required to remit to the state for those employment positions that qualify under this program. We are required to make payments in the amounts necessary to pay the interest on the amounts currently outstanding. It is our intent to make annual principal payments in addition to the interest amounts that are due. The restricted funds held as collateral against the principal amount of the Bond will be used to pay the outstanding principal and interest upon the Bond’s maturity on January 1, 2020. 

Marketable Equity Securities 

Our marketable equity securities consist of publicly traded stock, funds and certain other investments measured at fair value or cost (where appropriate).  

On January 1, 2018, we adopted ASU 2016-01, which requires us to measure all equity investments that do not result in consolidation and are not accounted for under the equity method at fair value, with any changes in fair value recognized in net investment gain (loss). Upon adoption, we reclassified $3.2 million of net unrealized gains related to marketable equity securities from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to retained earnings. 

ASU 2016-01 also provides a measurement alternative for equity investments that do not have a readily determinable fair value in which investments can be recorded at cost less impairment, if any, adjusted for observable price changes for an identical or similar investment. We elected to record our equity investment that does not have a readily determinable fair value using the measurement alternative method. The carrying value of this investment was $3.4 million and $0 as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively. 




As of March 31, 2019 and 2018, gross unrealized losses related to individual investments in a continuous loss position for twelve months or longer were not significant. 





The fair value of our Level 2 securities is calculated using a weighted average market price for each security. Market prices are obtained from a variety of industry standard data providers, security master files from large financial institutions, and other third-party sources. These multiple market prices are used as inputs into a distribution-curve-based algorithm to determine the daily market value of each security.  

8. DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES 

We participate in foreign exchange forward contracts in connection with the management of exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. 

Cash Flow Hedges 

Our cash flow hedging activities utilize foreign exchange forward contracts to reduce the risk that movements in exchange rates will adversely affect the net cash flows resulting from the planned purchase of products from foreign suppliers. Purchases of U.S. denominated inventory by our European subsidiary represent our primary exposure. Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are not recognized in current operating results, but are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income. Amounts related to cash flow hedges are reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income when the underlying hedged item impacts earnings. This reclassification is recorded in cost of sales, the same line item of the Consolidated Statements of Income at which the effects of the hedged item are recorded. 

Undesignated Hedges 

We have certain customers and suppliers who are invoiced or pay in a non-functional currency. Changes in the monetary exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, as outstanding non-functional balances are revalued to the functional currency through profit and loss. When appropriate, we utilize foreign exchange forward contracts to help manage the volatility relating to these valuation exposures. All changes in the fair value of our derivative instruments that do not qualify for, or are not designated for hedged accounting transactions, are recognized as other income (expense), net in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 

We do not hold or issue derivative instruments for trading or other speculative purposes. Our derivative instruments are recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at their fair values. Our derivative instruments are not subject to master netting arrangements and are not offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 

As of March 31, 2019, we had no foreign exchange forward contracts. 







We establish reserves for estimated excess, obsolete, or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the cost of the inventory and the estimated fair value of the inventory based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. At March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, raw materials reserves totaled $17.1 million and $17.6 million, respectively, and finished goods inventory reserves totaled $12.8 million and $12.4 million, respectively. 



We evaluate the carrying value of goodwill during the fourth quarter of each year and between annual evaluations if events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the reporting unit below its carrying amount. We have elected to first assess the qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit to which the goodwill is assigned is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the two-step impairment test. If we determine that it is more likely than not that its fair value is less than its carrying amount, then the two-step impairment test will be performed. Based on the results of our qualitative assessment in 2018, we concluded that it was not necessary to perform the two-step impairment test.  



Intangible assets include intangibles acquired in conjunction with several acquisitions since 2011, with the most recent being SmartRG, Inc. in November 2018 and SEI’s North American EPON business and technology license and OEM supply agreement with SEI in March 2018. 



Amortization expense was $1.3 million and $0.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 respectively. 




Operating Lease Arrangements 

We have operating leases for office space, automobiles, and other equipment in the United States and in various international locations in which we do business. We also have other contracts such as, manufacturing agreements and service agreements, which we review to determine if they contain an embedded lease. We specifically review these other contracts to determine whether we have the right to substantially all of the economic benefit from the use of any specified assets or the right to direct the use of any specified assets, either of which would indicate the existence of a lease.  

As of March 31, 2019, our leases have remaining lease terms of one month to six years, some of which include options to extend the leases for up to 3 years, and some of which include options to terminate the leases within 3 months. For those leases that are reasonably assured to be renewed, we have included the option to extend as part of our right of use asset and right of use liability included on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Leases with an initial term of 12 months or less are not recorded on the balance sheet and lease expense for these leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Lease expense related to these short-term leases was $0.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, and is included in selling, general and administrative expenses on the Consolidated Statement of Income. For lease agreements entered into or reassessed after the adoption of Topic 842, we elected the practical expedient which allows us to not separate lease and non-lease components. None of our lease agreements contain any material residual value guarantees or material restrictive covenants. 








Operating lease payments include $1.2 million related to options to extend lease terms that are reasonably certain of being exercised and there are no legally binding leases that have not yet commenced.  




Certain renewal options were subsequently determined to not be reasonably assured of renewal upon adoption of the new lease standard.  


Our leases do not provide an implicit borrowing rate and therefore we use an incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments. We used the incremental borrowing rate on January 1, 2019, for operating leases that commenced on or prior to that date. The incremental borrowing rate was determined on a portfolio basis by grouping leases with similar terms as well as grouping leases based on a U.S. dollar or Euro functional currency. The actual rate is then determined based on a credit spread over LIBOR as well as the Bloomberg Curve Matrix for the U.S. Communications section.  




Sales-Type Lease Arrangements 









A significant portion of these future minimum lease payments relates to one of our customers who filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in February 2019. In March 2019, we reached an agreement with this customer and they continue to make payments as outlined in the lease agreements. Therefore, we believe there is no potential risk of uncollectibility related to these outstanding balances. 


Stock Repurchase Program 

Since 1997, our Board of Directors has approved multiple share repurchase programs that have authorized open market repurchase transactions of our common stock, which are implemented through open market or private purchases from time to time as conditions warrant. During the three months ended March 31, 2019, we repurchased 13,000 shares of our common stock at an average price of $14.06 per share. As of March 31, 2019, we have the authority to purchase an additional 2.5 million shares of our common stock under the current authorization of up to 5.0 million shares. 

Other Comprehensive Income 

Other comprehensive income consists of unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale debt securities; reclassification adjustments for amounts included in net income related to impairments of available-for-sale debt securities, realized gains (losses) on available-for-sale debt securities, realized gains (losses) on cash flow hedges, amortization of actuarial gains (losses) related to our defined benefit plan, defined benefit plan adjustments, and foreign currency translation adjustments. 




With the adoption of ASU 2018-02, the stranded tax effects related to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 were reclassified to retained earnings. See Note 1. 




With the adoption of ASU 2016-01, the unrealized gains on our equity investments were reclassified to retained earnings. 





Included in the computation of net periodic pension cost. See Note 5. 



Included in the computation of net periodic pension cost. See Note 5. 




14. EARNINGS (LOSS) PER SHARE 



For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, 2.9 million and 4.8 million stock options were outstanding but were not included in the computation of diluted earnings (loss) per share because the stock options’ exercise prices were greater than the average market price of the common shares, therefore making them anti-dilutive under the treasury stock method. 




We evaluate the performance of our segments based on gross profit; therefore, selling, general and administrative expenses, research and development expenses, interest and dividend income, interest expense, net investment gain (loss), other income (expense) and (provision) benefit for income taxes are reported on a company-wide, functional basis only. There is no inter-segment revenue. 

The following table presents information about the reported sales and gross profit of our reportable segments for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018. We do not produce asset information by reportable segment; therefore, it is not reported. 


Sales by Category 






16. LIABILITY FOR WARRANTY RETURNS 

Our products generally include warranties of 90 days to five years for product defects. We accrue for warranty returns at the time revenue is recognized based on our estimate of the cost to repair or replace the defective products. We engage in extensive product quality programs and processes, including actively monitoring and evaluating the quality of our component suppliers. Our products continue to become more complex in both size and functionality as many of our product offerings migrate from line card applications to total systems. The increasing complexity of our products will cause warranty incidences, when they arise, to be more costly. Our estimates regarding future warranty obligations may change due to product failure rates, material usage and other rework costs incurred in correcting a product failure. In addition, from time to time, specific warranty accruals may be recorded if unforeseen problems arise. Should our actual experience relative to these factors be worse than our estimates, we will be required to record additional warranty expense. Alternatively, if we provide for more reserves than we require, we will reverse a portion of such provisions in future periods. The liability for warranty obligations totaled $8.8 million and $8.6 million at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, which are included in accrued expenses in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet. 




17. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES 

In the ordinary course of business, we may be subject to various legal proceedings and claims, including employment disputes, patent claims, disputes over contract agreements and other commercial disputes. In some cases, claimants seek damages or other relief, such as royalty payments related to patents, which, if granted, could require significant expenditures. Although the outcome of any claim or litigation can never be certain, it is our opinion that the outcome of all contingencies of which we are currently aware will not materially affect our business, operations, financial condition or cash flows. 

We have committed to invest up to an aggregate of $7.9 million in two private equity funds, and we have contributed $8.4 million as of March 31, 2019, of which $7.7 million has been applied to these commitments. 


In February 2019, we announced the restructuring of our workforce predominantly in Germany, which included the closure of the office location in Munich, Germany accompanied by relocation or severance benefits for the affected employees. The restructuring is expected to be completed in the fourth quarter of 2019. The cumulative amount incurred during the three months ended March 31, 2019 related to this restructuring program is $1.8 million. We also offered a voluntary early retirement offering to certain other employees which was announced to employees in March 2019. As of March 31, 2019, we did not have sufficient information on which to estimate an additional liability associated with the voluntary early retirement program. 

In January 2018, we announced an early retirement incentive program for employees that met certain requirements. The cumulative amount incurred during the year ended December 31, 2018 related to this restructuring program was $7.3 million, of which $6.0 million was incurred during the three months ended March 31, 2018. We do not expect to incur any additional expenses related to this restructuring program. 







On April 17, 2019, we announced that our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per common share to be paid to stockholders of record at the close of business on May 2, 2019. The payment date will be May 16, 2019. The quarterly dividend payment will be approximately $4.3 million. In July 2003, our Board of Directors elected to begin declaring quarterly dividends on our common stock considering the tax treatment of dividends and adequate levels of Company liquidity. 

A voluntary early retirement offering was communicated to certain of our employees in Germany in March 2019. These employees were given until April 28, 2019 to accept the early retirement offering. Therefore, as of March 31, 2019, we did not have sufficient information on which to estimate the liability associated with this program. The Company expects to incur approximately $0.8 million in restructuring expense during the second quarter of 2019 related to the early retirement program. 


ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes that appear in Item 1 of this document. 

OVERVIEW 


We are focused on being a top global supplier of access infrastructure and related value-added solutions from the cloud edge to the subscriber edge. We offer a broad portfolio of flexible software and hardware network solutions and services that enable service providers to meet today’s service demands, while enabling them to transition to the fully-converged, scalable, highly-automated, cloud-controlled voice, data, internet and video network of the future. 


Our business is global. We supply different sets of products to different customers in different regions around the world. Our financial results in any period reflect the activities of our various customers in their respective regions at any given time. The lead times to revenue for new products vary.  








See Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of this Form 10-Q for further information regarding these product categories. 

Our operating results have fluctuated on a quarterly basis in the past, and may vary significantly in future periods, due to a number of factors, including customer order activity and backlog. Backlog levels vary because of seasonal trends, the timing of customer projects and other factors that affect customer order lead times. Many of our customers require prompt delivery of products. This requires us to maintain sufficient inventory levels to satisfy anticipated customer demand. If near-term demand for our products declines, or if potential sales in any quarter do not occur as anticipated, our financial results could be adversely affected. Operating expenses are relatively fixed in the short term; therefore, a shortfall in quarterly revenue could significantly impact our financial results in a given quarter. 

Our operating results may also fluctuate as a result of a number of other factors, including a decline in general economic and market conditions, foreign currency exchange rate movements, increased competition, customer order patterns, changes in product and services mix, timing differences between price decreases and product cost reductions, product warranty returns, expediting costs and announcements of new products by us or our competitors. Additionally, maintaining sufficient inventory levels to assure prompt delivery of our products increases the amount of inventory that may become obsolete and increases the risk that the obsolescence of this inventory may have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. Also, not maintaining sufficient inventory levels to assure prompt delivery of our products may cause us to incur expediting costs to meet customer delivery requirements, which may negatively impact our operating results in a given quarter. 

Accordingly, our historical financial performance is not necessarily a meaningful indicator of future results, and in general, management expects that our financial results may vary from period to period. Factors that could materially affect our business, financial condition or operating results are included in Item 1A of Part I in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, filed on February 28, 2019, with the SEC and in Part II Item 1A herein. 

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES 

Our critical accounting policies and estimates have not changed significantly from those detailed in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, filed on February 28, 2019, with the SEC. 

EFFECT OF RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS 

See Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of this Form 10-Q for a full description of recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects on results of operations and financial condition, which is incorporated herein by reference. 


RESULTS OF OPERATIONS – THREE MONTHS ENDED MARCH 31, 2019 COMPARED TO THREE MONTHS ENDED MARCH 31, 2018 

The following table presents selected financial information derived from our Consolidated Statements of Income expressed as a percentage of sales for the quarters indicated. Amounts may not foot due to rounding. 


SALES 







COST OF SALES 

As a percentage of sales, cost of sales decreased from 67.1% in the three months ended March 31, 2018 to 57.8% in the three months ended March 31, 2019. The decrease in cost of sales as a percentage of sales for the three months ended March 31, 2019 is primarily attributable to a regional revenue shift, customer and product mix, services and support mix and a decrease in labor expense as a result of a restructuring program in the first quarter of 2018. 

Network Solutions cost of sales, as a percent of that segment’s sales, decreased from 65.2% in the three months ended March 31, 2018 to 56.2% in the three months ended March 31, 2019. The decrease in cost of sales as a percentage of sales for the three months ended March 31, 2019 is primarily attributable to a regional revenue shift, customer and product mix and a decrease in labor expense due to a restructuring program in the first quarter of 2018. 






SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES 

Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 4.8% from $33.5 million in the three months ended March 31, 2018 to $35.1 million in the three months ended March 31, 2019. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2019 is primarily attributable to increases in deferred compensation expense and incremental expenses as a result of the SmartRG acquisition. 

As a percentage of sales, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased from 27.8% in the three months ended March 31, 2018 to 24.4% in the three months ended March 31, 2019. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales may fluctuate whenever there is a significant fluctuation in revenue for the periods being compared. 

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENSES 

Research and development expenses decreased 3.7% from $32.8 million in the three months ended March 31, 2018 to $31.6 million in the three months ended March 31, 2019. The decrease in research and development expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2019 is primarily attributable to decreases in restructuring and labor expenses, partially offset by an increase in incremental expenses as a result of the SmartRG and Sumitomo acquisitions. 

As a percentage of sales, research and development expenses decreased from 27.2% in the three months ended March 31, 2018 to 22.0% in the three months ended March 31, 2019. Research and development expenses as a percentage of sales will fluctuate whenever there are incremental product development activities or significant fluctuations in revenue for the periods being compared. 

We expect to continue to incur research and development expenses in connection with our new and existing products and our continued expansion into international markets. We continually evaluate new product opportunities and engage in intensive research and product development efforts, which provides for new product development, enhancement of existing products and product cost reductions. We may incur significant research and development expenses prior to the receipt of revenue from a major new product group. 

INTEREST AND DIVIDEND INCOME 

Interest and dividend income decreased 31.8% from $0.9 million in the three months ended March 31, 2018 to $0.6 million in the three months ended March 31, 2019. The decrease in interest and dividend income for the three months ended March 31, 2019 is primarily attributable to fluctuations in investment balances. 

INTEREST EXPENSE 

Interest expense, which is primarily related to our taxable revenue bond, remained constant at $0.1 million for both the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2019, as we had no substantial change in our fixed-rate borrowing. See “Liquidity and Capital Resources” below for additional information on our revenue bond. 

NET INVESTMENT GAIN (LOSS) 

Net investment gain (loss) increased from a loss of $(0.1) million in the three months ended March 31, 2018 to a gain of $5.9 million in the three months ended March 31, 2019. The fluctuation in our net investment gain (loss) is primarily attributable to changes in fair value on equity securities recognized during the period. See Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 1 of this report, and “Investing Activities” in “Liquidity and Capital Resources” for additional information. 

OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE), NET 

Other income (expense), net, is comprised primarily of miscellaneous income, gains and losses on foreign currency transactions and gains and losses on foreign exchange forward contracts. Other income (expense), net increased from $0.1 million of expense in the three months ended March 31, 2018 to $0.9 million of income in the three months ended March 31, 2019. The change in other income (expense), net for the three months ended March 31, 2019 is primarily attributable to the receipt of insurance proceeds from a life insurance policy. 


GAIN ON BARGAIN PURCHASE OF A BUSINESS, NET 

Gain on bargain purchase of a business was $11.3 million during the three months ended March 31, 2018 and is related to our acquisition of Sumitomo Electric Lightwave Corp.’s North American EPON business and entry into a technology license and supply agreement with Sumitomo Electric Industries, Ltd. in March 2018. No gain on bargain purchase of a business was recorded during the three months ended March 31, 2019. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of this report for additional information. 


Our effective tax rate increased from a benefit of 15.1%, excluding the tax effect of the bargain purchase gain, in the three months ended March 31, 2018 to an expense of 28.6% three months ended March 31, 2019. The increase in the effective tax rate between the two periods is primarily driven by the shift to profitability in the current quarter. 

NET INCOME (LOSS) 

As a result of the above factors, net income increased $11.6 million from a net loss of $10.8 million in the three months ended March 31, 2018 to net income of $0.8 million in the three months ended March 31, 2019.  

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 

Liquidity 

We intend to finance our operations with cash flow from operations. We have used, and expect to continue to use, the cash generated from operations for working capital, purchases of treasury stock, shareholder dividends, business acquisitions and other general corporate purposes, including (i) product development activities to enhance our existing products and develop new products and (ii) expansion of sales and marketing activities. We believe our cash and cash equivalents, investments and cash generated from operations to be adequate to meet our operating and capital needs for at least the next 12 months. 

At March 31, 2019, cash on hand was $109.1 million and short-term investments were $31.3 million, which resulted in available short-term liquidity of $140.4 million, of which $70.2 million was held by our foreign subsidiaries. At December 31, 2018, cash on hand was $105.5 million and short-term investments were $3.2 million, which resulted in available short-term liquidity of $108.7 million, of which $87.1 million was held by our foreign subsidiaries. The increase in short-term liquidity from December 31, 2018 to March 31, 2019 is primarily attributable to the restricted certificate of deposit totaling $25.6 million being reclassified from a long-term investment to a short-term investment. 

Operating Activities 

Our working capital, which consists of current assets less current liabilities, decreased 0.8% from $237.4 million as of December 31, 2018 to $235.4 million as of March 31, 2019, and our current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, decreased from 3.01 as of December 31, 2018 to 2.66 as of March 31, 2019. The decreases in our working capital and current ratio are primarily attributable to the reclassification of our bond payable to current liabilities as it matures in January 2020 as well as a decrease in inventory. The quick ratio, defined as cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, and net accounts receivable, divided by current liabilities, decreased from 1.76 as of December 31, 2018 to 1.69 as of March 31, 2019. The decrease in the quick ratio is primarily attributable to the reclassification of our bond payable to current liabilities as it matures in January 2020, partially offset by an increase in cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, mainly related to the reclassification of our restricted certificate of deposit from a long-term investment to a short-term investment. 

Net accounts receivable decreased 0.4% from $99.4 million at December 31, 2018 to $99.0 million at March 31, 2019. Our allowance for doubtful accounts was $0.1 million at December 31, 2018 and March 31, 2019. Quarterly accounts receivable day’s sales outstanding (DSO) decreased from 65 days as of December 31, 2018 to 62 days as of March 31, 2019. The decrease in net accounts receivable is due to the timing of international shipments and customer mix. 

Other receivables decreased 5.8% from $36.7 million at December 31, 2018 to $34.6 million at March 31, 2019. The decrease in other receivables is primarily attributable to a decrease in contract assets, leased equipment receivables and income tax receivables partially offset by an increase in contract manufacturers’ receivables. 

Quarterly inventory turnover increased from 3.29 turns as of December 31, 2018 to 3.44 turns at March 31, 2019. Inventory decreased 6.2% from $99.8 million at December 31, 2018 to $93.6 million at March 31, 2019. We expect inventory levels to fluctuate as we attempt to maintain sufficient inventory in response to services activity and seasonal cycles of our business, ensuring competitive lead times while managing the risk of inventory obsolescence that may occur due to rapidly changing technology and customer demand. 


Accounts payable remained consistent at $60.1 million at December 31, 2018 and March 31, 2019. Accounts payable will fluctuate due to variations in the timing of the receipt of supplies, inventory and services and our subsequent payments for these purchases. 

Investing Activities 

Capital expenditures totaled approximately $1.9 million and $2.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. These expenditures were primarily used to purchase computer hardware, software, manufacturing and test equipment and building improvements. 

Our combined short-term and long-term investments increased $4.4 million from $112.1 million at December 31, 2018 to $116.5 million at March 31, 2019. This increase reflects the impact of net realized and unrealized gains and losses on our combined investments plus new investments, partially offset by cash used for share repurchases, shareholder dividends and property, plant and equipment purchases. 


Our long-term investments decreased 21.7% from $108.8 million at December 31, 2018 to $85.2 million at March 31, 2019. Long-term investments at December 31, 2018 included an investment in a certificate of deposit of $25.6 million, which serves as collateral for our revenue bond. This certificate of deposit is now included in short-term investments as of March 31, 2019, as this bond matures on January 1, 2020. See “Debt” below for additional information. We also have investments in various marketable equity securities classified as long-term investments with a fair market value of $30.9 million and $27.0 million, at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively. Long-term investments at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 also included $20.4 million and $18.3 million, respectively, related to our deferred compensation plans. 

Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired, totaled $7.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018. No businesses were acquired during the three months ended March 31, 2019. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of this report for additional information. 

Financing Activities 

Dividends 

In July 2003, our Board of Directors elected to begin declaring quarterly dividends on our common stock considering the tax treatment of dividends and adequate levels of Company liquidity. During the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, we paid dividends totaling $4.3 million and $4.4 million, respectively. 

Debt 



Stock Repurchase Program 

Since 1997, our Board of Directors has approved multiple share repurchase programs that have authorized open market repurchase transactions of our common stock, which are implemented through open market or private purchases from time to time as conditions warrant. During the three months ended March 31, 2019, we repurchased 13,000 shares of our common stock, for $0.2 million at an average price of $14.06 per share. We currently have authorization to repurchase an additional 2.5 million shares of our common stock under the current authorization of up to 5.0 million shares. 

Stock Option Exercises 

There were no stock options exercised during the three months ended March 31, 2019.  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations 

We do not have off-balance sheet financing arrangements and have not engaged in any related party transactions or arrangements with unconsolidated entities or other persons that are reasonably likely to materially affect liquidity or the availability of or requirements for capital resources. During the three months ended March 31, 2019, there have been no material changes in contractual obligations and commercial commitments from those discussed in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 filed on February 28, 2019 with the SEC. 

We have committed to invest up to an aggregate of $7.9 million in two private equity funds, and we have contributed $8.4 million as of March 31, 2019, of which $7.7 million has been applied to these commitments.  


ITEM 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 


We maintain depository investments with certain financial institutions. Although these depository investments may exceed government insured depository limits, we have evaluated the credit-worthiness of these financial institutions, and determined the risk of material financial loss due to exposure of such credit risk to be minimal. As of March 31, 2019, $106.2 million of our cash and cash equivalents, primarily certain domestic money market funds and foreign depository accounts, were in excess of government provided insured depository limits. 

As of March 31, 2019, approximately $37.1 million of our cash and investments may be directly affected by changes in interest rates. We have performed a hypothetical sensitivity analysis assuming market interest rates increase or decrease by 50 basis points (bps) for an entire year, while all other variables remain constant. At March 31, 2019, we held $10.1 million of cash and variable-rate investments where a change in interest rates would impact our interest income. A hypothetical 50 bps decline in interest rates as of March 31, 2019 would reduce annualized interest income on our cash and investments by approximately $0.1 million. In addition, we held $26.9 million of fixed-rate bonds whose fair values may be directly affected by a change in interest rates. A hypothetical 50 bps increase in interest rates as of March 31, 2019 would reduce the fair value of our fixed-rate bonds by approximately $0.1 million. 

We are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates to the extent that such changes affect our revenue and gross margin on revenue derived from some international customers, expenses, and assets and liabilities held in non-functional currencies related to our foreign subsidiaries. Our primary exposures to foreign currency exchange rates are with our German subsidiary, whose functional currency is the Euro, our Australian subsidiary, whose functional currency is the Australian dollar, and our Mexican subsidiary, whose functional currency is the U.S. dollar. We are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates to the extent of our German subsidiary’s use of contract manufacturers and raw material suppliers whom we predominately pay in U.S. dollars. We may establish cash flow hedges utilizing foreign exchange forward contracts to reduce the risk that movements in exchange rates will adversely affect the net cash flows resulting from the planned purchase of products from foreign suppliers. As a result, changes in currency exchange rates could cause variations in gross margin in the products that we sell in the EMEA region. 

We have certain customers and suppliers who are invoiced or pay in a non-functional currency. Changes in the monetary exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, as outstanding non-functional balances are revalued to the functional currency through profit and loss. When appropriate, we utilize foreign exchange forward contracts to help manage the volatility relating to these valuation exposures. All changes in the fair value of our derivative instruments that do not qualify for or are not designated for hedged accounting transactions are recognized as other income (expense), net in the Consolidated Statements of Income. We do not hold or issue derivative instruments for trading or other speculative purposes. All non-functional currencies billed would result in a combined hypothetical gain or loss of $1.1 million if the U.S. dollar weakened or strengthened 10% against the billing currencies. The fluctuation compared to prior periods is due to an increase in U.S. dollar-denominated billings in a non-U.S. dollar denominated subsidiary as well as an increase in international sales. Although we do not currently hold any derivative instruments, any gain or loss would be partially mitigated by these derivative instruments. 

As of March 31, 2019, we have certain material contracts, including accounts receivable, accounts payable and lease liabilities, denominated in foreign currencies. As of March 31, 2019, we did not have any forward contracts outstanding. 

For further information about the fair value of our investments and our derivative and hedging activities as of March 31, 2019, see Notes 7 and 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of this report. 


ITEM 4. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 




PART II. OTHER INFORMATION 

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 

A list of factors that could materially affect our business, financial condition or operating results is described in Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. There have been no material changes to our risk factors since our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. 

ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS 



On July 14, 2015, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of an additional 5.0 million shares of our common stock (bringing the total shares authorized for repurchase to 50.0 million). This authorization will be implemented through open market or private purchases from time to time as conditions warrant. 


ITEM 6. EXHIBITS 

Exhibits. 



SIGNATURE 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 


