

UNITED STATES 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 





QUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 

For the quarterly period ended September 30, 2018 

OR 


TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 



ADTRAN, Inc. 






Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company,” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 




As of October 26, 2018, the registrant had 47,650,245 shares of common stock, $0.01 par value per share, outstanding. 

ADTRAN, Inc. 

Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q 

For the Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2018 

Table of Contents 


FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS 

The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of ADTRAN. ADTRAN and its representatives may from time to time make written or oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in this report, our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and other communications with our stockholders. Generally, the words, “believe”, “expect”, “intend”, “estimate”, “anticipate”, “will”, “may”, “could” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. We caution you that any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf are subject to uncertainties and other factors that could cause such statements to be wrong. A list of factors that could materially affect our business, financial condition or operating results is included under “Factors that Could Affect Our Future Results” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” contained in Item 2 of Part I of this report. They have also been discussed in Item 1A of Part I in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed on February 23, 2018 with the SEC. Though we have attempted to list comprehensively these important factors, we caution investors that other factors may prove to be important in the future in affecting our operating results. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict all of these factors, nor can we assess the impact each factor or a combination of factors may have on our business. 

You are further cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements because they speak only of our views as of the date that the statements were made. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. 


PART I. FINANCIAL INFORMATION 

ITEM 1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

ADTRAN, INC. 

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 




See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 


ADTRAN, INC. 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 




See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 


ADTRAN, INC. 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 




See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 


ADTRAN, INC. 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 




See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 


ADTRAN, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

Basis of Presentation 

The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements of ADTRAN®, Inc. and its subsidiaries (ADTRAN) have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations for reporting on Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Accordingly, certain information and notes required by generally accepted accounting principles for complete financial statements are not included herein. The December 31, 2017 Consolidated Balance Sheet is derived from audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. 

In the opinion of management, all adjustments necessary to fairly state these interim statements have been recorded and are of a normal and recurring nature. The results of operations for an interim period are not necessarily indicative of the results for the full year. The interim statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and notes thereto included in ADTRAN’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed on February 23, 2018 with the SEC. 

Use of Estimates 

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenue and expense during the reporting period. Our more significant estimates include the obsolete and excess inventory reserves, warranty reserves, customer rebates, determination of the deferred revenue components of multiple element sales agreements, estimated costs to complete obligations associated with deferred revenues, estimated income tax provision and income tax contingencies, the fair value of stock-based compensation, impairment of goodwill, valuation and estimated lives of intangible assets, estimated pension liability, fair value of investments, and the evaluation of other-than-temporary declines in the value of investments. Actual amounts could differ significantly from these estimates. 

Recent Accounting Pronouncements 

In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842). ASU 2016-02 requires an entity to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and to disclose key information about the entity's leasing arrangements. In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-10, Codification Improvements to Topic 842, Leases, which clarified certain aspects of ASU 2016-02, as well as, ASU 2018-11, Leases (Topic 842), Targeted Improvements, which provides for an optional transition method that allows for the application of current legacy guidance, including its disclosure requirements, in the comparative periods presented in the year of adoption. Otherwise, Topic 842 must be adopted by a modified retrospective method, with elective reliefs, which requires application of the new guidance for all periods presented. The Company plans to use the optional transition method when adopting the new standard. ASU 2016-02, ASU 2018-10 and ASU 2018-11 are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years. We anticipate the adoption of these ASUs will have a material increase in the assets and liabilities of our consolidated balance sheets; however, we do not believe adoption will have a material effect on our results of operations. We believe the most significant effect relates to our accounting for operating leases for office space.  







In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-13, Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820) Disclosure Framework-Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement, which changes the fair value measurement disclosure requirements of ASC 820, Fair Value Measurement. The amendments in this ASU are the result of a broader disclosure project called, Concepts Statement No. 8 - Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting — Chapter 8, Notes to Financial Statements, which the FASB finalized on August 28, 2018. The FASB used the guidance in the Concepts Statement to improve the effectiveness of ASC 820’s disclosure requirements. ASU 2018-13 provides users of financial statements with information about assets and liabilities measured at fair value in the statement of financial position or disclosed in the notes to the financial statements. More specifically ASU 2018-13 requires disclosures about the valuation techniques and inputs that are used to arrive at measures of fair value, including judgments and assumptions that are made in determining fair value. In addition, ASU 2018-13 requires disclosures regarding the uncertainty in the fair value measurements as of the reporting date and how changes in fair value measurements affect performance and cash flows. ASU 2018-13 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2019. We are currently evaluating the effect of ASU 2018-13, but we do not expect it will have a material effect on our financial statement disclosures. 



In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-15, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other-Internal-Use Software (Subtopic 350-40), Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That Is a Service Contract. ASU 2018-15 clarifies certain aspects of ASU 2015-05, Customer’s Accounting for Fees Paid in a Cloud Computing Arrangement. Specifically, ASU 2018-15 aligns the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementations costs incurred to develop or obtain internal use software. ASU 2018-15 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating whether to early adopt, but we do not expect it will have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. 



These ASUs primarily affected our network implementation service revenue performance obligations and contract costs. We are using the “output method” to measure network implementation services progress, which 1) accelerates revenue recognition for certain performance obligations related to service revenue arrangements that were previously deferred until customer acceptance and 2) requires capitalization and amortization of the incremental costs of obtaining a contract as described below.  

In connection with the adoption of the new revenue standard, effective January 1, 2018, we adopted ASC 340-40, Other Assets and Deferred Costs – Contracts with Customers, with respect to capitalization and amortization of incremental costs of obtaining a contract. As a result, certain costs of obtaining a contract, including sales commissions, will be capitalized, as the guidance requires the capitalization of all incremental costs incurred to obtain a contract with a customer that it would not have incurred if the contract had not been obtained, provided the costs are recoverable. The primary effect was the capitalization of certain sales commissions for our extended maintenance and support contracts in excess of one year and amortization of those costs over the period that the related revenue is recognized.  













We recorded a bargain purchase gain of $11.3 million during the first quarter of 2018, net of income taxes, which is subject to customary working capital adjustments between the parties. The bargain purchase gain of $11.3 million represents the difference between the fair value of the net assets acquired over the cash paid. SEI, an OEM supplier based in Japan, is the global market leader in EPON. SEI’s Broadband Networks Division, through its SEL subsidiary, operated a North American EPON business that included sales, marketing, support, and region-specific engineering development. The North American EPON market is primarily driven by the Tier 1 cable MSO operators and has developed more slowly than anticipated. Through the transaction, SEI divested its North American EPON assets and established a relationship with ADTRAN. The transfer of these assets to ADTRAN, which included key customer relationships and a required assumption by ADTRAN of relatively low incremental expenses, along with the value of the technology license and OEM supply agreement, resulted in the bargain purchase gain. We have assessed the recognition and measurement of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on historical and forecasted data for future periods and we have concluded that our valuation procedures and resulting measures were appropriate. 








The following unaudited supplemental pro forma information presents the financial results as if the acquisition had occurred on January 1, 2017. This unaudited supplemental pro forma information does not purport to be indicative of what would have occurred had the acquisition been completed on January 1, 2017, nor is it indicative of any future results. Aside from revising the 2017 and 2018 net income for the effect of the bargain purchase gain, there were no material, non-recurring adjustments to this unaudited pro forma information. 


For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, we incurred acquisition and integration related expenses and amortization of acquired intangibles of $0.7 million and $1.6 million, respectively, related to this acquisition. 


Revenue is measured based on the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for transferring goods or providing services to a customer and as performance obligations under the terms of the contract are satisfied. Generally, this occurs with the transfer of control of a product or service to the customer. For transactions where there are multiple performance obligations, we account for individual products and services separately if they are distinct (if a product or service is separately identifiable from other items and if a customer can benefit from it on its own or with other resources that are readily available to the customer). The consideration, including any discounts, is allocated between separate products and services based on their stand-alone selling prices. The stand-alone selling prices are determined based on the prices at which we sell the separate products and services and are allocated based on each item’s relative value to the total value of the products and services in the arrangement. For items that are not sold separately, we estimate stand-alone selling prices primarily using the “expected cost plus a margin” approach. Payment terms are typically 30 days. Shipping fees are recorded as revenue and the related cost is included in cost of sales. Sales, value-added, and other taxes collected concurrently with revenue-producing activities are excluded from revenue. Costs of obtaining a contract are capitalized and amortized over the period that the related revenue is recognized if greater than one year. We have elected to apply the practical expedient related to the incremental costs of obtaining contracts and recognize those costs as an expense when incurred if the amortization period of the assets is one year or less. These costs are included in selling, general and administrative expenses. Capitalized costs with an amortization period greater than one year were immaterial. 

The following is a description of the principal activities from which we generate our revenue by reportable segment. 

Network Solutions Segment 

Network Solutions includes hardware products and next-generation virtualized solutions used in service provider or business networks, as well as prior generation products.  


Hardware 

The majority of the revenue from this segment is from hardware sales and is recognized when control is transferred to our customers, which is generally when we ship the products. Shipping terms are generally FOB shipping point. Revenue is recorded net of estimated discounts and rebates using historical trends. Customers are typically invoiced when control is transferred and revenue is recognized. Our products generally include assurance-based warranties of 90 days to five years for product defects, which are accrued at the time revenue is recognized. 

In certain transactions, we are also the lessor in sales-type lease arrangements for network equipment that have terms of 18 months to five years. These arrangements typically include network equipment, network implementation services and maintenance services. Product revenue for these leases is generally recorded when we transfer control of the product to our customers. Revenue for network implementation and maintenance services is recognized as described below. Customers are typically invoiced and pay in equal installments over the lease term. In relation to these lease agreements, during the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, we recognized revenue of $4.2 million and $8.4 million, respectively, and during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 we recognized revenue of $10.5 million and $15.4 million, respectively. 


To complement our Network Solutions segment, we offer a complete portfolio of maintenance, network implementation, and solutions integration and managed services, which include hosted cloud services and subscription services.  

Maintenance 

Our maintenance service periods range from one month to five years. Customers are typically invoiced and pay for maintenance services at the beginning of the maintenance period. We recognize revenue for maintenance services on a straight-line basis over the maintenance period in services revenue as our customers benefit evenly throughout the contract term and deferred revenues are recorded in current and non-current unearned revenue. 

Network Implementation 

We recognize revenue for network implementation, which primarily consists of engineering, execution and enablement services, at a point in time when each performance obligation is complete. If we have recognized revenue, but have not billed the customer, the right to consideration is recognized as a contract asset that is included in other receivables in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The contract asset is transferred to accounts receivable when the completed performance obligation is invoiced to the customer. 

As of September 30, 2018, we did not have any significant performance obligations related to customer contracts that had an original expected duration of one year or more, other than maintenance services, which are satisfied over time. 



The decrease in accounts receivable is due to the collection of customer specific payment terms that became due in the first quarter of 2018. The increase in the contract asset balance for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 is primarily attributable to revenue recognized that has not yet been billed to the customer during the period. The increase in the unearned revenue balance as of nine months ended September 30, 2018 is primarily attributable to cash payments received or due in advance of satisfying our performance obligations, offset by $8.9 million of revenues recognized that were included in the unearned revenue balance as of December 31, 2017.  







Our effective tax rate decreased from an expense of 23.1% in the nine months ended September 30, 2017, to a benefit of 34.9%, excluding the tax effect of the bargain purchase gain, in the nine months ended September 30, 2018. The decrease in the effective tax rate between the two periods is primarily driven by the completion of other tax projects, current year net losses in our domestic business and the effect of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which was signed into law on December 22, 2017.  

5. PENSION BENEFIT PLAN 

We maintain a defined benefit pension plan covering employees in certain foreign countries. 



The components of net periodic pension cost other than the service cost component are included in the line item “Other income (expense), net” in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 





Stock Options 



The aggregate intrinsic values in the table above represent the total pre-tax intrinsic value (the difference between the closing price of our stock on the last trading day of the quarter and the exercise price, multiplied by the number of in-the-money stock options) that would have been received by the option holders had all option holders exercised their options on September 30, 2018. The aggregate intrinsic value will change based on the fair market value of our stock. 

The total pre-tax intrinsic value of options exercised during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 was $0.1 million and $0.2 million, respectively.  

As of September 30, 2018, there was $1.2 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested stock options, which is expected to be recognized over an average remaining recognition period of 1.0 years. 

The fair value of our stock options is estimated using the Black-Scholes model. The determination of the fair value of stock options on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes model is affected by our stock price, as well as assumptions regarding a number of complex and subjective variables that may have a significant impact on the fair value estimate. 

There were no stock options granted during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 or 2017. 


 PSUs, RSUs and restricted stock 



The fair value of our PSUs with market conditions is calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation valuation method. The fair value of RSUs and restricted stock is equal to the closing price of our stock on the date of grant. During the first quarter of 2017, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors approved a PSU grant of 0.5 million shares that contain performance conditions. The fair value of these performance-based PSU awards was equal to the closing price of our stock on the date of grant.  

As of September 30, 2018, there was $9.8 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested market-based PSUs, RSUs and restricted stock, which is expected to be recognized over an average remaining recognition period of 2.6 years. In addition, there was $9.4 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested performance-based PSUs, which will be recognized over the requisite service period of three years as the achievement of the performance objective becomes probable. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, no compensation expense was recognized related to these performance-based PSU awards. 


Debt Securities and Other Investments 








Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities because some borrowers have the right to call or prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties. 



Our investment policy provides limitations for issuer concentration, which limits, at the time of purchase, the concentration in any one issuer to 5% of the market value of our total investment portfolio. 

At September 30, 2018, we held a $26.7 million restricted certificate of deposit that is carried at cost. This investment serves as a collateral deposit against the principal amount outstanding under loans made to ADTRAN pursuant to an Alabama State Industrial Development Authority revenue bond (the Bond), which totaled $26.7 million at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017. At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the estimated fair value of the Bond using a level 2 valuation technique was approximately $26.5 million and $26.7 million, respectively, based on a debt security with a comparable interest rate and maturity and a Standard and Poor’s credit rating of AAA. We have the right to set-off the balance of the Bond with the collateral deposit in order to reduce the balance of the indebtedness. The Bond matures on January 1, 2020, and bears interest at the rate of 2% per annum. In conjunction with this program, we are eligible to receive certain economic incentives from the state of Alabama that reduce the amount of payroll withholdings we are required to remit to the state for those employment positions that qualify under this program. We are required to make payments in the amounts necessary to pay the interest on the amounts currently outstanding. It is our intent to make annual principal payments in addition to the interest amounts that are due. 

Marketable Equity Securities 

Our marketable equity securities consist of publicly traded stocks or funds measured at fair value.  

Prior to January 1, 2018, our marketable equity securities were classified as available-for-sale. Realized gains and losses on marketable equity securities were included in net investment gain (loss). Unrealized gains and losses were recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of deferred taxes, on the balance sheet. 

On January 1, 2018, we adopted ASU 2016-01, which requires us to measure all equity investments that do not result in consolidation and are not accounted for under the equity method at fair value, with any changes in fair value recognized in net investment gain (loss). Upon adoption, we reclassified $3.2 million of net unrealized gains related to marketable equity securities from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to opening retained earnings. 




As of September 30, 2018 and 2017, gross unrealized losses related to individual investments in a continuous loss position for twelve months or longer were not significant. 





The fair value of our Level 2 securities is calculated using a weighted average market price for each security. Market prices are obtained from a variety of industry standard data providers, security master files from large financial institutions, and other third-party sources. These multiple market prices are used as inputs into a distribution-curve-based algorithm to determine the daily market value of each security. 

8. DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES 

We participate in foreign exchange forward contracts in connection with the management of exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. 

Cash Flow Hedges 

Our cash flow hedging activities utilize foreign exchange forward contracts to reduce the risk that movements in exchange rates will adversely affect the net cash flows resulting from the planned purchase of products from foreign suppliers. Purchases of U.S. denominated inventory by our European subsidiary represent our primary exposure. Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are not recognized in current operating results, but are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income. Amounts related to cash flow hedges are reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income when the underlying hedged item impacts earnings. This reclassification is recorded in cost of sales, the same line item of the Consolidated Statements of Income at which the effects of the hedged item are recorded. 

Undesignated Hedges 

We have certain customers and suppliers who are invoiced or pay in a non-functional currency. Changes in the monetary exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, as outstanding non-functional balances are revalued to the functional currency through profit and loss. When appropriate, we utilize foreign exchange forward contracts to help manage the volatility relating to these valuation exposures. All changes in the fair value of our derivative instruments that do not qualify for or are not designated for hedged accounting transactions are recognized as other income (expense), net in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 

We do not hold or issue derivative instruments for trading or other speculative purposes. Our derivative instruments are recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at their fair values. Our derivative instruments are not subject to master netting arrangements and are not offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 

As of September 30, 2018, we had no foreign exchange forward contracts. 










We establish reserves for estimated excess, obsolete, or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the cost of the inventory and the estimated fair value of the inventory based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, raw materials reserves totaled $17.2 million and $15.0 million, respectively, and finished goods inventory reserves totaled $10.6 million and $8.3 million, respectively. 


10. GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS 


We evaluate the carrying value of goodwill during the fourth quarter of each year and between annual evaluations if events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the reporting unit below its carrying amount. We have elected to first assess the qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit to which the goodwill is assigned is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the two-step impairment test. If we determine that it is more likely than not that its fair value is less than its carrying amount, then the two-step impairment test will be performed. Based on the results of our qualitative assessment in 2017, we concluded that it was not necessary to perform the two-step impairment test. There have been no impairment losses recognized since the acquisition in 2011. 

Intangible assets are included in other assets in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets and include intangibles acquired in conjunction with our acquisitions of Bluesocket, Inc. on August 4, 2011, the NSN BBA business on May 4, 2012, CommScope’s active fiber access business on September 13, 2016 and Sumitomo Electric Lightwave Corp.’s North American EPON business and technology license and OEM supply agreement with Sumitomo Electric Industries, Ltd. on March 19, 2018. 

The following table presents our intangible assets as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017. Fully amortized intangible assets have been removed from prior year balances for comparability. 


Amortization expense, all of which relates to business acquisitions, was $0.9 million and $0.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $2.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017. 







Stock Repurchase Program 

Since 1997, our Board of Directors has approved multiple share repurchase programs that have authorized open market repurchase transactions of up to 50.0 million shares of our common stock that are implemented through open market or private purchases from time to time as conditions warrant. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we repurchased 0.9 million shares of our common stock at an average price of $15.75 per share. As of September 30, 2018, we have the authority to purchase an additional 2.7 million shares of our common stock under the current plans approved by the Board of Directors. 

Stock Option Exercises 

We issued 0.1 million shares of treasury stock during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 to accommodate employee stock option exercises. The stock options had exercise prices ranging from $15.29 to $18.97. We received proceeds totaling $1.3 million from the exercise of these stock options during the nine months ended September 30, 2018. 

Dividend Payments 




Other Comprehensive Income 

Other comprehensive income consists of unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale debt securities; unrealized gains (losses) on cash flow hedges; reclassification adjustments for amounts included in net income related to impairments of available-for-sale debt securities, realized gains (losses) on available-for-sale debt securities, realized gains (losses) on cash flow hedges, and amortization of actuarial gains (losses) related to our defined benefit plan; defined benefit plan adjustments; and foreign currency translation adjustments. 








With the adoption of ASU 2016-01, the unrealized gains on our equity investments were reclassified to retained earnings. See Note 1 for more information. 






Included in the computation of net periodic pension cost. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 



Included in the computation of net periodic pension cost. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 





Included in the computation of net periodic pension cost. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 



Included in the computation of net periodic pension cost. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 







12. EARNINGS PER SHARE 



Anti-dilutive options to purchase common stock outstanding were excluded from the above calculations. Anti-dilutive options totaled 3.9 million and 3.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and 4.8 million and 3.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017. As a result of the net loss for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we excluded 0.1 million of unvested stock options, PSUs, RSUs and restricted stock from the calculation of diluted EPS due to their anti-dilutive effect. 



We evaluate the performance of our segments based on gross profit; therefore, selling, general and administrative expenses, research and development expenses, interest and dividend income, interest expense, net investment gain, other income (expense) and provision for taxes are reported on a company-wide, functional basis only. There are no inter-segment revenues. 

The following table presents information about the reported sales and gross profit of our reportable segments for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017. We do not produce asset information by reportable segment; therefore, it is not reported. 




Sales by Category 




14. LIABILITY FOR WARRANTY RETURNS 

Our products generally include warranties of 90 days to five years for product defects. We accrue for warranty returns at the time revenue is recognized based on our estimate of the cost to repair or replace the defective products. We engage in extensive product quality programs and processes, including actively monitoring and evaluating the quality of our component suppliers. Our products continue to become more complex in both size and functionality as many of our product offerings migrate from line card applications to total systems. The increasing complexity of our products will cause warranty incidences, when they arise, to be more costly. Our estimates regarding future warranty obligations may change due to product failure rates, material usage, and other rework costs incurred in correcting a product failure. In addition, from time to time, specific warranty accruals may be recorded if unforeseen problems arise. Should our actual experience relative to these factors be worse than our estimates, we will be required to record additional warranty expense. Alternatively, if we provide for more reserves than we require, we will reverse a portion of such provisions in future periods. The liability for warranty obligations totaled $9.0 million and $9.7 million at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017. During the three months ended March 31, 2017, we recorded a receivable and a reduction in warranty expense related to a settlement with a third party supplier for a defective component, the impact of which is reflected in the table below. During the three months ended September 30, 2018, we had a reversal of prior provisions, the impact of which is reflected in the table below. These liabilities are included in accrued expenses in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. 



15. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES 

In the ordinary course of business, we may be subject to various legal proceedings and claims, including employment disputes, patent claims, disputes over contract agreements and other commercial disputes. In some cases, claimants seek damages or other relief, such as royalty payments related to patents, which, if granted, could require significant expenditures. Although the outcome of any claim or litigation can never be certain, it is our opinion that the outcome of all contingencies of which we are currently aware will not materially affect our business, operations, financial condition or cash flows. 

We have committed to invest up to an aggregate of $7.9 million in two private equity funds, and we have contributed $8.4 million as of September 30, 2018, of which $7.7 million has been applied to these commitments. 



On October 16, 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per common share to be paid to stockholders of record at the close of business on October 31, 2018. The payment date will be November 14, 2018. The quarterly dividend payment will be approximately $4.3 million. In July 2003, our Board of Directors elected to begin declaring quarterly dividends on our common stock considering the tax treatment of dividends and adequate levels of Company liquidity. 

During the 4th quarter and as of November 6, 2018, we have repurchased 0.1 million shares of our common stock through open market purchases at an average cost of $13.60 per share. We currently have the authority to purchase an additional 2.6 million shares of our common stock under the current plan approved by the Board of Directors. 


ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this document. 

OVERVIEW 

ADTRAN, Inc. is a leading global provider of networking and communications equipment. Our solutions enable voice, data, video and Internet communications across a variety of network infrastructures. These solutions are deployed by many of the United States’ and the world’s largest communications service providers (CSPs), distributed enterprises and small and medium-sized businesses, public and private enterprises, and millions of individual users worldwide. 


Our business is global. We supply different sets of products to different customers in different regions around the world. Our financial results in any period reflect the activities of our various customers in their respective regions at any given time. In order to service our customers and build revenue, we are constantly conducting research and development of new products addressing customer needs and testing those products for the particular specifications of the particular customers. The lead times to revenues for these products vary.  

As previously reported, we experienced a significant negative impact on our North American revenue as a result of a decision in mid-fourth quarter 2017 by a major customer to suspend a product rollout following a merger. While we continue to sell to that customer, the project in question has not yet resumed and we are unsure when, if ever, it will. During the periods covered in this report, our North American revenue was also impacted by slower-than-expected orders of an ultra-broadband product by a large domestic customer. 

During the same period, however, we have seen a modest expansion of our revenues from much of the customer base and have brought to fruition our participation in a number of large customer projects which in some cases have begun to produce some revenue and in all cases we anticipate represent significant revenue opportunities in the future. These include next generation PON projects with large carriers, both domestically and internationally, the beginnings of deployment for a large project in the APAC region, a significant network upgrade by a Tier 1 European customer, as well as continued expansion and opportunities for our EPON products to two of the top North American cable MSO operators. 

While our Services business did not increase at the rate that it did in 2016 and 2017, and has decreased from the record levels we achieved in 2017 due to the above-mentioned merger-related disruption, we continue to develop our Services business around the world, and we anticipate that it will continue to expand and remain an increasingly important part of our revenue streams across the world. Margins on services revenue vary depending upon the types of services performed. 



Customer Devices includes our products and services that provide end users access to CSP networks. Our Customer Devices portfolio includes a comprehensive array of service provider and enterprise hardware and software products and services. 



See Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this report for further information regarding these product categories. 

Sales were $140.3 million and $389.2 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to $185.1 million and $540.1 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017. Our gross margin decreased to 41.6% and 38.1% in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, from 46.7% and 45.3% in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017. Our operating income margin decreased to (1.6)% and (10.7)% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, from 9.8% and 7.7% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017. Net income (loss) was $7.6 million and $(10.9) million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to $15.9 million and $35.0 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017. Our effective tax rate, excluding the effect of the bargain purchase gain in 2018, was a benefit of 135.7% and 52.2% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to a provision of 17.2% and 23.1% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017. Earnings (loss) per share, assuming dilution, was $0.16 and $(0.23) for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to $0.33 and $0.72 for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017. 

Our operating results have fluctuated on a quarterly basis in the past, and may vary significantly in future periods due to a number of factors, including customer order activity and backlog. Backlog levels vary because of seasonal trends, the timing of customer projects and other factors that affect customer order lead times. Many of our customers require prompt delivery of products. This requires us to maintain sufficient inventory levels to satisfy anticipated customer demand. If near-term demand for our products declines, or if potential sales in any quarter do not occur as anticipated, our financial results could be adversely affected. Operating expenses are relatively fixed in the short term; therefore, a shortfall in quarterly revenues could significantly impact our financial results in a given quarter. 

Our operating results may also fluctuate as a result of a number of other factors, including a decline in general economic and market conditions, foreign currency exchange rate movements, increased competition, customer order patterns, changes in product and services mix, timing differences between price decreases and product cost reductions, product warranty returns, expediting costs and announcements of new products by us or our competitors. Additionally, maintaining sufficient inventory levels to assure prompt delivery of our products increases the amount of inventory that may become obsolete and increases the risk that the obsolescence of this inventory may have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. Also, not maintaining sufficient inventory levels to assure prompt delivery of our products may cause us to incur expediting costs to meet customer delivery requirements, which may negatively impact our operating results in a given quarter. 

Accordingly, our historical financial performance is not necessarily a meaningful indicator of future results, and in general, management expects that our financial results may vary from period to period. Factors that could materially affect our business, financial condition or operating results are included in Item 1A of Part I in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed on February 23, 2018 with the SEC and in Part II Item 1A herein. 

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES 

Our critical accounting policies and estimates have not changed significantly from those detailed in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed on February 23, 2018 with the SEC. 

EFFECT OF RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS 

See Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of this Form 10-Q for a full description of recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects on results of operations and financial condition, which is incorporated herein by reference. 


RESULTS OF OPERATIONS – THREE AND NINE MONTHS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2018 COMPARED TO THREE AND NINE MONTHS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2017 

SALES 







We recognized a positive revenue impact in the first half of 2017 due to our being awarded a network expansion program by a large European Tier-1 customer. During 2018, this European Tier 1 customer undertook an additional network expansion project. We anticipate that as our Latin American customers resume their network upgrade projects, we may experience further enhancement to our revenues. As announced, we received of a new nationwide award in the APAC region, as well as additional awards based on new ADTRAN technologies in the EMEA region that have, and we believe will continue to have, a positive impact to our revenues. However, a resolution of the regulatory changes affecting a major customer in Mexico has been slower than anticipated, and business with one of our customers in that region has not yet returned to normal levels. We are continuing to pursue opportunities with new customers in this region. 

COST OF SALES 

As a percentage of sales, cost of sales increased from 53.3% in the three months ended September 30, 2017 to 58.4% in the three months ended September 30, 2018, and increased from 54.7% in the nine months ended September 30, 2017 to 61.9% in the nine months ended September 30, 2018. The increase in cost of sales as a percentage of sales for the three months ended September 30, 2018 is primarily attributable to a regional revenue shift, customer and product mix, and services and support mix. The increase in cost of sales as a percentage of sales for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 is primarily attributable to a regional revenue shift, customer and product mix, and services and support mix, restructuring expenses and an increase in warranty replacements.  

Network Solutions cost of sales, as a percent of that segment’s sales, increased from 50.6% in the three months ended September 30, 2017 to 57.8% in the three months ended September 30, 2018, and increased from 51.7% in the nine months ended September 30, 2017 to 61.0% in the nine months ended September 30, 2018. The increase in cost of sales as a percentage of sales for the three months ended September 30, 2018 is primarily attributable to a regional revenue shift and customer and product mix. The increase in cost of sales as a percentage of sales for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 is primarily attributable to a regional revenue shift, customer and product mix, an increase in warranty expense due to a settlement in first quarter of 2017 with a third party supplier for a defective component and purchase discounts received from a contract manufacturer in the first quarter of 2017 and restructuring expenses. 

An important part of our strategy is to reduce the product cost of each succeeding product generation and then to lower the product’s price based on the cost savings achieved. This may cause variations in our gross profit percentage due to timing differences between the recognition of cost reductions and the lowering of product selling prices. 





SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES 

Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 11.3% from $34.7 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 to $30.8 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018, and decreased 7.5% from $104.2 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2017 to $96.4 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2018. The decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2018 is primarily attributable to decreases in compensation and labor expense, travel expense and independent contractor expense, partially offset by an increase in restructuring expense. The decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 is primarily attributable to a decrease in compensation and labor expense, independent contractor expense, and travel expense, partially offset by an increase in restructuring expense. 

As a percentage of sales, selling, general and administrative expenses increased from 18.7% in the three months ended September 30, 2017 to 21.9% in the three months ended September 30, 2018, and increased from 19.3% in the nine months ended September 30, 2017 to 24.8% in the nine months ended September 30, 2018. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales may fluctuate whenever there is a significant fluctuation in revenues for the periods being compared. 

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENSES 

Research and development expenses decreased 11.0% from $33.6 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 to $29.9 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018, and decreased 5.7% from $99.1 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2017 to $93.5 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2018. The decrease in research and development expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2018 is primarily attributable to decreases in labor, engineering materials and independent contractor expense. The decrease in research and development expenses for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 is primarily attributable to decreases in engineering materials and independent contractor expense and amortization of intangibles acquired in the third quarter of 2016 that were fully amortized in 2017, partially offset by an increase in restructuring expense. 

As a percentage of sales, research and development expenses increased from 18.1% in the three months ended September 30, 2017 to 21.3% in the three months ended September 30, 2018, and increased from 18.4% in the nine months ended September 30, 2017 to 24.0% in the nine months ended September 30, 2018. Research and development expenses as a percentage of sales will fluctuate whenever there are incremental product development activities or significant fluctuations in revenues for the periods being compared. 

We expect to continue to incur research and development expenses in connection with our new and existing products and our expansion into international markets. We continually evaluate new product opportunities and engage in intensive research and product development efforts, which provides for new product development, enhancement of existing products and product cost reductions. We may incur significant research and development expenses prior to the receipt of revenues from a major new product group. 

INTEREST AND DIVIDEND INCOME 

Interest and dividend income decreased 13.3% from $1.0 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 to $0.8 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018, and decreased 8.9% from $2.9 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2017 to $2.6 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2018. The decrease in interest and dividend income for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 is primarily attributable to fluctuations in investment balances and a decrease in the rate of return on those investments due to interest rate movements. 

INTEREST EXPENSE 

Interest expense, which is primarily related to our taxable revenue bond, remained constant at $0.1 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 and 2018, and $0.4 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2017 and 2018, as we had no substantial change in our fixed-rate borrowing. See “Liquidity and Capital Resources” below for additional information on our revenue bond. 

NET INVESTMENT GAIN 

Net investment gains increased 346.7% from $1.0 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 to $4.5 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018, and increased 88.2% from $2.9 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2017 to $5.4 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2018. The increase in net investment gains for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 is primarily attributable to changes in fair value on equity securities recognized during the period under ASC 2016-01. Prior to January 1, 2018, changes in fair value were recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of deferred taxes, on the balance sheet. See Note 1, Note 7 and “Investing Activities” in “Liquidity and Capital Resources” for additional information. 


OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE), NET 

Other income (expense), net, comprised primarily of miscellaneous income, gains and losses on foreign currency transactions, gains and losses on foreign exchange forward contracts, investment account management fees, and scrap raw material sales. Other income, net increased 123.9% from $0.8 million of expense in the three months ended September 30, 2017 to $0.2 million of income in the three months ended September 30, 2018. Other income (expense), net decreased 94.9% from $1.4 million of expense in the nine months ended September 30, 2017 to $0.1 million of expense in the nine months ended September 30, 2018. The change in other income (expense), net for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 is primarily attributable to higher losses on foreign exchange contracts and transactions in 2017. 

GAIN ON BARGAIN PURCHASE OF A BUSINESS 

Gain on bargain purchase of a business is related to our acquisition of Sumitomo Electric Lightwave Corp.’s North American EPON business and entry into a technology license and supply agreement with Sumitomo Electric Industries, Ltd. on March 19, 2018. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

INCOME TAXES 

Our effective tax rate decreased from an expense of 23.1% in the nine months ended September 30, 2017 to a benefit of 34.9%, excluding the tax effect of the bargain purchase gain, in the nine months ended September 30, 2018. The decrease in the effective tax rate between the two periods is primarily driven by the completion of other tax projects, current year net losses in our domestic business and the effect of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which was signed into law on December 22, 2017. 

NET INCOME (LOSS) 

As a result of the above factors, net income (loss) decreased $8.3 million from $15.9 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 to $7.6 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018, and decreased $45.8 million from $35.0 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2017 to $(10.9) million in the nine months ended September 30, 2018.  

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 

Liquidity 

We intend to finance our operations with cash flow from operations. We have used, and expect to continue to use, the cash generated from operations for working capital, purchases of treasury stock, shareholder dividends, and other general corporate purposes, including (i) product development activities to enhance our existing products and develop new products and (ii) expansion of sales and marketing activities. We believe our cash and cash equivalents, investments and cash generated from operations to be adequate to meet our operating and capital needs for at least the next 12 months. 

At September 30, 2018, cash on hand was $94.2 million and short-term investments were $5.9 million, which resulted in available short-term liquidity of $100.1 million, of which $70.1 million was held by our foreign subsidiaries. At December 31, 2017, cash on hand was $86.4 million and short-term investments were $16.1 million, which resulted in available short-term liquidity of $102.6 million, of which $56.8 million was held by our foreign subsidiaries. We intend to permanently reinvest the funds held by our foreign subsidiaries outside the U.S. and our current business plans do not indicate a need to repatriate these funds to finance domestic operations. The decrease in short-term liquidity from December 31, 2017 to September 30, 2018 is primarily attributable to shifts among available investment option tenures to provide funds for our short-term cash needs. 

Operating Activities 

Our working capital, which consists of current assets less current liabilities, decreased 26.5% from $306.3 million as of December 31, 2017 to $225.0 million as of September 30, 2018, and our current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, decreased from 3.87 as of December 31, 2017 to 2.82 as of September 30, 2018. The decreases in our working capital and current ratio are primarily attributable to decreases in accounts receivable and inventory, and an increase in income tax payable. The quick ratio, defined as cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, and net accounts receivable, divided by current liabilities, decreased from 2.31 as of December 31, 2017 to 1.63 as of September 30, 2018. The decrease in the quick ratio is primarily attributable to a decrease in accounts receivable and an increase in income tax payable.  

Accounts receivable decreased 29.3% from $144.2 million at December 31, 2017 to $101.9 million at September 30, 2018. We had no allowance for doubtful accounts at December 31, 2017 or September 30, 2018. Quarterly accounts receivable days sales outstanding (DSO) decreased from 105 days as of December 31, 2017 to 67 days as of September 30, 2018. The decrease in net accounts receivable is due to the collection of customer-specific payment terms that became due in the first quarter of 2018 and the timing of sales and collections during the quarter. Additionally, certain international customers may have longer payment terms than U.S. customers.  


Quarterly inventory turnover increased from 2.28 turns as of December 31, 2017 to 2.89 turns at September 30, 2018. Inventory decreased 13.5% from $122.5 million at December 31, 2017 to $106.1 million at September 30, 2018. We expect inventory levels to fluctuate as we attempt to maintain sufficient inventory in response to services activity and seasonal cycles of our business, ensuring competitive lead times while managing the risk of inventory obsolescence that may occur due to rapidly changing technology and customer demand. 

Prepaid expense and other current assets decreased 39.7% from $17.3 million at December 31, 2017 to $10.4 million at September 30, 2018. The decrease in prepaid expenses and other current assets is primarily attributable to the recognition of deferred costs related to network installation services that were completed during the first quarter.  

Income tax payable increased 264.3% from $3.9 million at December 31, 2017 to $14.3 million at September 30, 2018. The increase in income tax payable is primarily attributable to income taxes accrued for foreign jurisdictions. 

Investing Activities 

Capital expenditures totaled approximately $5.7 million and $12.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. These expenditures were primarily used to purchase computer hardware, software, manufacturing and test equipment, and building improvements. 

Our combined short-term and long-term investments increased $3.8 million from $146.4 million at December 31, 2017 to $150.2 million at September 30, 2018. This increase reflects funds available for investment provided by our operating activities, as well as net realized and unrealized gains and losses and amortization of net premiums on our combined investments, partially offset by our cash needs for capital expenditures, purchases of treasury stock, and shareholder dividends. 


Our long-term investments increased 10.7% from $130.3 million at December 31, 2017 to $144.2 million at September 30, 2018. Long-term investments at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 included an investment in a certificate of deposit of $26.7 million and $27.8 million, respectively, which serves as collateral for our revenue bond. See “Debt” below for additional information. We have various equity investments included in long-term investments with a fair value of $40.9 million and $35.7 million, at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. 

Long-term investments at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 also included $20.9 million and $19.9 million, respectively, related to our deferred compensation plans, and $0.5 million of other investments carried at cost, consisting of interests in two private equity funds. 


Financing Activities 

Dividends 

In July 2003, our Board of Directors elected to begin declaring quarterly dividends on our common stock considering the tax treatment of dividends and adequate levels of Company liquidity. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we paid dividends totaling $13.0 million. 

Debt 


Stock Repurchase Program 

Since 1997, our Board of Directors has approved multiple share repurchase programs that have authorized open market repurchase transactions of up to 50.0 million shares of our common stock that are implemented through open market or private purchases from time to time as conditions warrant. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we repurchased 0.9 million shares of our common stock at an average price of $15.75 per share. As of September 30, 2018, we have the authority to purchase an additional 2.7 million shares of our common stock under the current plans approved by the Board of Directors. 

Stock Option Exercises 

We issued 0.1 million shares of treasury stock during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 to accommodate employee stock option exercises. The stock options had exercise prices ranging from $15.29 to $18.97. We received proceeds totaling $1.3 million from the exercise of these stock options during the nine months ended September 30, 2018. 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations 

We do not have off-balance sheet financing arrangements and have not engaged in any related party transactions or arrangements with unconsolidated entities or other persons that are reasonably likely to materially affect liquidity or the availability of or requirements for capital resources. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, there have been no material changes in contractual obligations and commercial commitments from those discussed in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 filed on February 23, 2018 with the SEC. 

We have committed to invest up to an aggregate of $7.9 million in two private equity funds, and we have contributed $8.4 million as of September 30, 2018, of which $7.7 million has been applied to these commitments.  


ITEM 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 


We maintain depository investments with certain financial institutions. Although these depository investments may exceed government insured depository limits, we have evaluated the credit-worthiness of these financial institutions, and determined the risk of material financial loss due to exposure of such credit risk to be minimal. As of September 30, 2018, $91.3 million of our cash and cash equivalents, primarily certain domestic money market funds and foreign depository accounts, were in excess of government provided insured depository limits. 

As of September 30, 2018, approximately $63.0 million of our cash and investments may be directly affected by changes in interest rates. We have performed a hypothetical sensitivity analysis assuming market interest rates increase or decrease by 50 basis points (bps) for an entire year, while all other variables remain constant. At September 30, 2018, we held $6.6 million of cash and variable-rate investments where a change in interest rates would impact our interest income. A hypothetical 50 bps decline in interest rates as of September 30, 2018 would reduce annualized interest income on our cash and investments by approximately $0.1 million. In addition, we held $56.3 million of fixed-rate bonds whose fair values may be directly affected by a change in interest rates. A hypothetical 50 bps increase in interest rates as of September 30, 2018 would reduce the fair value of our fixed-rate bonds by approximately $0.5 million. 

As of September 30, 2017, approximately $108.1 million of our cash and investments was subject to being directly affected by changes in interest rates. We have performed a hypothetical sensitivity analysis assuming market interest rates increase or decrease by 50 bps for the entire year, while all other variables remain constant. At September 30, 2017, we held $39.4 million of cash and variable rate investments where a change in interest rates would impact our interest income. A hypothetical 50 bps decline in interest rates as of September 30, 2017 would have reduced annualized interest income on our cash, money market instruments and variable rate demand notes by approximately $0.2 million. In addition, we held $68.7 million of fixed-rate bonds whose fair values may be directly affected by a change in interest rates. A hypothetical 50 bps increase in interest rates as of September 30, 2017 would have reduced the fair value of our fixed-rate bonds by approximately $0.3 million. 

We are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates to the extent that such changes affect our revenue and gross margin on revenue derived from some international customers, expenses, and assets and liabilities held in non-functional currencies related to our foreign subsidiaries. Our primary exposures to foreign currency exchange rates are with our German subsidiary, whose functional currency is the Euro, our Australian subsidiary, whose functional currency is the Australian dollar, and our Mexican subsidiary, whose functional currency is the U.S. dollar. We are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates to the extent of our German subsidiary’s use of contract manufacturers and raw material suppliers whom we predominately pay in U.S. dollars. We may establish cash flow hedges utilizing foreign exchange forward contracts to reduce the risk that movements in exchange rates will adversely affect the net cash flows resulting from the planned purchase of products from foreign suppliers. As a result, changes in currency exchange rates could cause variations in gross margin in the products that we sell in the EMEA region. 

We have certain customers and suppliers who are invoiced or pay in a non-functional currency. Changes in the monetary exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, as outstanding non-functional balances are revalued to the functional currency through profit and loss. When appropriate, we utilize foreign exchange forward contracts to help manage the volatility relating to these valuation exposures. All changes in the fair value of our derivative instruments that do not qualify for or are not designated for hedged accounting transactions are recognized as other income (expense), net in the Consolidated Statements of Income. We do not hold or issue derivative instruments for trading or other speculative purposes. All non-functional currencies billed would result in a combined hypothetical gain or loss of $0.2 million if the U.S. dollar weakened or strengthened 10% against the billing currencies. Any gain or loss would be partially mitigated by these derivative instruments. 

As of September 30, 2018, we had no material contracts, other than accounts receivable and accounts payable, denominated in foreign currencies. As of September 30, 2018, we did not have any forward contracts outstanding. 

For further information about the fair value of our investments and our derivative and hedging activities as of September 30, 2018, see Notes 7 and 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 


ITEM 4. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 




PART II. OTHER INFORMATION 

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 


Increased tariffs caused by changes in trade policies of the United States or other countries in which we do business, which could trigger retaliatory actions by affected countries resulting in “trade wars”, may increase costs for material imported into the United States and other countries. This in turn may increase our cost of goods and result in reduced profit margins or customer demand for some of our products or in trading partners limiting their trade with the United States.  

ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS 



On July 14, 2015, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of an additional 5.0 million shares of our common stock (bringing the total shares authorized for repurchase to 50.0 million). This authorization will be implemented through open market or private purchases from time to time as conditions warrant. 


ITEM 6. EXHIBITS 

Exhibits. 



SIGNATURE 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 


