Document  
UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION







For the quarterly period ended October 31, 2019 

OR





AMERICAN SOFTWARE, INC.











Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, an emerging growth company or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “emerging growth company” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.




Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the issuer’s classes of common stock, as of the latest practicable date.

AMERICAN SOFTWARE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES


Quarter ended October 31, 2019 

Index


PART I—FINANCIAL INFORMATION

Item 1. Financial Statements

American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (Unaudited)



American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations (Unaudited)




See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—unaudited.

American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity (Unaudited)




See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—unaudited.

American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity (Unaudited)




See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—unaudited.

American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited)



See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—unaudited.

AMERICAN SOFTWARE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements—Unaudited


A. Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Basis of Presentation

The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") for interim financial information and the instructions to Form 10-Q and Rule 10-01 of Regulation S-X. Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required for complete consolidated financial statements. In the opinion of our management, these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contain all normal recurring adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s financial position at October 31, 2019, results of operations for the three and six months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018, consolidated statements of shareholders’ equity for the three and six months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018 and cash flows for the six months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018. The Company’s results for the three and six months ended October 31, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for the full year. You should read these statements in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and management’s discussion and analysis and results of operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K (the “Annual Report”) for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2019. The terms “fiscal 2020” and “fiscal 2019” refer to our fiscal years ending April 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively.


Principles of Consolidation

The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of American Software, Inc. (“American Software”) and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively, the “Company”). All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

Adoption of New Accounting Standard

In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2016-02, Leases, which established new FASB Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 842 ("ASC 842"), to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by recognizing lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements. Under the new guidance, a lessee is required to recognize assets and liabilities for leases with lease terms of more than 12 months.

Consistent under previous guidance, the recognition, measurement, and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee primarily will depend on its classification as a finance or operating lease. However, unlike previous guidance, which required only capital leases to be recognized on the balance sheet, the new standard requires both types of leases to be recognized on the balance sheet. ASC 842 also requires disclosures to help investors and other financial statement users better understand the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. These disclosures include qualitative and quantitative requirements, providing additional information about the amounts recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.

The new lease standard is effective for public companies for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company adopted ASC 842 on May 1, 2019, using the modified retrospective method and utilized the optional transition method under which the Company continues to apply the legacy guidance in ASC 840, Leases, including its disclosure requirements, in the comparative period presented. Therefore, the adjustment to recognize the Company’s 

leases on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet related to the adoption of the new standard was recorded as of the adoption date and prior periods were not restated.


Adoption of the new standard resulted in the recognition of operating lease ROU assets of approximately $2.7 million, current operating lease liabilities of approximately $0.7 million and long-term operating lease liabilities of approximately $2.1 million as of May 1, 2019.

The adoption had no impact on retained deficit, the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations, or the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. See Note C for further discussion of the Company’s leases.

B. Revenue Recognition

We recognize revenue when we transfer control of the promised goods or services to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those goods or services. We derive our revenue from software licenses; maintenance services; consulting, implementation and training services; and Software-as-a-Service (“SaaS”), which includes a subscription to our software as well as maintenance, hosting and managed services.


Step 1 – Identification of the Contract with the Customer

Step 2 – Identification of Promised Goods and Services and Evaluation of Whether the Promised Goods and Services are Distinct Performance Obligations

Step 3 – Determination of the Transaction Price

Step 4 – Allocation of the Transaction Price to Distinct Performance Obligations

Step 5 – Attribution of Revenue for Each Distinct Performance Obligation

Nature of Products and Services.

Licenses. Our perpetual software licenses provide the customer with a right to use the software as it exists at the time of purchase. We recognize revenue for distinct software licenses once the license period has begun and we have made the software available to the customer.

Our perpetual software licenses are sold with maintenance under which we provide customers with telephone consulting, product updates on a when and if available basis, and releases of new versions of products previously purchased by the customer, as well as error reporting and correction services.

Subscription Fees. Subscription fees include SaaS revenues for the right to use the software for a limited period of time in an environment hosted by the Company or by a third party. The customer accesses and uses the software on an as-needed basis over the Internet or via a dedicated line; however, the customer has no right to take delivery of the software without incurring a significant penalty. The underlying arrangements typically include a single fee for the service that is billed monthly, quarterly or annually. The Company’s SaaS solutions represent a series of distinct services that are substantially the same and have the same pattern of transfer to the customer. Revenue from a SaaS solution is generally recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement.

Professional Services and Other. Our services revenue consists of fees generated from consulting, implementation and training services, including reimbursements of out-pocket expenses in connection with our services. Services are typically optional to our customers, and are distinct from our software. Fees for our services are separately priced and are generally billed on an hourly basis, and revenue is recognized over time as the services are performed. We believe the output method of hours worked provides the best depiction of the transfer of our services since the customer is receiving the benefit from our services as the work is performed. The total amount of expense reimbursement included in professional services and other revenue was approximately $0.5 million 

and $0.9 million for the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, respectively and approximately $0.4 million and $0.7 million for the three and six months ended October 31, 2018, respectively. 

Maintenance. Revenue is derived from maintenance under which we provide customers with telephone consulting, product updates on a when and if available basis, and releases of new versions of products previously purchased by the customer, as well as error reporting and correction services. Maintenance for perpetual licenses is renewable, generally on an annual basis, at the option of the customer. Maintenance terms typically range from one to three years. Revenue related to maintenance is generally paid in advance and recognized ratably over the term of the agreement since the Company is standing ready to provide a series of maintenance services that are substantially the same each period over the term; therefore, time is the best measure of progress.

Indirect Channel Revenue. We record revenues from sales made through the indirect sales channels on a gross basis, because we control the goods or services and act as the principal in the transaction. In reaching this determination, we evaluated sales through our indirect channel on a case-by-case basis and considered a number of factors including indicators of control such as the party having the primary responsibility to provide specified goods or services and the party having discretion in establishing prices.

Sales Taxes. We account for sales taxes collected from customers on a net basis.

Significant Judgments. Our contracts with customers typically contain promises to transfer multiple products and services to a customer. Judgment is required to determine whether each product and service is considered to be a distinct performance obligation that should be accounted for separately under the contract. We allocate the transaction price to distinct performance obligations based on their relative standalone selling price (“SSP”). We estimate SSP primarily based on the prices charged to customers for products or services sold on a standalone basis, or by using information such as market conditions and other observable inputs. However, the selling prices of our software licenses are highly variable or uncertain. Therefore, we estimate SSP for software licenses using the residual approach, determined based on total transaction price less the SSP of other products and services promised in the contract. When performing relative selling price allocations, we use the contract price as the estimate of SSP if it falls within the Company’s range estimate of SSP, since any point within the range would be a valid price point on a standalone basis. If the contract price falls outside of the range of SSP, the Company will use the nearest point in the SSP range in its relative selling price allocation.

Contract Balances. Timing of invoicing to customers may differ from timing of revenue recognition and these timing differences result in receivables, contract assets (unbilled accounts receivable), or contract liabilities (deferred revenue) on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. Fees for our software licenses are generally due within 30 days of contract execution. We have an established history of collecting under the terms of our software license contracts without providing refunds or concessions to our customers. SaaS solutions and maintenance are typically billed in advance on a monthly, quarterly, or annual basis. Services are typically billed as performed. In instances where the timing of revenue recognition differs from the timing of invoicing, we have determined that our contracts generally do not include a significant financing component. The primary purpose of our invoicing terms is to provide customers with predictable ways to purchase our software and services, not to provide or receive financing. Additionally, we are applying the practical expedient to exclude any financing component from consideration for any contracts with payment terms of one year or less since we rarely offer terms extending beyond one year. The consideration in our customer contracts is fixed.

We have an unconditional right to consideration for all goods and services transferred to our customers. That unconditional right to consideration is reflected in billed and unbilled accounts receivable in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets in accordance with ASC Topic 606.

Deferred revenue consists of amounts collected prior to having completed the performance of maintenance, SaaS, hosting, and managed services. We typically invoice customers for cloud subscription and support fees in advance on a monthly, quarterly or annual basis, with payment due at the start of the cloud subscription or support term. During the three months ended October 31, 2019, we recognized $14 million of revenue that was included in the deferred revenue balance as of July 31, 2019. During the six months ended October 31, 2019, we recognized $23 million of revenue that was included in the deferred revenue balance as of April 30, 2019. 


Remaining Performance Obligations. A performance obligation is a promise in a contract to transfer a distinct good or service to the customer and is the unit of account under Topic 606. The transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation and recognized as revenue when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied by transferring the promised good or service to the customer. The Company identifies and tracks the performance obligations at contract inception so that the Company can monitor and account for the performance obligations over the life of the contract. Remaining performance obligations represent the transaction price of orders for which products have not been delivered or services have not been performed. As of October 31, 2019, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations was approximately $76 million. The Company expects to recognize revenue on approximately two-thirds of the remaining performance obligations over the next 12 months, with the remainder recognized thereafter.

Disaggregated Revenue. The Company disaggregates revenue from contracts with customers by geography, as it believes it best depicts how the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows are affected by economic factors.




a.The costs relate directly to a contract or to an anticipated contract that the Company can specifically identify.

b.The costs generate or enhance resources of the Company that will be used in satisfying (or in continuing to satisfy) performance obligations in the future.

c.The costs are expected to be recovered.

Certain sales commissions incurred by the Company were determined to be incremental costs to obtain the related contracts, which are deferred and amortized ratably over the economic benefit period. These deferred commission costs are classified as current or non-current based on the timing of when the Company expects to recognize the expense. The current and non-current portions of deferred commissions are included in prepaid expenses and deferred sales commissions—noncurrent, respectively, in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. Total deferred commissions at October 31, 2019 and April 30, 2019 were $2.9 million and $2.3 million, respectively. Amortization of sales commissions was $0.4 million and $0.7 million for the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, respectively, which is included in sales and marketing expense in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. No impairment losses were recognized during the periods.

 C. Leases

The Company’s operating leases are primarily related to facility leases for administration and sales. The operating leases have terms ranging from three to five years. While each of the leases includes renewal options, the Company has only included the base lease term in its calculation of lease assets and liabilities. The Company does not have any finance leases.






Lease costs are primarily included in "Selling and marketing" and "General and administrative" expenses in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.

The impact of the Company's leases on Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows is presented in the operating activities section, which mainly consisted of cash paid for operating lease liabilities of approximately $0.5 million and the amortization of the right of use assets and operating lease obligations of $10,000 during the six months ended October 31, 2019. The Company did not modify any existing leases or execute any new leases during the three and six months ended October 31, 2019.











D. Declaration of Dividend Payable

On August 21, 2019, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.11 per share of our Class A and Class B common stock. The cash dividend was payable on December 6, 2019 to Class A and Class B shareholders of record at the close of business on November 22, 2019.

E. Earnings Per Common Share

The Company has two classes of common stock. Class B common shares are convertible into Class A common shares at anytime, on a one-for-one basis. Under the Company’s Articles of Incorporation, if dividends are declared, holders of Class A common shares shall receive a $0.05 dividend per share prior to the Class B common shares receiving any dividend and holders of Class A common shares shall receive a dividend at least equal to Class B common shares dividends on a per share basis. As a result, the Company has computed the earnings per share in compliance with the Earnings Per Share Topic of the FASB ASC, which requires companies that have multiple classes of equity securities to use the “two-class” method in computing earnings per share.

For the Company’s basic earnings per share calculation, the Company uses the “two-class” method. Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing net earnings attributable to each class of common stock by the weighted average number of shares outstanding. All undistributed earnings are allocated evenly between Class A and B common shares in the earnings per share calculation to the extent that earnings equal or exceed $0.05 per share. This allocation is based on management’s judgment after considering the dividend rights of the two-classes of common stock, the control of the Class B shareholders and the convertibility rights of the Class B shares to Class A shares. If Class B shares convert to Class A shares during the period, the distributed net earnings for Class B shares is calculated using the weighted average common shares outstanding during the period.

Diluted earnings per share is calculated similarly to basic earnings per share, except that the calculation includes the dilutive effect of the assumed exercise of options issuable under the Company’s stock incentive plans. For the Company’s diluted earnings per share calculation for Class A shares, the Company uses the “if-converted” method. This calculation assumes that all Class B common shares are converted into Class A common shares and, as a result, assumes there are no holders of Class B common shares to participate in undistributed earnings.

For the Company’s diluted earnings per share calculation for Class B shares, the Company uses the “two-class” method. This calculation does not assume that all Class B common shares are converted into Class A common shares. In addition, this method assumes the dilutive effect of Class A stock options were converted to Class A shares and the undistributed earnings are allocated evenly to both Class A and B shares including Class A shares issued pursuant to those converted stock options. This allocation is based on management’s judgment after considering the dividend rights of the two-classes of common stock, the control of the Class B shareholders and the convertibility rights of the Class B shares into Class A shares.





Diluted EPS for Class A Common Shares Using the If-Converted Method

Three Months Ended October 31, 2019


Six Months Ended October 31, 2019 


Three Months Ended October 31, 2018 


Six Months Ended October 31, 2018 


Diluted EPS for Class B Common Shares Using the Two-Class Method

Three Months Ended October 31, 2019


Six Months Ended October 31, 2019 


Three Months Ended October 31, 2018


Six Months Ended October 31, 2018 



For the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, we excluded options to purchase 12,174 and 330,620 Class A Common Shares, respectively, and for the three and six months ended October 31, 2018, we excluded options to purchase 12,000 and 6,065 Class A Common Shares, respectively, from the computation of diluted earnings per Class A Common Shares. We excluded these option share amounts because the exercise prices of those options were greater than the average market price of the Class A Common Shares during the applicable period. As of October 31, 2019, we had a total of 4,333,117 options outstanding and as of October 31, 2018, we had a total of 4,119,923 options outstanding.

F. Stock-Based Compensation

During the six months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018, we granted options for 1,063,000 and 1,189,000 shares of Class A common stock, respectively. The fair value of each option award is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The forfeiture rates are estimated using historical data. We recorded stock option compensation cost of approximately$0.5 million and $0.4 million and income tax benefits of approximately $411,742 and $12,000 from option exercises during the three months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. We recorded stock option compensation cost of approximately $0.9 million and $0.8 million and income tax benefits of approximately $0.5 million and $0.3 million from option exercises during the six months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. We record stock-based compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the vesting period directly to additional paid-in capital.

During the six months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018, we issued 650,943 and 343,713 shares of Class A common stock, respectively, resulting from the exercise of stock options. The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the six months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018 based on market value at the exercise dates was approximately $3.2 million and $1.9 million, respectively. As of October 31, 2019, unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested stock option awards approximated $7.0 million, which we expect to recognize over a weighted average period of 2.03 years.

G. Fair Value of Financial Instruments


•Level 1—Quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets.

•Level 2—Quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active; and model-derived valuations in which all significant inputs and significant value drivers are observable in active markets.

•Level 3—Valuations derived from valuation techniques in which one or more significant inputs or significant value drivers are unobservable.

The following is a general description of the valuation methodologies we use for financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value, including the general classification of such assets and liabilities pursuant to the valuation hierarchy.

Cash Equivalents—Cash equivalents include investments in government obligation based money-market funds, other money market instruments and interest-bearing deposits with initial terms of three months or less. The fair value of cash equivalents approximates its carrying value due to the short-term nature of these instruments.

Marketable Securities—Marketable securities utilizing Level 1 inputs include active exchange-traded equity securities and equity index funds, and most U.S. government debt securities, as these securities all have quoted prices in active markets. Marketable securities utilizing Level 2 inputs include municipal bonds. We value these securities using market-corroborated pricing or other models that use observable inputs such as yield curves.




 H. Stock Repurchases

On August 19, 2002, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional 2.0 million shares of our Class A common stock. We have made and will make these repurchases through open market purchases at prevailing market prices. The timing of any repurchase will depend upon market conditions, the market price of our Class A common stock and management’s assessment of our liquidity and cash flow needs. Under this repurchase plan, we have repurchased 1,053,679 shares of Class A common stock at a cost of approximately $6.2 million, which had no impact on fiscal 2020. As of October 31, 2019, under all repurchase plans previously authorized, including this most recent plan, we have repurchased a total of 4,588,632 shares of common stock at a cost of approximately $25.6 million.

I. Comprehensive Income

We have not included Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income in the accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements since comprehensive income and net earnings presented in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations would be substantially the same.

J. Industry Segments

FASB ASC 280, Segment Reporting, establishes standards for reporting information about operating segments. Operating segments are defined as components of a public entity about which separate financial information is available that is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision makers (“CODMs”), or decision making group, in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. Our CODMs are our Principal Executive Officer and our President. While our CODMs are apprised of a variety of financial metrics and information, we manage our business primarily on a segment basis, with the CODMs evaluating performance based upon segment operating profit or loss, with certain corporate and other common expenses included in the Other segment. Our CODMs review the operating results of our three segments, assess performance and allocate resources in a manner that is consistent with the changing market dynamics that we have experienced. We recently updated our operating segments to reflect the fact that we provide our software solutions through three major operating segments, which are further broken down into a total of six major product and service groups. The three operating segments are (1) Supply Chain Management (“SCM”), (2) Information Technology (“IT”) Consulting and (3) Other.

Our primary operating units under our SCM segment include Logility, Inc., New Generation Computing, Inc. (“NGC”), Demand Management, Inc. (“DMI”), and Halo Business Intelligence (“Halo”). Logility and NGC are wholly-owned subsidiaries of American Software; DMI is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Logility; and Halo is a division of Logility. In addition to our core SCM software business, we also offer technology staffing and consulting services through our wholly-owned subsidiary, The Proven Method, Inc., in the IT Consulting segment. The Other segment consists of software and services provided to our legacy enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) customers, as well as corporate overhead and other common expenses.

All of our revenues are derived from external customers. We do not have any intersegment revenue. Our income taxes and dividends are paid at a consolidated level. Consequently, it is not practical to show these items by operating segment.



K. Major Customers

No single customer accounted for more than 10% of total revenues for the three and six months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018.

L. Contingencies

We generally indemnify our customers against damages and costs resulting from third-party claims of patent, copyright or trademark infringement associated with use of our products. Historically, we have not been required to make any payments under such indemnifications. However, we continue to monitor the conditions that are subject to indemnification to identify whether it is probable that a loss has occurred, and would recognize any such losses when those losses are estimable. In addition, we warrant to our customers that our software products operate substantially in accordance with their specifications. Historically, we have 

incurred no costs related to software product warranties and we do not expect to incur such costs in the future, and as such we have made no accruals for software product warranty costs. Additionally, we are involved in various claims arising in the ordinary course of business. In the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations.

M. Subsequent Event

On November 12, 2019, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.11 per share of our Class A and Class B common stock. The cash dividend is payable on February 21, 2020 to Class A and Class B shareholders of record at the close of business on February 7, 2020.

Item 2.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

This quarterly report on Form 10-Q (this “Quarterly Report”) contains forward-looking statements relating to our future financial performance, business strategy, financing plans and other future events that involve uncertainties and risks. You can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “continue,” “could,” “grow,” “may,” “potential,” “predict,” “strive” “will,” “seek,” “estimate,” “believe,” “expect,” and similar expressions that convey uncertainty of future events or outcomes. Any forward-looking statements we make herein are pursuant to the safe harbor provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include statements concerning future:

•results of operations;

•liquidity, cash flow and capital expenditures;

•demand for and pricing of our products and services;

•annual contract value (“ACV”);

•viability and effectiveness of strategic alliances;

•industry conditions and market conditions;

•acquisition activities and the effect of completed acquisitions; and

•general economic conditions.

Although we believe that the goals, plans, expectations, and prospects that our forward-looking statements reflect are reasonable in view of the information currently available to us, those statements are not guarantees of performance. There are many factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by forward-looking statements made herein. These factors include, but are not limited to, continuing U.S. and global economic uncertainty, the timing and degree of business recovery, unpredictability and the irregular pattern of future revenues, dependence on particular market segments or customers, competitive pressures, delays, product liability and warranty claims and other risks associated with new product development, undetected software errors, market acceptance of our products, technological complexity, the challenges and risks associated with integration of acquired product lines, companies and services, as well as a number of other risk factors that could affect our future performance. All forward-looking statements included in this Quarterly Report are based upon information available to us as of the filing date of this Quarterly Report. We undertake no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements for any reason. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these statements. We discuss certain factors in greater detail in “Business Overview” below.

ECONOMIC OVERVIEW

Corporate capital spending trends and commitments are the primary determinants of the size of the market for business software. Corporate capital spending is, in turn, a function of general economic conditions in the U.S. and abroad and in particular may be affected by conditions in global credit markets.

In October 2019, the International Monetary Fund (“IMF”) provided an update to the World Economic Outlook for 2019. The update noted that, “Global growth is forecast at 3.0 percent for 2019, its lowest level since 2008–09 and a 0.3 percentage point downgrade from the April 2019 World Economic Outlook. Growth is projected to pick up to 3.4 percent in 2020 (a 0.2 percentage point downward revision compared with April), reflecting primarily a projected improvement in economic performance in a number of emerging markets in Latin America, the Middle East, and emerging and developing Europe that are under macroeconomic strain. Yet, with uncertainty about prospects for several of these countries, a projected slowdown in China and the United States, and prominent downside risks, a much more subdued pace of global activity could well materialize. To forestall such an outcome, policies should decisively aim at defusing trade tensions, reinvigorating multilateral cooperation, and providing timely support to economic activity where needed. To strengthen resilience, policymakers should address financial vulnerabilities that pose risks to growth in the medium term. Making growth more inclusive, which is essential for securing better economic prospects for all, should remain an overarching goal."

For fiscal 2020, we expect the global economy to improve modestly when compared to the prior year. We believe information technology spending will incrementally improve over the long term as increased global competition forces companies to improve productivity by upgrading their technology systems, which could result in an improved selling environment. Although this 

improvement could slow or regress at any time, due in part to concerns in global capital markets and general economic conditions, we believe that our organizational and financial structure will enable us to take advantage of any sustained economic rebound. Customers continue to take long periods to evaluate discretionary software purchases.

We believe improved economic conditions may be driving some businesses to focus on achieving more process and efficiency enhancements in their operations and to invest in solutions that improve operating margins, rather than make large infrastructure-type technology purchases. If this trend continues, we believe it may tend to favor solutions such as our supply chain solutions, which are designed to provide a more rapid return on investment and are targeted at some of the largest profit drivers in a customer’s business.

BUSINESS OVERVIEW


The Company enables enterprises to accelerate their operations from product concept to customer availability. Our four brands - Logility, Demand Solutions, Halo and NGC Software - provide a single platform spanning eight supply chain process areas, including demand optimization, inventory optimization, supply optimization, retail optimization, quality and compliance, product lifecycle management, sourcing management and integrated business planning. Our platform includes advanced analytics and is fueled by supply chain master data, allowing for the automation of critical business processes through the application of artificial intelligence and machine learning algorithms to a variety of internal and external data streams.

Our primary operating units under our SCM segment include Logility, Inc., New Generation Computing, Inc. (“NGC”), Demand Management, Inc. (“DMI”), and Halo Business Intelligence (“Halo”). Logility and NGC are wholly-owned subsidiaries of American Software; DMI is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Logility; and Halo is a division of Logility. In addition to our core SCM software business, we also offer technology staffing and consulting services through our wholly-owned subsidiary, The Proven Method, Inc., in the IT Consulting segment. The Other segment consists of software and services provided to our legacy enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) customers, as well as corporate overhead and other common expenses.


Our cost of revenue for licenses and subscriptions includes amortization of capitalized computer software development costs, amortization of acquired developed technology, royalties paid to third-party software vendors, and agent commission expenses related to revenues generated by the indirect channel, primarily from DMI. Costs for maintenance and services include the cost of personnel to conduct implementations and customer support, consulting, other personnel-related expenses, and agent commission expenses related to maintenance revenues generated by the indirect channel, primarily from DMI. We account for the development costs of software intended for sale in accordance with the Software topic of the FASB ASC. We monitor the net realizable value of our capitalized software on a quarterly basis based on an estimate of future product revenues. We currently expect to fully recover the value of the capitalized software asset recorded on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets; however, if future product revenues are less than management’s current expectations, we may incur a write-down of capitalized software costs.

Our selling expenses mainly include the salary and commissions paid to our sales professionals, along with marketing, promotional, travel and associated costs. Our general and administrative expenses mainly include the salary and benefits paid to executive, corporate and support personnel, as well as facilities-related costs, utilities, communications expenses, and various professional fees.



•Dependence on Capital Spending Patterns. There is risk associated with our dependence on the capital spending patterns of U.S. and international businesses, which in turn are functions of economic trends and conditions over which we have no control.

•Acquisition Risks. There are risks associated with acquisitions of complementary companies, products and technologies, including the risks that we will not achieve the financial and strategic goals that we contemplate at the time of the transaction. More specifically, in any acquisition we will face risks and challenges associated with the uncertain value of the acquired business or assets, the difficulty of assimilating operations and personnel, integrating acquired technologies and products and maintaining the loyalty of the customers of the acquired business.

•Competitive Technologies. There is a risk that our competitors may develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology.


A discussion of a number of additional risk factors associated with our business is included in our Annual Report for fiscal 2019. Additional information and other factors that could affect future financial results may be included, from time to time, in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

For information with respect to recent accounting pronouncements, if any, and the impact of these pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements, if any, see Note A in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report.

COMPARISON OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS



nm - not meaningful



nm - not meaningful

COMPARISON OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE THREE AND SIX ENDED OCTOBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 

REVENUES



For the three months ended October 31, 2019 compared to October 31, 2018 revenues remained relatively flat attributable primarily to a 64% increase in subscription fees that were partially offset by a 48% decrease in license revenues, a 7% decrease in maintenance revenues and a 2% decrease in professional fees and other revenues, when compared to the same period last year. 

For the six months ended October 31, 2019 compared to October 31, 2018 revenues remained flat attributable primarily to a 53% increase in subscription fees that were partially offset by a 24% decrease in license revenues, a 6% decrease in maintenance revenues and a 5% decrease in professional fees and other revenues, when compared to the same period last year. 

Due to intense competition in our industry, we sometimes discount license fees from our published list price. Numerous factors contribute to the amount of the discount provided, such as previous customer purchases, the number of customer sites utilizing the software, the number of modules purchased and the number of users, as well as the overall size of the contract. While all these factors may affect the discount amount of a particular contract, the overall percentage discount has not materially changed in the recent reported fiscal periods.

The change in our revenues from period to period is primarily due to the volume of products and related services sold in any period and the number of products or modules purchased with each sale.

International revenues represented approximately 19% and 21% of total revenues in the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, respectively, compared to 20% for the same periods in the prior year. Our revenues, particularly our international revenues, may fluctuate substantially from period to period, primarily because we derive most of our license fee revenues from a relatively small number of customers in a given period.

License Revenues



For the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, license fee revenues decreased 48% and 24%, respectively, when compared to the same period in the prior year. In the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, license fee revenues from our SCM segment decreased 47% and 24%, respectively, when compared to the corresponding periods in the prior year due to our transition of new and existing business into the cloud subscription model compared to the historical on premise software model. The majority of our current license fee revenue is generated from additional users and scope from our existing customers. For the three months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018, our SCM segment constituted approximately 97% and 96% of total license fee revenues, respectively. For the six months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018, our SCM segment constituted approximately 96% and 97% of total license fee revenues, respectively. Our Other segment license fee revenues decreased by 64% and remained flat, 

respectively, for the three and six months ended October 31, 2019 when compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to timing of additional sales to our existing ERP customers.

The direct sales channel provided approximately 92% and 94% of license fee revenues for the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, compared to approximately 93% and 91% in the comparable periods last year. The increase in the percentage of sales by our direct sales channel for the six month period was due to our indirect channel selling proportionately more SaaS than license contracts compared to our direct channel. For the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, our margins after commissions on direct sales were approximately 86% and 89%, compared to 85% and 88% in the comparable periods last year. The increase in margins is due to the mix of sales commission rates based on each individual salesperson’s quotas and related achievement. For the three months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018, our margins after commissions on indirect sales were approximately 54% and 60%, respectively. For the six months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018, our margins after commissions on indirect sales were approximately 54% and 55%, respectively. The indirect channel margins for the current quarter decreased compared to the same periods in the prior year due to the mix of value-added reseller (“VAR”) commission rates. These margin calculations include only commission expense for comparative purposes and do not include other costs of license fees such as amortization of capitalized software.

Subscription Fees



For the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, subscription fees revenues increased by 64% and 53%, respectively, primarily due to an increase in the number of contracts, contracts with a higher Annual Contract Value, as well as an increase in multi-year contracts. This is evidence of our successful transition to the cloud subscription model.

For the six months ended October 31, 2019, cloud services ACV increased approximately 55% to $22.4 million compared to $14.5 million in the same period of the prior year due to increased sales of our products on our cloud services platform that require revenue to be deferred over the life of the contracted period, which is typically one to three years. ACV is a forward-looking operating measure used by management to better understand cloud services (SaaS and other related cloud services) revenue trends within our business, as it reflects our current estimate of revenue to be generated under existing client contracts in the forward 12-month period.

Professional Services and Other Revenues



For the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, professional services and other revenues decreased by 2% and 5%, respectively, due to the decreased professional services and other revenues from our Other and IT Consulting segments. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in professional services and other revenues from our SCM segment. For the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, our Other segment’s revenues decreased 19% and increased 2%, respectively when compared to the same periods last year. For the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, our IT Consulting segment’s revenues decreased 20% and 19% when compared to the same periods in the prior year due to a decrease in project work from existing customers. For the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, our SCM segment’s revenues increased 16% and 8%, respectively, primarily due to a ramp up of implementation project work during the quarter. We have observed that there is a tendency for services and other revenues, other than from IT Consulting, to lag changes in license and subscription revenues by one to three quarters, as new licenses and subscriptions in one quarter often involve implementation and consulting services in subsequent quarters, for which we recognize revenues only as we perform those services.

Maintenance Revenues



For the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, maintenance revenues decreased 7% and 6%, respectively when compared to the same periods in the prior year. Our SCM maintenance revenue decreased 7% and 5% for the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, when compared to the same periods last year. The SCM segment accounted for 97% of total maintenance revenues for the three and six months ended October 31, 2019 and for the same periods in the prior year. Typically, our maintenance revenues have had a direct relationship to current and historic license fee revenues, since new licenses are the potential source of new maintenance customers.

GROSS MARGIN



For the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, our total gross margin percentages increased when compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily due to our higher margins on maintenance revenue and professional services and other revenue, partially offset by lower margins on subscription fees and license fee revenue.

Gross Margin on License Fees

License fee gross margin percentage for the three and six months ended October 31, 2019 decreased and increased, respectively, when compared to the same period in the prior year. License fee gross margin percentage tends to be directly related to the level of license fee revenues due to the relatively fixed cost of computer software amortization expense, amortization of acquired software and the sales mix between our direct and indirect channels.

Gross Margin on Subscription Fees

Our gross margin percentage on subscription fees revenues decreased from 61% and 64% for the three and six months ended October 31, 2018 to 53% and 52% for the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, respectively, primarily due to an increase in capitalized software amortization expense and hosting expense.

Gross Margin on Professional Services and Other

Our gross margin percentage on professional services and other revenues increased from 27% for the three months ended October 31, 2018 to 30% for the three months ended October 31, 2019, and increased from 24% for the six months ended October 31, 2018 to 29% for the six months ended October 31, 2019. This increase was primarily due to higher gross margins in our SCM segment services of 37% and 28% for the three months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018, and 34% and 23% for the six months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, due to higher billing utilization from several large projects ending during the quarter. Our Other segment professional services gross margin decreased from 51% to 46% for the three months ended October 31, 2018 and 2019, respectively, and increased from 45% to 51% for the six months ended October 31, 2018 and 2019, due to higher margin projects year to date. Our IT Consulting segment professional services gross margin decreased from 24% to 19% for the three months ended October 31, 2018 and 2019, respectively, and 24% to 20% for the six months ended October 31, 2018 and 2019, respectively, due to lower margin projects in the current quarter. Professional services and other gross margin is directly related to the level of services and other revenues. The primary component of cost of services and other revenues is services staffing, which is relatively inelastic in the short term.

Gross Margin on Maintenance

Maintenance gross margin percentage for the three and six months ended October 31, 2019 increased to 83% from 81% when compared to the same periods last year due to cost containment efforts. The primary cost component is maintenance staffing, which is relatively inelastic in the short term.

EXPENSES


nm - not meaningful

Research and Development




For the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, gross product research and development costs increased 6% and 4%, respectively, when compared to the same periods in the previous year due partially to increased variable compensation and infrastructure costs in our SCM segment. We expect capitalized product development costs to decrease due to timing of projects and we expect capitalized software amortization expense to be relatively stable in the coming quarters. Costs included in gross product development are salaries of product development personnel, hardware lease expense, computer software expense, telephone expense and rent.

Sales and Marketing

For the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, sales and marketing expenses decreased 3% and increased 2%, respectively, when compared to the same periods a year ago, primarily due to the timing of marketing costs.

General and Administrative

For the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, general and administrative expenses increased 11% and 13%, respectively, when compared to the same periods a year ago, primarily due to an increase in variable compensation and to a lesser extent legal fees.

At October 31, 2019, the total number of employees was 411 compared to 452 at October 31, 2018.



nm - not meaningful


Our SCM segment operating income increased by 10% and 17% in the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, respectively, compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily due to an overall increase in revenues and improved gross margins.

Our IT Consulting segment’s operating income decreased by 103% and 78% for the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, respectively, compared to same periods last year primarily due to decreased revenues and gross margins.

Our Other segment operating loss increased by 23% and 19% for the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, respectively, when compared to the same periods in the prior year due to an increase in corporate expenses, primarily variable compensation.

Other Income

Other income is comprised of net interest and dividend income, rental income, exchange rate gains and losses, and realized and unrealized gains and losses from investments. For the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, the increase in other income is mainly due to higher unrealized gains on investments when compared to the same periods last year. We recorded realized losses of approximately $93,000 and $365,000 and unrealized gains of approximately $386,000 and $721,000 for the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, respectively, from our trading securities portfolio. We recorded realized losses of approximately $157,000 and $205,000 and unrealized losses of approximately $543,000 and $107,000 the three and six months ended October 31, 2018 respectively, from our trading securities portfolio.

For the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, our investments generated an annualized yield of approximately 1.29% and 1.35%, respectively, compared to approximately 1.32% and 1.40% for the three and six months ended October 31, 2018, respectively.

Income Taxes

We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their tax bases. We measure deferred tax assets and liabilities using statutory tax rates in effect in the year in which we expect the differences to reverse. We establish a deferred tax asset for the expected future benefit of net operating loss and credit carry-forwards. Under the Income Tax Topic of the FASB 

ASC, we cannot recognize a deferred tax asset for the future benefit of our net operating losses, tax credits and temporary differences unless we can establish that it is “more likely than not” that the deferred tax asset would be realized.

During the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, we recorded an income tax benefit of $204,000 and $34,000, respectively, primarily due to discrete stock compensation benefits of $412,000 and $472,000 respectively, net of normal income tax expense from operations. During the three and six months ended October 31, 2018, we recorded income tax expense of $93,000 and $68,000, respectively, primarily due to discrete stock compensation benefits of $12,000 and $286,000 respectively, net of normal income tax expense from operations. Before adjusting for these discrete tax benefits, our effective tax rate would have been 13.4% and 15.3%, respectively, in the three and six months ended October 31, 2019 compared to our tax effective rate of 7.9% and 13.1% in the three and six months ended October 31, 2018. In addition, research and development and foreign tax credits reduced our effective tax rate by 8.1% and 1.4%, respectively, in the six months ended October 31, 2019, compared to reductions of 8.0% and 3.0%, respectively, in the six months ended October 31, 2018.

Operating Pattern

We experience an irregular pattern of quarterly operating results, caused primarily by fluctuations in both the number and size of software license and subscription contracts received and delivered from quarter to quarter and our ability to recognize revenues in that quarter in accordance with our revenue recognition policies. We expect this pattern to continue.

LIQUIDITY, CAPITAL RESOURCES AND FINANCIAL CONDITION

Sources and Uses of Cash

We have historically funded, and continue to fund, our operations and capital expenditures primarily with cash generated from operating activities. The changes in net cash that our operating activities provide generally reflect the changes in net earnings and non-cash operating items plus the effect of changes in operating assets and liabilities, such as investment trading securities, trade accounts receivable, trade accounts payable, accrued expenses and deferred revenue. We have no debt obligations or off-balance sheet financing arrangements, and therefore, we used no cash for debt service purposes.

The following table shows information about our cash flows and liquidity positions during the six months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018. You should read this table and the discussion that follows in conjunction with our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows contained in Item 1 in Part I of this Quarterly Report and in our Annual Report for fiscal 2019.




The decrease in cash used in investing activities when compared to the same period in the prior year was mainly due to decreases in purchases of property and capitalized computer software development costs.

The decrease in cash used in financing activities compared to the prior year was due primarily to an increase in proceeds from exercise of stock options, which was partially offset by an increase in dividends paid.



Our total activities used less cash and investments during the six months ended October 31, 2019, when compared to the prior year period, primarily due to normal business operations.

Days Sales Outstanding in accounts receivable were 58 days as of October 31, 2019, compared to 66 days as of October 31, 2018. This increase is primarily due to the timing of billings and cash collections. Our current ratio on October 31, 2019 was 2.7 to 1 and on October 31, 2018 was 2.8 to 1.

Our business in recent periods has generated substantial positive cash flow from operations, excluding purchases and proceeds of sale of trading securities. For this reason, and because we had $95.0 million in cash and investments with no debt as of October 31, 2019, we believe that our sources of liquidity and capital resources will be sufficient to satisfy our presently anticipated requirements during at least the next twelve months for working capital, capital expenditures and other corporate needs. However, at some future date we may need to seek additional sources of capital to meet our requirements. If such need arises, we may be required to raise additional funds through equity or debt financing. We do not currently have a bank line of credit. We can provide no assurance that bank lines of credit or other financing will be available on terms acceptable to us. If available, such financing may result in dilution to our shareholders or higher interest expense.

On August 19, 2002, our Board of Directors approved a resolution authorizing the repurchase of up to an additional 2.0 million shares of our Class A common stock. We have made and will make these repurchases through open market purchases at prevailing market prices. The timing of any repurchase will depend upon market conditions, the market price of our common stock and management’s assessment of our liquidity and cash flow needs. Under this repurchase plan, through October 31, 2019, we have repurchased 1,053,679 shares of common stock at a cost of approximately $6.2 million. As of October 31, 2019, under all repurchase plans previously authorized, including this most recent plan, we have repurchased a total of 4,588,632 shares of common stock at a cost of approximately $25.6 million.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES


We believe the critical accounting policies listed below affect significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.

Revenue Recognition. For information with respect to revenue recognition policy, see Note B in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report.

Income Taxes. We provide for the effect of income taxes on our financial position and results of operations in accordance with the Income Tax Topic of the FASB ASC. Under this accounting guidance, income tax expense is recognized for the amount of income taxes payable or refundable for the current year and for the change in net deferred tax assets or liabilities resulting from 

events that are recorded for financial reporting purposes in a different reporting period than recorded in the tax return. Management must make significant assumptions, judgments and estimates to determine our current provision for income taxes and also our deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance to be recorded against our net deferred tax asset. Our judgments, assumptions and estimates relative to the current provision for income tax take into account current tax laws, our interpretation of current tax laws, allowable deductions, and projected tax credits. Changes in tax law or our interpretation of tax laws could significantly impact the amounts provided for income taxes in our financial position and results of operations. Our assumptions, judgments and estimates relative to the value of our deferred tax assets take into account our expectations of the amount and category of future taxable income. Actual operating results and the underlying amount and category of income in future years, which could significantly increase tax expense, could render inaccurate our current assumptions, judgments and estimates of recoverable net deferred taxes.

Item 3Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Foreign Currency. In the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, we generated approximately 19% and 21% of our revenues outside the United States. We typically make international sales through our VARs and employees located in foreign countries and denominate those sales in U.S. dollars, British pounds sterling or euros. However, expenses incurred in connection with these sales are typically denominated in the local currencies. We recorded exchange rate losses of approximately $0.1 million and $0.2 million for the three and six months ended October 31, 2019 compared to an exchange rate loss of approximately $0.1 million and $0.4 million for the same periods in the prior year. We estimate that a 10% movement in foreign currency rates would have had the effect of creating up to a $0.3 million and $0.4 million exchange rate gain or loss for the three and six months ended October 31, 2019. We have not engaged in any hedging activities.

Interest Rates and Other Market Risks. We have no debt, and therefore limit our discussion of interest rate risk to risk associated with our investment profile. We manage our interest rate risk by maintaining an investment portfolio of trading investments with high credit quality and relatively short average maturities. These instruments include, but are not limited to, money-market instruments, bank time deposits, and taxable and tax-advantaged variable rate and fixed rate obligations of corporations, municipalities, and national, state, and local government agencies, in accordance with an investment policy approved by our Board of Directors. These instruments are denominated in U.S. dollars. The fair market value of these instruments as of October 31, 2019 was approximately $89.7 million compared to $74.9 million as of October 31, 2018.

We also hold cash balances in accounts with commercial banks in the United States and foreign countries. These cash balances represent operating balances only and are invested in short-term time deposits of the local bank. Such operating cash balances held at banks outside the United States are denominated in the local currency and are minor.

Many of our investments carry a degree of interest rate risk. When interest rates fall, our income from investments in variable-rate securities declines. When interest rates rise, the fair market value of our investments in fixed-rate securities declines. In addition, our investments in equity securities are subject to stock market volatility. Due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations or we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell securities, which have seen a decline in market value due to changes in interest rates. We attempt to mitigate risk by holding fixed-rate securities to maturity, but, if our liquidity needs force us to sell fixed-rate securities prior to maturity, we may experience a loss of principal.

Inflation. Although we cannot accurately determine the amounts attributable thereto, we have been affected by inflation through increased costs of employee compensation and other operational expenses. To the extent permitted by the marketplace for our products and services, we attempt to recover increases in costs by periodically increasing prices.

Item 4.Controls and Procedures

Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

Our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”)) are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed in our reports filed or submitted under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC rules and forms. Our disclosure controls and procedures are also designed to ensure that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, to allow timely decisions regarding disclosure.

Our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, with the assistance of our Disclosure Committee, have conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this Quarterly Report. We perform this evaluation on a quarterly basis so that the conclusions concerning the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures can be reported in our Annual Report and Quarterly Reports. Based on this evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this Quarterly Report.

Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting

There have not been any changes in our internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) during the fiscal quarter to which this report relates that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

PART II—OTHER INFORMATION

Item 1.Legal Proceedings

We are not currently involved in legal proceedings requiring disclosure under this item.

Item 1A.Risk Factors

In addition to the other information set forth in this Quarterly Report, you should carefully consider the risk factors disclosed in Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” of our Annual Report for fiscal 2019. There have been no material changes to the risk factors as previously disclosed in such Annual Report.

Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds

None.

Item 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities

Not applicable.

Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures

Not applicable.

Item 5.Other Information

None.

Item 6.Exhibits





SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


