
UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION




For the Quarterly Period Ended September 30, 2019 

OR


For the transition period from to 

Commission File Number 1-15839 

ACTIVISION BLIZZARD, INC. 









Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer”, “accelerated filer”, “smaller reporting company”, and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.




The number of shares of the registrant’s Common Stock outstanding at October 31, 2019 was 768,260,070.
ACTIVISION BLIZZARD, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT

This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains, or incorporates by reference, certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements consist of any statement other than a recitation of historical facts and include, but are not limited to: (1) projections of revenues, expenses, income or loss, earnings or loss per share, cash flow, or other financial items; (2) statements of our plans and objectives, including those related to releases of products or services and restructuring activities; (3) statements of future financial or operating performance, including the impact of tax items thereon; and (4) statements of assumptions underlying such statements. Activision Blizzard, Inc. generally uses words such as “outlook,” “forecast,” “will,” “could,” “should,” “would,” “to be,” “plan,” “plans,” “believes,” “may,” “might,” “expects,” “intends,” “intends as,” “anticipates,” “estimate,” “future,” “positioned,” “potential,” “project,” “remain,” “scheduled,” “set to,” “subject to,” “upcoming,” and other similar expressions to help identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to business and economic risks, reflect management’s current expectations, estimates, and projections about our business, and are inherently uncertain and difficult to predict.

We caution that a number of important factors could cause our actual future results and other future circumstances to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. Such factors include, but are not limited to: our ability to consistently deliver popular, high-quality titles in a timely manner; our ability to satisfy the expectations of consumers with respect to our brands, games, services, and/or business practices; concentration of revenue among a small number of titles; the continued growth in the scope and complexity of our business, including the diversion of management time and attention to issues relating to the operations of our newly acquired or started businesses and the potential impact of our expansion into new businesses on our existing businesses; our ability to realize the expected financial and operational benefits of, and effectively manage, our recently announced restructuring plans; increasing importance of revenues derived from digital distribution channels; risks associated with the retail sales business model; substantial influence of third-party platform providers over our products and costs; success and availability of video game consoles manufactured by third parties; risks associated with the free-to-play business model, including dependence on a relatively small number of consumers for a significant portion of revenues and profits from any given game; risks and costs associated with legal proceedings; changes in tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities, as well as the outcome of current or future tax disputes; rapid changes in technology and industry standards; competition, including from other forms of entertainment; our ability to sell products at assumed pricing levels; our ability to attract, retain, and motivate skilled personnel; reliance on external developers for development of some of our software products; the amount of our debt and the limitations imposed by the covenants in the agreements governing our debt; counterparty risks relating to customers, licensees, licensors, and manufacturers; intellectual property claims; piracy and unauthorized copying of our products; risks and uncertainties of conducting business outside the United States (“U.S.”); fluctuations in currency exchange rates; increasing regulation of our business, products, and distribution in key territories; compliance with continually evolving laws and regulations concerning data privacy; potential data breaches and other cybersecurity risks; and the other factors identified in “Risk Factors” included in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. 

The forward-looking statements contained herein are based on information available to Activision Blizzard, Inc. as of the date of this filing and we assume no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements. Although these forward-looking statements are believed to be true when made, they may ultimately prove to be incorrect. These statements are not guarantees of our future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and other factors, some of which are beyond our control and may cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations.

Activision Blizzard, Inc.’s names, abbreviations thereof, logos, and product and service designators are all either the registered or unregistered trademarks or trade names of Activision Blizzard, Inc. All other product or service names are the property of their respective owners. All dollar amounts referred to in, or contemplated by, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q refer to U.S. dollars, unless otherwise explicitly stated to the contrary.

PART I. FINANCIAL INFORMATION

Item 1. Financial Statements

ACTIVISION BLIZZARD, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS




The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.

ACTIVISION BLIZZARD, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS




The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.

ACTIVISION BLIZZARD, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME




The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.

ACTIVISION BLIZZARD, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS





Excludes deferral and amortization of share-based compensation expense.


Includes the net effects of capitalization, deferral, and amortization of share-based compensation expense.

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.

ACTIVISION BLIZZARD, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY

For the Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2019




The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.

ACTIVISION BLIZZARD, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY

For the Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2018




The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.

ACTIVISION BLIZZARD, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements


1. Description of Business and Basis of Consolidation and Presentation

Activision Blizzard, Inc. is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive entertainment content and services. We develop and distribute content and services on video game consoles, personal computers (“PC”s), and mobile devices. We also operate esports leagues and events and create film and television content based on our intellectual property. The terms “Activision Blizzard,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” are used to refer collectively to Activision Blizzard, Inc. and its subsidiaries.

The Company was originally incorporated in California in 1979 and was reincorporated in Delaware in December 1992. In connection with the 2008 business combination by and among the Company (then known as Activision, Inc.), Vivendi S.A., and Vivendi Games, Inc., then an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi S.A., we were renamed Activision Blizzard, Inc.

Our Segments




In 2010, Activision entered into an exclusive relationship with Bungie, Inc. (“Bungie”) to publish games in the Destiny franchise. Effective December 31, 2018, Activision and Bungie mutually agreed to terminate their publishing relationship related to the Destiny franchise. As part of this termination, Activision agreed to transfer its publishing rights for the Destiny franchise to Bungie in exchange for cash and Bungie’s assumption of on-going customer obligations of Activision. Activision no longer has any material rights or obligations related to the Destiny franchise.


Blizzard Entertainment, Inc. (“Blizzard”) is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive software products and entertainment content, particularly for the PC platform. Blizzard primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including subscriptions, full-game, and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Blizzard products. Blizzard also maintains a proprietary online gaming service, Blizzard Battle.net®, which facilitates digital distribution of Blizzard content and selected Activision content, online social connectivity, and the creation of user-generated content. Blizzard also includes the activities of the Overwatch LeagueTM, the first major global professional esports league with city-based teams, and our Major League Gaming (“MLG”) business, which is responsible for various esports events and serves as a multi-platform network for Activision Blizzard esports content.



King Digital Entertainment (“King”) is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive entertainment content and services, primarily for the mobile platform, including for Google’s Android and Apple’s iOS. King also distributes its content and services on the PC platform, primarily via Facebook. King’s games are free to play; however, players can acquire in-game items, either with virtual currency or real currency, and we continue to focus on in-game advertising as a growing source of additional revenue.


Other


•the Activision Blizzard Distribution (“Distribution”) business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistics, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware.

Basis of Consolidation and Presentation

The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”) for interim reporting. Accordingly, certain notes or other information that are normally required by U.S. GAAP have been condensed or omitted if they substantially duplicate the disclosures contained in our annual audited consolidated financial statements. Additionally, the year-end condensed consolidated balance sheet data was derived from audited financial statements but does not include all disclosures required by U.S. GAAP. Accordingly, the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.

The preparation of the condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. In the opinion of management, all adjustments considered necessary for the fair statement of our financial position and results of operations in accordance with U.S. GAAP (consisting of normal recurring adjustments) have been included in the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. Actual results could differ from these estimates and assumptions.

The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts and operations of the Company. All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.

The Company considers events or transactions that occur after the balance sheet date, but before the financial statements are issued, to provide additional evidence relative to certain estimates or to identify matters that require additional disclosures. 

During the three months ended March 31, 2019, we identified an error principally related to the initial recognition of global intangible low-taxed income of foreign subsidiaries income taxes which should have been recorded in the three months and year ended December 31, 2018. Income tax expense for the three months and year ended December 31, 2018 should have been reduced by $35 million. This amount is not material to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2018, and we will revise our 2018 consolidated financial statements to correct this matter in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2019. Our condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2018, as presented in this Form 10-Q, has been revised to reflect the correction of this error.

Supplemental Cash Flow Information



2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 


In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued new guidance related to the accounting for leases. The new standard replaces all current U.S. GAAP guidance on this topic. The new standard, among other things, requires a lessee to classify a lease as either an operating or financing lease, and to recognize a lease liability and a right-of-use (“ROU”) asset for its leases. On January 1, 2019, we adopted the new lease accounting standard. As a result, we have updated our significant accounting policy disclosure to include our accounting policy for leases under the new standard. Refer to Note 3 for information about the impact of adoption on our condensed consolidated financial statements.

Leases

We determine if an arrangement is or contains a lease at contract inception. In certain of our lease arrangements, primarily those related to our data center arrangements, judgment is required in determining if a contract contains a lease. For these arrangements, there is judgment in evaluating if the arrangement provides us with an asset that is physically distinct, or that represents substantially all of the capacity of the asset, and if we have the right to direct the use of the asset. Lease assets and liabilities are recognized based on the present value of future lease payments over the lease term at the commencement date. Included in the lease liability are future lease payments that are fixed, in-substance fixed, or payments based on an index or rate known at the commencement date of the lease. Variable lease payments are recognized as lease expenses as incurred, and generally relate to variable payments made based on the level of services provided by the landlords of our leases. The operating lease ROU asset also includes any lease payments made prior to commencement, initial direct costs incurred, and lease incentives received. As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we generally use our incremental borrowing rate in determining the present value of future payments. The incremental borrowing rate represents the rate required to borrow funds over a similar term to purchase the leased asset, and is based on the information available at the commencement date of the lease. For leased assets with similar lease terms and asset type we applied a portfolio approach in determining a single incremental borrowing rate to apply to the leased assets. 

In determining our lease liability, the lease term includes options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise such option. For operating leases, the lease expense for minimum lease payments is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Finance lease assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the estimated life of the asset, not to exceed the length of the lease, with interest expense associated with finance lease liabilities recorded using the effective interest method. Leases with an initial term of 12 months or less are not recorded on the balance sheet, and we recognize lease expense for these leases on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 

We have lease agreements with lease and non-lease components. For our real estate, server and data center, and event production and broadcasting equipment leases, we elected the practical expedient to account for the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component. In all other lease arrangements, we account for lease and non-lease components separately. Additionally, for certain leases that have a group of leased assets with similar characteristics in size and composition, we may apply a portfolio approach to effectively account for the operating lease ROU assets and liabilities. 

Operating lease ROU assets are presented in “Other assets” and operating lease liabilities are presented in “Accrued expenses and other current liabilities” and “Other liabilities” on our condensed consolidated balance sheet. 

Finance lease ROU assets are presented in “Property and equipment, net” and finance lease liabilities are presented in “Accrued expenses and other current liabilities” and “Other liabilities” on our condensed consolidated balance sheet.

3. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements

Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements

Leases

As noted in Note 2 above, we adopted the new lease accounting standard effective January 1, 2019. We elected to apply an optional adoption method, which uses the effective date as the initial date of application on transition with no retrospective adjustments to prior periods. Additionally, we elected to apply the package of transition practical expedients which permitted us to, among other things, (1) not reassess if existing contracts contained leases under the new lease accounting standard and (2) carry forward our historical lease classifications.



The adoption of this standard did not have an impact on our condensed consolidated statement of operations or condensed consolidated statements of cash flows.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted

Goodwill

In January 2017, the FASB issued new guidance that eliminates Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test. Instead, if an entity forgoes a Step 0 test, that entity will be required to perform its annual or interim goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit, as determined in Step 1 from the goodwill impairment test, with its carrying amount and recognize an impairment charge, if any, for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value, not to exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to the reporting unit. The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, and should be applied prospectively. Early adoption is permitted. The effect of adoption should be reflected as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. We do not currently expect this new accounting guidance to have an impact on our financial statements upon adoption.

Cloud Computing Arrangements

In August 2018, the FASB issued new guidance related to a customer’s accounting for implementation costs incurred in a cloud computing arrangement (i.e. hosting arrangement) that is a service contract. The new guidance requires customers to capitalize implementation costs for these arrangements by applying the same criteria that are utilized for existing internal-use software guidance. The capitalized costs are required to be amortized over the associated term of the arrangement, generally on a straight-line basis, with amortization of these costs presented in the same financial statement line item as other costs associated with the arrangement. The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, and can be applied retrospectively or prospectively. Early adoption is permitted. We are evaluating the impact, if any, of adopting this new accounting guidance on our financial statements.

Financial Instruments - Credit Losses

In June 2016, the FASB issued new guidance related to accounting for credit losses on financial instruments. The update replaces the existing incurred loss impairment model with an expected loss model which requires the use of historical and forward-looking information to calculate credit loss estimates. It also eliminates the concept of other-than-temporary impairment and requires credit losses related to available-for-sale debt securities to be recorded through an allowance for credit losses rather than as a reduction in the amortized cost basis of the securities. These changes will generally result in earlier recognition of credit losses. The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, and will be applied on a modified retrospective basis, with the cumulative effect of adoption recorded as an adjustment to retained earnings. We are evaluating the impact, if any, of adopting this new accounting guidance on our financial statements, however, our preliminary conclusion is that the new guidance will not have a material impact on our financial statements and related disclosures.




At September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, inventory reserves were $13 million and $22 million, respectively.

5. Software Development and Intellectual Property Licenses



As of both September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, capitalized intellectual property licenses were not material.



6. Intangible Assets, Net





Amortization expense of our intangible assets was $50 million and $152 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively. Amortization expense of our intangible assets was $84 million and $280 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.






8. Fair Value Measurements


•Level 1—Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;

•Level 2—Observable inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data; and

•Level 3—Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities, including certain pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, and similar techniques that use significant unobservable inputs.

Fair Value Measurements on a Recurring Basis




Foreign Currency Forward Contracts

Foreign Currency Forward Contracts Designated as Hedges (“Cash Flow Hedges”)



At September 30, 2019, our Cash Flow Hedges have remaining maturities of three months or less. Additionally, $2 million of net realized but unrecognized gains are recorded within “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)” at September 30, 2019 for Cash Flow Hedges that had settled but were deferred and will be amortized into earnings, along with the associated hedged revenues. Such amounts will be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months.



Foreign Currency Forward Contracts Not Designated as Hedges



For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, pre-tax net gains (losses) associated with these forward contracts were recorded in “General and administrative expenses” and were not material.

Fair Value Measurements on a Non-Recurring Basis

We measure the fair value of certain assets on a non-recurring basis, generally annually or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. 

During the three months ended June 30, 2019, we recorded an upward adjustment of $38 million to an investment in equity securities, which has been historically recorded at cost, based on an observable and orderly transaction in the common stock of the investee. We recognized a corresponding unrealized gain within “Interest and other expense (income), net” in our condensed consolidated statement of operations. As of September 30, 2019, the carrying value of the investment is $42 million and is recorded in “Other assets” on our condensed consolidated balance sheet. We classify this investment as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy as we estimated the value based on valuation methods using the observable transaction price in a market with limited activity. 

For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, there were no impairment charges related to assets that are measured on a non-recurring basis.


We record deferred revenues when cash payments are received or due in advance of the fulfillment of our associated performance obligations. The opening balance of deferred revenues as of January 1, 2019 and the ending balance as of September 30, 2019, were $1.6 billion and $0.8 billion, respectively, including our current and non-current balances. For the nine months ended September 30, 2019, the additions to our deferred revenues balance were primarily due to cash payments received or due in advance of satisfying our performance obligations, while the reductions to our deferred revenues balance were primarily due to the recognition of revenues upon fulfillment of our performance obligations, both of which were in the ordinary course of business. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, $0.1 billion and $1.4 billion of revenues, respectively, were recognized that were included in the deferred revenues balance at December 31, 2018. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, $0.1 billion and $1.6 billion of revenues, respectively, were recognized that were included in the deferred revenues balance at January 1, 2018, as adjusted for the adoption of the new revenue standard in the prior year.

As of September 30, 2019, the aggregate amount of contracted revenues allocated to our unsatisfied performance obligations is $2.5 billion, which includes our deferred revenues balances and amounts to be invoiced and recognized as revenue in future periods. We expect to recognize approximately $1.4 billion over the next 12 months, $0.4 billion in the subsequent 12-month period, and the remainder thereafter. This balance does not include an estimate for variable consideration arising from sales-based royalty license revenue in excess of the contractual minimum guarantee.









As of September 30, 2019, we have entered into facility leases that have not yet commenced with future lease payments of approximately $57 million. These leases are expected to commence within the next 12 months and will have lease terms ranging from two years to five years.






Credit Facilities

As of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, we had $1.5 billion available under a revolving credit facility (the “Revolver”) pursuant to a credit agreement entered into on October 11, 2013 (as amended thereafter and from time to time, the “Credit Agreement”). To date, we have not drawn on the Revolver, and we were in compliance with the terms of the Credit Agreement as of September 30, 2019.

Refer to Note 13 contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 for further details regarding the Credit Agreement, its key terms, and previous amendments made to it.

Unsecured Senior Notes







The Notes are general senior obligations of the Company and rank pari passu in right of payment to all of the Company’s existing and future senior indebtedness, including the Revolver described above. The Notes are not secured and are effectively junior to any of the Company’s existing and future indebtedness that is secured to the extent of the value of the collateral securing such indebtedness. We were in compliance with the terms of the Notes as of September 30, 2019.

Interest is payable semi-annually in arrears on March 15 and September 15 of each year for the 2021 Notes and the 2026 Notes, and payable semi-annually in arrears on June 15 and December 15 of each year for the 2022 Notes, the 2027 Notes, and the 2047 Notes. Accrued interest payable is recorded within “Accrued expenses and other liabilities” in our condensed consolidated balance sheets. As of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, we had accrued interest payable of $14 million and $15 million, respectively, related to the Notes.

Refer to Note 13 contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 for further details regarding key terms under our indentures that govern the Notes.

Interest Expense and Financing Costs

Fees and discounts associated with the issuance of our debt instruments are recorded as debt discount, which reduces their respective carrying values, and are amortized over their respective terms. Amortization expense is recorded within “Interest and other expense (income), net” in our condensed consolidated statement of operations. 

For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, interest expense was $21 million and $64 million, respectively, and amortization of the debt discount and deferred financing costs was $1 million and $3 million, respectively. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, interest expense was $32 million and $113 million, respectively, and amortization of the debt discount and deferred financing costs was $1 million and $5 million, respectively.






With the exception of the 2047 Notes, using Level 2 inputs (i.e., observable market prices in less-than-active markets) at September 30, 2019, the carrying values of the Notes approximated their fair values, as the interest rates were similar to the current rates at which we could borrow funds over the selected interest periods. At September 30, 2019, based on Level 2 inputs, the fair value of the 2047 Notes was $454 million.

Using Level 2 inputs at December 31, 2018, the carrying values of the 2021 Notes and the 2022 Notes approximated their fair values, as the interest rates were similar to the current rates at which we could borrow funds over the selected interest periods. At December 31, 2018, based on Level 2 inputs, the fair values of the 2026 Notes, the 2027 Notes, and the 2047 Notes were $800 million, $376 million, and $360 million, respectively.

12. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)




13. Operating Segments and Geographic Region


Our operating segments are also consistent with our internal organizational structure, the way we assess operating performance and allocate resources, and the availability of separate financial information. We do not aggregate operating segments.












Reflects restructuring initiatives, primarily severance and other restructuring-related costs.










Intersegment revenues reflect licensing and service fees charged between segments.









Intersegment revenues reflect licensing and service fees charged between segments.

The Company’s net revenues in the U.S. were 46% of consolidated net revenues for both the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018. The Company’s net revenues in the U.K. were 13% of consolidated net revenues for both the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018. No other country’s net revenues exceeded 10% of consolidated net revenues for either the three months ended September 30, 2019 or 2018.

The Company’s net revenues in the U.S. were 48% and 47% of consolidated net revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The Company’s net revenues in the U.K. were 10% and 11% of consolidated net revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. No other country’s net revenues exceeded 10% of consolidated net revenues for either the nine months ended September 30, 2019 or 2018.













The only long-lived assets that we classify by region are our long-term tangible fixed assets, which consist of property, plant, and equipment assets; all other long-term assets are not allocated by location.



•increasing our investment in development for our largest, internally-owned franchises—across upfront releases, in-game content, mobile, and geographic expansion;

•reducing certain non-development and administrative-related costs across our business; and

•integrating our global and regional sales and “go-to-market,” partnerships, and sponsorships capabilities across the business, which we believe will enable us to provide better opportunities for talent, and greater expertise and scale on behalf of our business units.

The restructuring actions are in process and are largely expected to be completed by the end of 2019, although the timing of cash payments may continue into 2020.







Includes charges related to operating segments managed outside the reportable segments, including our Studios and Distribution businesses. Also includes restructuring charges for our corporate and administrative functions.


We expect to incur aggregate pre-tax restructuring charges of approximately $150 million in 2019 associated with the restructuring plan, which includes the inventory write-down discussed above. These charges will primarily relate to severance (approximately 55% of the aggregate charge), including, in many cases, amounts above those that are legally required, facilities costs (approximately 20% of the aggregate charge), and other asset write-downs and costs (approximately 25% of the aggregate charge). A majority of the total pre-tax charge associated with the restructuring will be paid in cash using amounts on hand and the outlays are expected to be largely incurred throughout 2019, with the remainder continuing into 2020.




Includes charges related to operating segments managed outside the reportable segments, including our Studios and Distribution businesses. Also includes restructuring charges for our corporate and administrative functions.


Interest and Other Expense (Income), Net





The income tax expense of $45 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019, reflects an effective tax rate of 18%, which is higher than the effective tax rate of (23)% for the three months ended September 30, 2018. The increase is primarily due to a discrete tax benefit recognized in the prior year in connection with adjustments made to the provisional amounts initially recorded in connection with tax reform legislation known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act enacted in December 22, 2017 (the “U.S. Tax Reform Act”), lower excess tax benefits from share-based payments in the current year, and an increase in U.S. tax on foreign earnings. 


The effective tax rate of 18% for both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, is lower than the U.S. statutory rate of 21%, primarily due to foreign earnings taxed at lower statutory rates as compared to domestic earnings, which is partially offset by U.S. tax on foreign earnings, and the recognition of federal research and development credits.

Activision Blizzard’s 2009 through 2018 tax years remain open to examination by certain major taxing jurisdictions to which we are subject. The IRS is currently examining our federal tax returns for the 2012 through 2016 tax years. We also have several state and non-U.S. audits pending, including the French audit discussed below. In addition, we are currently seeking a multilateral agreement among the tax authorities in the U.K., Sweden, and other relevant jurisdictions with respect to King’s transfer pricing for tax years dating back to 2013. While the outcome of any discussions aimed at such an agreement remains uncertain, they could result in an agreement that changes the allocation of profits and losses between these and other relevant jurisdictions or a failure to reach an agreement that results in unilateral adjustments to the amount and timing of taxable income in the jurisdictions in which King operates.

In December 2018, we received a decision from the Swedish Tax Agency (“STA”) informing us of an audit assessment of a Swedish subsidiary of King for the 2016 tax year (“Initial Decision”). The Initial Decision described the basis for issuing a transfer pricing assessment of approximately 3.5kr billion (approximately $359 million), primarily concerning an alleged intercompany asset transfer. On June 17, 2019, we received a reassessment from the STA (“Reassessment”) which changed the Initial Decision based on a revision of the transfer pricing approach reflected in King’s 2016 Swedish tax return and removal of the alleged intercompany asset transfer that was the basis of the Initial Decision. The STA also, at the same time, reassessed the 2017 tax year on the same transfer pricing basis as 2016. The transfer pricing approach reflected in the Reassessment for both 2016 and 2017 remains subject to further review by taxing authorities in other jurisdictions. In July 2019, the Company made a payment to the STA for the Reassessment for the 2016 and 2017 tax years, which did not result in a significant impact to our condensed consolidated financial statements.

In December 2017, we received a Notice of Reassessment from the French Tax Authority (“FTA”) related to transfer pricing for intercompany transactions involving one of our French subsidiaries for the 2011 through 2013 tax years. The total assessment, including penalties and interest, was approximately €571 million (approximately $625 million). We disagree with the proposed assessment and continue to vigorously contest it. We believe our tax provisions at September 30, 2019, were appropriate. Until such time as this matter is ultimately resolved we could be subject to significant additional tax liabilities. In addition to the risk of additional tax for the 2011 through 2013 tax years, if the FTA were to seek adjustments of a similar nature for subsequent years, we could be subject to significant additional tax liabilities.

In October 2019, we completed an intra-entity transfer of certain intellectual property rights to one of our subsidiaries in the U.K. The transfer did not result in a taxable gain; however, our U.K. subsidiary received a step-up in tax basis. We are currently assessing the tax impacts associated with this transfer, including its impact to deferred taxes. We expect to record a one-time benefit for the recognition of a deferred tax asset in the U.K. related to the amortizable tax basis in the transferred intellectual property, partially offset by a related deferred tax liability for U.S. taxes on foreign earnings. The net tax impact of this intra-entity asset transfer will be recorded in the quarter ending December 31, 2019. While this one-time impact may be material to our financial statements, we do not expect the transfer to materially affect cash taxes or operating cash flows in 2019.

In addition, certain of our subsidiaries are under examination or investigation, or may be subject to examination or investigation, by tax authorities in various jurisdictions. These proceedings may lead to adjustments or proposed adjustments to our taxes or provisions for uncertain tax positions. Such proceedings may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations in the earlier of the period or periods in which the matters are resolved and in which appropriate tax provisions are taken into account in our financial statements. If we were to receive a materially adverse assessment from a taxing jurisdiction, we would plan to vigorously contest it and consider all of our options, including the pursuit of judicial remedies.

We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations and monitor the progress of ongoing discussions with tax authorities in determining the appropriateness of our tax provisions. The final resolution of the Company’s global tax disputes is uncertain. There is significant judgment required in the analysis of disputes, including the probability determination and estimation of the potential exposure. Based on current information, in the opinion of the Company’s management, the ultimate resolution of these matters is not expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial position, liquidity or results of operations, except as noted above.




The vesting of certain of our employee-related restricted stock units and options is contingent upon the satisfaction of pre-defined performance measures. The shares underlying these equity awards are included in the weighted-average dilutive common shares only if the performance measures are met as of the end of the reporting period. Additionally, potential common shares are not included in the denominator of the diluted earnings per common share calculation when the inclusion of such shares would be anti-dilutive. 




Repurchase Program

On January 31, 2019, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program under which we are authorized to repurchase up to $1.5 billion of our common stock from February 14, 2019, until the earlier of February 13, 2021, and a determination by the Board of Directors to discontinue the repurchase program. As of September 30, 2019, we have not repurchased any shares under this program.

Dividends

On February 12, 2019, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.37 per common share. On May 9, 2019, we made an aggregate cash dividend payment of $283 million to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 28, 2019.

On February 8, 2018, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.34 per common share. On May 9, 2018, we made an aggregate cash dividend payment of $259 million to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 30, 2018.

19. Commitments and Contingencies

Legal Proceedings

We are party to routine claims, suits, investigations, audits, and other proceedings arising from the ordinary course of business, including with respect to intellectual property rights, contractual claims, labor and employment matters, regulatory matters, tax matters, unclaimed property matters, compliance matters, and collection matters. In the opinion of management, after consultation with legal counsel, such routine claims and lawsuits are not significant, and we do not expect them to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity.

Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Business Overview

Activision Blizzard, Inc. is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive entertainment content and services. We develop and distribute content and services on video game consoles, personal computers (“PC”s), and mobile devices. We also operate esports leagues and events and create film and television content based on our intellectual property. The terms “Activision Blizzard,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” are used to refer collectively to Activision Blizzard, Inc. and its subsidiaries.

The Company was originally incorporated in California in 1979 and was reincorporated in Delaware in December 1992. In connection with the 2008 business combination by and among the Company (then known as Activision, Inc.), Vivendi S.A, and Vivendi Games, Inc., then an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi S.A., we were renamed Activision Blizzard, Inc.

Our Segments




In 2010, Activision entered into an exclusive relationship with Bungie, Inc. (“Bungie”) to publish games in the Destiny franchise. Effective December 31, 2018, Activision and Bungie mutually agreed to terminate their publishing relationship related to the Destiny franchise. As part of this termination, Activision agreed to transfer its publishing rights for the Destiny franchise to Bungie in exchange for cash and Bungie’s assumption of on-going customer obligations of Activision. Activision no longer has any material rights or obligations related to the Destiny franchise.


Blizzard Entertainment, Inc. (“Blizzard”) is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive software products and entertainment content, particularly for the PC platform. Blizzard primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including subscriptions, full-game, and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Blizzard products. Blizzard also maintains a proprietary online gaming service, Blizzard Battle.net®, which facilitates digital distribution of Blizzard content and selected Activision content, online social connectivity, and the creation of user-generated content. Blizzard also includes the activities of the Overwatch LeagueTM, the first major global professional esports league with city-based teams, and our Major League Gaming (“MLG”) business, which is responsible for various esports events and serves as a multi-platform network for Activision Blizzard esports content.



King Digital Entertainment (“King”) is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive entertainment content and services, particularly for the mobile platform, including for Google’s Android and Apple’s iOS. King also distributes its content and services on the PC platform, primarily via Facebook. King’s games are free to play; however, players can acquire in-game items, either with virtual currency or real currency, and we continue to focus on in-game advertising as a growing source of additional revenue.


Other


•the Activision Blizzard Studios (“Studios”) business, which is devoted to creating original film and television content based on our library of globally recognized intellectual properties, and which, in September 2018, released the third season of the animated TV series Skylanders™ Academy on Netflix; and

•the Activision Blizzard Distribution (“Distribution”) business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistics, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware.

Business Results and Highlights

Financial Results














Since certain of our games are hosted online or include significant online functionality that represents a separate performance obligation, we defer the transaction price allocable to the online functionality from the sale of these games and then recognize the attributable revenues over the relevant estimated service periods, which are generally less than a year. Net revenues and operating income for the three months ended September 30, 2019, include a net effect of $68 million and $53 million, respectively, from the recognition of deferred net revenues and related cost of revenues. Net revenues and operating income for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, include a net effect of $824 million and $629 million, respectively, from the recognition of deferred net revenues and related cost of revenues.

Content Release and Event Highlights

During the three months ended September 30, 2019, Activision released SpyroTM Reignited Trilogy on Nintendo Switch and PC, and Blizzard released World of Warcraft® Classic, a re-creation of the pre-expansion version of the game, and the latest expansions to Hearthstone—Saviors of UldumTM and Tombs of TerrorTM .

Operating Metrics

The following operating metrics are key performance indicators that we use to evaluate our business.

Net bookings and In-game net bookings

We monitor net bookings as a key operating metric in evaluating the performance of our business. Net bookings is the net amount of products and services sold digitally or sold-in physically in the period, and includes license fees, merchandise, and publisher incentives, among others. Net bookings is equal to net revenues excluding the impact from deferrals. In-game net bookings primarily includes the net amount of downloadable content and microtransactions sold during the period, and is equal to in-game net revenues excluding the impact from deferrals.



Net bookings

Q3 2019 vs. Q3 2018



•a decrease in Activision net bookings of $188 million driven by (1) lower net bookings from the Destiny franchise (reflecting our sale of the publishing rights for Destiny to Bungie in December 2018), and (2) lower net bookings from the Call of Duty franchise catalog titles.

YTD Q3 2019 vs. YTD Q3 2018




In-game net bookings

Q3 2019 vs. Q3 2018

The decrease in in-game net bookings for the three months ended September 30, 2019, as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018, was primarily due to a decrease in Blizzard and Activision in-game net bookings of $183 million and $113 million, respectively, due to the same drivers discussed for net bookings above.

YTD Q3 2019 vs. YTD Q3 2018



•a decrease in Activision in-game net bookings of $254 million driven by (1) lower in-game net bookings from the Destiny franchise and (2) lower in-game net bookings from the Call of Duty franchise, primarily driven by catalog titles.

Monthly Active Users

We monitor monthly active users (“MAUs”) as a key measure of the overall size of our user base. MAUs are the number of individuals who accessed a particular game in a given month. We calculate average MAUs in a period by adding the total number of MAUs in each of the months in a given period and dividing that total by the number of months in the period. An individual who accesses two of our games would be counted as two users. In addition, due to technical limitations, for Activision and King, an individual who accesses the same game on two platforms or devices in the relevant period would be counted as two users. For Blizzard, an individual who accesses the same game on two platforms or devices in the relevant period would generally be counted as a single user.



Average MAUs decreased by 11 million, or 3%, for the three months ended September 30, 2019, as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2019, primarily driven by a decrease in average MAUs for King. The decrease in King’s average MAUs is primarily due to decreases from the Candy Crush franchise. The slight increase in Blizzard’s average MAUs is due to an increase in average MAUs for World of Warcraft, largely offset by lower average MAUs for Hearthstone.


•decreases across King’s various franchises, other than Candy Crush, primarily from less engaged users leaving the network, partially offset by an increase in average MAUs for the Candy Crush franchise, primarily driven by the launch of Candy Crush Friends SagaTM in the fourth quarter of 2018;

•lower average MAUs for Activision, primarily due to the absence of Destiny MAUs in our operating metric and lower average MAUs from the Call of Duty franchise; and


Management’s Overview of Business Trends

Interactive Entertainment and Mobile Gaming Growth

Our business participates in the global interactive entertainment industry. Games have become an increasingly popular form of entertainment, and we estimate the total industry has grown, on average, 18% annually from 2015 to 2018. The industry continues to benefit from additional players entering the market as interactive entertainment becomes more commonplace across age groups and as more developing regions gain access to this form of entertainment.


Opportunities to Expand Franchises Outside of Games

Our fans spend significant time investing in our franchises through purchases of our game content, whether through purchases of full games or downloadable content or via microtransactions. Given the passion our players have for our franchises, we believe there are emerging opportunities to drive additional engagement and investment in our franchises outside of games. Our efforts to build these adjacent opportunities are still relatively nascent, but we view them as potentially significant sources of future revenues.

For example, as part of our efforts to take advantage of esports opportunities, we have sold rights for 20 teams that are participating in the Overwatch League, which recently completed its second season. Additionally, we have sold the first 12 teams for the Call of Duty League.

Concentration of Sales Among the Most Popular Franchises

The concentration of retail revenues among key titles has continued as a trend in the overall interactive entertainment industry. According to The NPD Group, the top 10 titles accounted for 38% of the retail sales in the U.S. interactive entertainment industry in 2018. Similarly, a significant portion of our revenues historically has been derived from video games based on a few popular franchises, and these video games have been responsible for a disproportionately high percentage of our profits. For example, the Call of Duty, Candy Crush, and World of Warcraft franchises, collectively, accounted for 58% of our consolidated net revenues—and a significantly higher percentage of our operating income—for 2018.


Overall, we do expect that a limited number of popular franchises will continue to produce a disproportionately high percentage of our, and the industry’s, revenues and profits in the near future. Accordingly, our ability to maintain our top franchises and our ability to successfully compete against our competitors’ top franchises can significantly impact our performance.

Recurring Revenue Business Models

Increased consumer online connectivity has allowed us to offer players new investment opportunities and to shift our business further towards a more consistently recurring and year-round model. Offering downloadable content and microtransactions, in addition to full games, allows our players to access and invest in new content throughout the year. This incremental content not only provides additional high-margin revenues, it can also increase player engagement. Also, mobile games, and free-to-play games more broadly, are generally less seasonal than games developed primarily for the console or PC platforms.

Consolidated Statements of Operations Data




Consolidated Net Revenues




Consolidated Net Revenues 

Q3 2019 vs. Q3 2018 



•a decrease in Activision revenues recognized of $100 million, primarily due to lower revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise (reflecting our sale of the publishing rights for Destiny to Bungie in December 2018).

YTD Q3 2019 vs. YTD Q3 2018




In-game Net Revenues

Q3 2019 vs. Q3 2018 

The decrease in in-game net revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2019, as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018, was primarily due to a decrease in Blizzard and Activision in-game revenues recognized of $121 million and $116 million, respectively, due to the same drivers discussed for consolidated net revenues above.

YTD Q3 2019 vs. YTD Q3 2018



•a decrease in Activision in-game revenues recognized of $219 million, primarily due to lower in-game revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise.

Change in Deferred Revenues Recognized

Q3 2019 vs. Q3 2018


YTD Q3 2019 vs. YTD Q3 2018


Foreign Exchange Impact

Changes in foreign exchange rates had a negative impact of $27 million and $133 million on our consolidated net revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, as compared to the same period in the previous year. The changes are primarily due to changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the euro and the British pound.

Operating Segment Results


Our operating segments are also consistent with our internal organizational structure, the way we assess operating performance and allocate resources, and the availability of separate financial information. We do not aggregate operating segments.










Segment Net Revenues

Activision

Q3 2019 vs. Q3 2018


•lower revenues from the Destiny franchise (reflecting our sale of the publishing rights for Destiny to Bungie in December 2018);

•lower revenues from the Call of Duty franchise catalog titles; and

•lower revenues from Crash Bandicoot™ N. Sane Trilogy, which was released on the Xbox One, PC, and Nintendo Switch in June 2018.


•revenues from Crash Team Racing Nitro-Fueled, which was released in June 2019; and

•higher revenues from the Spyro Reignited Trilogy, which was released on Nintendo Switch in September 2019, after having been released on Playstation 4 and Xbox One in November 2018.

YTD Q3 2019 vs. YTD Q3 2018


•lower revenues from the Destiny franchise;

•lower revenues from Call of Duty franchise catalog titles;


•lower revenues from Crash Bandicoot N. Sane Trilogy.


Blizzard

Q3 2019 vs. Q3 2018




•lower revenues from Overwatch.

The decrease was partially offset by higher revenues from the Overwatch League.

YTD Q3 2019 vs. YTD Q3 2018



•lower revenues from Overwatch; and

•lower revenues from Hearthstone.

King

Q3 2019 vs. Q3 2018

King’s net revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2019, were roughly equal to net revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2018, as lower in-game revenues from player purchases were largely offset by an increase in advertising revenues.

YTD Q3 2019 vs. YTD Q3 2018

King’s net revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, were roughly equal to net revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 due to the same driver and offsetting factor discussed above.

Segment Income from Operations

Activision

Q3 2019 vs. Q3 2018

The decrease in Activision’s operating income for the three months ended September 30, 2019, as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018, was primarily due to lower revenues, as discussed above. The decrease was partially offset by lower operating costs associated with the Destiny franchise (reflecting our sale of the publishing rights for Destiny to Bungie in December 2018).

YTD Q3 2019 vs. YTD Q3 2018


•lower revenues, as discussed above; and

•an increase in bad debt provisions.


Blizzard

Q3 2019 vs. Q3 2018


•lower spending on sales and marketing, primarily driven by lower marketing for esports initiatives and World of Warcraft;


•higher capitalization of software development costs due to the timing of game development cycles.

YTD Q3 2019 vs. YTD Q3 2018



•lower personnel costs; 


•lower service provider fees, such as digital storefront fees (e.g. fees retained by Apple and Google for our sales on their platforms), payment processor fees, and server bandwidth fees.

King

Q3 2019 vs. Q3 2018


•lower service provider fees, primarily digital storefront fees (e.g. fees retained by Apple and Google for our sales on their platforms); and

•lower product development costs. 

YTD Q3 2019 vs. YTD Q3 2018


•lower revenues, as discussed above; and 

•higher sales and marketing costs driven by the Candy Crush franchise, in part due to the launch of Candy Crush Friends Saga in October 2018. 


•lower service provider fees, such as digital storefront fees (e.g. fees retained by Apple and Google for our sales on their platforms), payment processor fees, and server bandwidth fees; and

•lower personnel costs.

Foreign Exchange Impact

Changes in foreign exchange rates had a negative impact of $20 million and $92 million on reportable segment net revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, as compared to the same periods in the previous year. The changes are primarily due to changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the euro and the British pound.

Consolidated Results

Net Revenues by Distribution Channel





Digital Online Channel Net Revenues

Q3 2019 vs. Q3 2018


•lower revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise (reflecting our sale of the publishing rights for Destiny to Bungie in December 2018); and

•lower revenues recognized from World of Warcraft.

YTD Q3 2019 vs. YTD Q3 2018


•lower revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise; and

•lower revenues recognized from Overwatch.

Retail Channel Net Revenues

Q3 2019 vs. Q3 2018


•revenues recognized from Crash Team Racing Nitro-Fueled, which was released in June 2019; and

•higher revenues from the Spyro Reignited Trilogy, which was released on Nintendo Switch in September 2019, after having been released on Playstation 4 and Xbox One in November 2018.

YTD Q3 2019 vs. YTD Q3 2018



•lower revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise (reflecting our sale of the publishing rights for Destiny to Bungie in December 2018); and

•lower revenues from Crash Bandicoot N. Sane Trilogy, which was released on the Xbox One, PC, and Nintendo Switch in June 2018.



•revenues recognized from Crash Team Racing Nitro-Fueled.

Net Revenues by Geographic Region




Americas

Q3 2019 vs. Q3 2018

The decrease in net revenues from the Americas region for the three months ended September 30, 2019, as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018, was primarily due to lower revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise (reflecting our sale of the publishing rights for Destiny to Bungie in December 2018).

YTD Q3 2019 vs. YTD Q3 2018

The decrease in net revenues from the Americas region for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2018, was primarily due to lower revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise.

EMEA

Q3 2019 vs. Q3 2018


•lower revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise; and

•lower revenues recognized from World of Warcraft.

YTD Q3 2019 vs. YTD Q3 2018


•lower revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise; and 


Asia Pacific

Q3 2019 vs. Q3 2018

The decrease in net revenues from the Asia Pacific region for the three months ended September 30, 2019, as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018, was primarily due to lower revenues recognized from Hearthstone.

YTD Q3 2019 vs. YTD Q3 2018

The decrease in net revenues from the Asia Pacific region for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2018, was primarily due to lower revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise.

Net Revenues by Platform





Console

Q3 2019 vs. Q3 2018


•lower revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise (reflecting our sale of the publishing rights for Destiny to Bungie in December 2018);

•lower revenues recognized from the Call of Duty franchise catalog titles;

•lower revenues recognized from Overwatch;


•lower revenues from Crash Bandicoot N. Sane Trilogy which was released on the Xbox One, PC, and Nintendo Switch in June 2018.


•revenues recognized from Crash Team Racing Nitro-Fueled, which was released in June 2019; and 

•higher revenues from the Spyro Reignited Trilogy, which was released on Nintendo Switch in September 2019, after having been released on Playstation 4 and Xbox One in November 2018.

YTD Q3 2019 vs. YTD Q3 2018


•lower revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise;

•lower revenues recognized from Call of Duty franchise catalog titles; and



PC

Q3 2019 vs. Q3 2018


•lower revenues recognized from World of Warcraft;

•lower revenues recognized from Hearthstone;

•lower revenues recognized from Overwatch; and

•lower revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise.

YTD Q3 2019 vs. YTD Q3 2018


•lower revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise;

•lower revenues recognized from Overwatch; and

•lower revenues recognized from Hearthstone.

Mobile and Ancillary

Q3 2019 vs. Q3 2018

Net revenues from mobile and ancillary for the three months ended September 30, 2019, were roughly flat as compared to net revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2018.

YTD Q3 2019 vs. YTD Q3 2018

Net revenues from mobile and ancillary for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, were roughly flat as compared to net revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2018.

Costs and Expenses

Cost of Revenues




Q3 2019 vs. Q3 2018

The increase in product costs for the three months ended September 30, 2019, as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018, was in line with the increase in retail revenues.

The decrease in software royalties, amortization, and intellectual property licenses related to product sales for the three months ended September 30, 2019, as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018, was primarily due to a decrease of $8 million in software amortization and royalties from Activision, driven by the Destiny franchise (reflecting our sale of the publishing rights for Destiny to Bungie in December 2018).

YTD Q3 2019 vs. YTD Q3 2018

The decrease in product costs for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2018, was in line with the decrease in product sales.






Q3 2019 vs. Q3 2018

The decrease in game operations and distribution costs for the three months ended September 30, 2019, as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018, was primarily due to a decrease of $18 million in service provider fees such as digital storefront fees (e.g. fees retained by Apple and Google for our sales on their platforms), payment processor fees, and server bandwidth fees.


•a decrease of $34 million in amortization of internally-developed franchise intangible assets acquired as part of our acquisition of King; 

•lower software amortization and royalties from Activision of $14 million, driven by the Destiny franchise; and

•lower amortization of capitalized film costs of $12 million given the release of the third season of the animated TV series, Skylanders Academy, in September 2018, with no comparable release in 2019.

YTD Q3 2019 vs. YTD Q3 2018

The decrease in game operations and distribution costs for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2018, was primarily due to a decrease of $50 million in service provider fees such as digital storefront fees (e.g. fees retained by Apple and Google for our sales on their platforms), payment processor fees, and server bandwidth fees.


•a decrease of $83 million in amortization of internally-developed franchise intangible assets acquired as part of our acquisition of King; 

•lower software amortization and royalties from Activision of $22 million, driven by the Destiny franchise; and 

•lower amortization of capitalized film costs of $12 million given the release of the third season of the animated TV series, Skylanders Academy, in September 2018, with no comparable release in 2019.

Product Development (amounts in millions) 


Q3 2019 vs. Q3 2018


•lower product development costs for existing and upcoming title releases of $33 million, primarily due to lower personnel costs; and

•lower product development costs from the Destiny franchise (reflecting our sale of the publishing rights for Destiny to Bungie in December 2018).

YTD Q3 2019 vs. YTD Q3 2018


•lower product development costs for existing and upcoming title releases of $66 million, primarily due to lower personnel costs; and

•lower product development costs from the Destiny franchise.

Sales and Marketing (amounts in millions)


Q3 2019 vs. Q3 2018

The decrease in sales and marketing expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2019, as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018, was primarily due to a decrease of $81 million in marketing spending and personnel costs, primarily associated with lower marketing costs for the Destiny, World of Warcraft, and Call of Duty franchises, and esports initiatives.

YTD Q3 2019 vs. YTD Q3 2018



•a decrease of $44 million in amortization of the customer base intangible asset acquired as part of our acquisition of King, as the asset was fully amortized during the first quarter of 2018.

General and Administrative (amounts in millions)


Q3 2019 vs. Q3 2018

The decrease in general and administrative expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2019, as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018, was primarily due to a $22 million decrease in personnel costs.

YTD Q3 2019 vs. YTD Q3 2018

The decrease in general and administrative expenses for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2018, was primarily due to a $69 million decrease in personnel costs.

Restructuring and related costs (amounts in millions)


On February 12, 2019, the Company committed to a Board-authorized restructuring plan under which the Company aims to refocus its resources on its largest opportunities and remove unnecessary levels of complexity and duplication from certain parts of the business. Since the roll out of the plan, we have been, and will continue focusing on these goals. The restructuring and related costs incurred during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, relate primarily to severance costs, write-downs of lease facility assets, and the write-downs of other assets that will no longer be used. Refer to Note 14 of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion.

Interest and Other Expense (Income), Net (amounts in millions)


Q3 2019 vs. Q3 2018

The decrease in interest and other expense (income), net, for the three months ended September 30, 2019, as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018, was primarily due to an $11 million decrease in interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs associated with our debt obligations, due to a decrease in our total debt outstanding as a result of our debt redemptions and repayment activities during 2018.

YTD Q3 2019 vs. YTD Q3 2018


•a $49 million decrease in interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs associated with our debt obligations, reflecting a decrease in our total debt outstanding as a result of our debt redemptions and repayment activities during 2018; 

•a $38 million gain recognized as a result of adjusting a cost-method equity investment to fair value, with no comparable activity in the prior period (refer to Note 8 of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q); and

•an $11 million increase in interest income due to our cash and cash equivalent balances earning interest at higher rates, along with an overall higher cash balance, in 2019 as compared to 2018.

Income Tax Expense (amounts in millions)


The income tax expense of $45 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019, reflects an effective tax rate of 18%, which is higher than the effective tax rate of (23)% for the three months ended September 30, 2018. The increase is primarily due to a discrete tax benefit recognized in the prior year in connection with adjustments made to the provisional amounts initially recorded in connection with tax reform legislation known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act enacted in December 22, 2017 (the “U.S. Tax Reform Act”), lower excess tax benefits from share-based payments in the current year, and an increase in U.S. tax on foreign earnings.


The effective tax rate of 18% for both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, is lower than the U.S. statutory rate of 21%, primarily due to foreign earnings taxed at lower statutory rates as compared to domestic earnings, which is partially offset by U.S. tax on foreign earnings, and the recognition of federal research and development credit.


Further information about our income taxes is provided in Note 16 of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

We believe our ability to generate cash flows from operating activities is one of our fundamental financial strengths. In the near term, we expect our business and financial condition to remain strong and to continue to generate significant operating cash flows, which, we believe, in combination with our existing balance of cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments of $4.9 billion, our access to capital, and the availability of our $1.5 billion revolving credit facility, will be sufficient to finance our operational and financing requirements for the next 12 months. Our primary sources of liquidity, which are available to us to fund cash outflows such as potential dividend payments or share repurchases, and scheduled debt maturities, include our cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, and cash flows provided by operating activities.

As of September 30, 2019, the amount of cash and cash equivalents held outside of the U.S. by our foreign subsidiaries was $2.3 billion, as compared to $1.4 billion as of December 31, 2018. These cash balances are generally available for use in the U.S., subject in some cases to certain restrictions.

Our cash provided from operating activities is somewhat impacted by seasonality. Working capital needs are impacted by weekly sales, which are generally highest in the fourth quarter due to seasonal and holiday-related sales patterns. We consider, on a continuing basis, various transactions to increase shareholder value and enhance our business results, including acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, share repurchases, and other structural changes. These transactions may result in future cash proceeds or payments.

Sources of Liquidity (amounts in millions)



Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities


Net cash provided by operating activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, was $913 million, as compared to $791 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018. The increase was primarily due to changes in our working capital resulting from the timing of collections and payments and lower cash spent to support the Destiny franchise (reflecting our sale of the publishing rights for Destiny to Bungie in December 2018). This increase was partially offset by lower net income and a decrease in non-cash adjustments to net income, primarily due to lower amortization on intangible assets related to King and lower amortization of capitalized software development costs and intellectual property licenses for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2018.

Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Investing Activities 

The primary drivers of net cash flows associated with investing activities typically include capital expenditures, purchases and sales of investments, changes in restricted cash balances, and cash used for acquisitions.

Net cash provided by investing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, was $79 million, as compared to net cash used in investing activities of $160 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018. The increase was primarily due to $153 million of cash proceeds from the maturities of available-for-sale investments, as compared to purchases of available-for-sale investments of $59 million in the prior-year period. Additionally, capital expenditures of $79 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, were lower than the capital expenditures of $97 million for the prior-year period.

Net Cash Used in Financing Activities 

The primary drivers of net cash flows associated with financing activities typically include the proceeds from, and repayments of, our long-term debt and transactions involving our common stock, including the issuance of shares of common stock to employees upon the exercise of stock options, as well as the payment of dividends.

Net cash used in financing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, was $251 million, as compared to $2.0 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2018. The decrease was primarily due to debt repayments, inclusive of premium payments, of $1.8 billion during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, with no comparable repayment activity in the nine months ended September 30, 2019. The Company paid dividends of $283 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, as compared to $259 million during the prior-year period.

Effect of Foreign Exchange Rate Changes

Changes in foreign exchange rates had a negative impact of $24 million on our cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, as compared to a negative impact of $15 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018. The change was primarily due to changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the euro and the British pound.

Debt

At both September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, our total outstanding debt was $2.7 billion, bearing interest at a weighted average rate of 3.18%.




Refer to Note 11 of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further disclosures regarding our debt obligations.

Dividends

On February 12, 2019, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.37 per common share. On May 9, 2019, we made an aggregate cash dividend payment of $283 million to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 28, 2019.

Capital Expenditures

For the year ending December 31, 2019, we anticipate total capital expenditures of approximately $130 million, primarily for leasehold improvements, computer hardware, and software purchases. During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, capital expenditures were $79 million.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

At each of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, Activision Blizzard had no significant relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial parties, often referred to as “structured finance” or “special purpose” entities, established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes, that have or are reasonably likely to have a material current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates


•Revenue Recognition;

•Income Taxes;

•Allowances for Returns and Price Protection;

•Software Development Costs;

•Fair Value Estimates (including Business Combinations and Assessment of Impairment of Assets); and

•Share-Based Payments.

During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, there were no significant changes to the above critical accounting policies and estimates. Refer to Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, for a more complete discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates.

Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements

Below are recently issued accounting pronouncements that were most significant to our accounting policy activities. For a detailed discussion of all relevant recently issued accounting pronouncements, see Note 3 of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.

Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements

Leases

As noted in Note 2 of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, we adopted the new lease accounting standard effective January 1, 2019. We elected to apply an optional adoption method, which uses the effective date as the initial date of application on transition with no retrospective adjustments to prior periods. Additionally, we elected to apply the package of transition practical expedients which permitted us to, among other things, (1) not reassess if existing contracts contained leases under the new lease accounting standard, and (2) carry forward our historical lease classifications.

For additional discussion regarding the impact of our adoption of the new lease accounting standard to our condensed consolidated balance sheet, see Note 3 of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.

Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

Market risk is the potential loss arising from fluctuations in market rates and prices. Our market risk exposures primarily include fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk

We transact business in many different foreign currencies and may be exposed to financial market risk resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Revenues and related expenses generated from our international operations are generally denominated in their respective local currencies. Primary currencies include euros, British pounds, Australian dollars, South Korean won, Chinese yuan, and Swedish krona. To the extent the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency-denominated transactions will result in reduced revenues, operating expenses, net income, and cash flows from our international operations. Similarly, our revenues, operating expenses, net income, and cash flows will increase for our international operations if the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies. Since we have significant international sales, but incur the majority of our costs in the United States, the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, particularly the strengthening of the U.S. dollar, may have an asymmetric and disproportional impact on our business. We monitor currency volatility throughout the year.

To mitigate our foreign currency risk resulting from our foreign currency-denominated monetary assets, liabilities, and earnings and our foreign currency risk related to functional currency-equivalent cash flows resulting from our intercompany transactions, we periodically enter into currency derivative contracts, principally forward contracts. These forward contracts generally have a maturity of less than one year. The counterparties for our currency derivative contracts are large and reputable commercial or investment banks.

The fair values of our foreign currency contracts are estimated based on the prevailing exchange rates of the various hedged currencies as of the end of the period.

We do not hold or purchase any foreign currency forward contracts for trading or speculative purposes.

Foreign Currency Forward Contracts Designated as Hedges (“Cash Flow Hedges”)



At September 30, 2019, our Cash Flow Hedges have remaining maturities of three months or less. Additionally, $2 million of net realized but unrecognized gains are recorded within “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)” at September 30, 2019 for Cash Flow Hedges that had settled but were deferred and will be amortized into earnings, along with the associated hedged revenues. Such amounts will be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months.



Foreign Currency Forward Contracts Not Designated as Hedges



For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, pre-tax net gains (losses) associated with these forward contracts were recorded in “General and administrative expenses” and were not material.

In the absence of hedging activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, a hypothetical adverse foreign currency exchange rate movement of 10% would have resulted in a theoretical decline of our net income of approximately $78 million. This sensitivity analysis assumes a parallel adverse shift of all foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar; however, all foreign currency exchange rates do not always move in this manner and actual results may differ materially.

Interest Rate Risk

Our exposure to market rate risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio, as our outstanding debt is all at fixed rates. Our investment portfolio consists primarily of money market funds and government securities with high credit quality and short average maturities. Because short-term securities mature relatively quickly and must be reinvested at the then-current market rates, interest income on a portfolio consisting of cash, cash equivalents, or short-term securities is more subject to market fluctuations than a portfolio of longer-term securities. Conversely, the fair value of such a portfolio is less sensitive to market fluctuations than a portfolio of longer-term securities. At September 30, 2019, our cash and cash equivalents were comprised primarily of money market funds.

The Company has determined that, based on the composition of our investment portfolio as of September 30, 2019, there was no material interest rate risk exposure to the Company’s consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity as of that date.

Item 4. Controls and Procedures

Definition and Limitations of Disclosure Controls and Procedures


Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Our management, with the participation of our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures at September 30, 2019, the end of the period covered by this report. Based on this evaluation, the principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that, at September 30, 2019, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is (i) recorded, processed, summarized, and reported on a timely basis, and (ii) accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures.

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

Our management, with the participation of our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, has evaluated any changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2019. Based on this evaluation, the principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that, at September 30, 2019, there have not been any changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the most recent fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

PART II. OTHER INFORMATION

Item 1. Legal Proceedings

We are party to routine claims, suits, investigations, audits, and other proceedings arising from the ordinary course of business, including with respect to intellectual property rights, contractual claims, labor and employment matters, regulatory matters, tax matters, unclaimed property matters, compliance matters, and collection matters. In the opinion of management, after consultation with legal counsel, such routine claims and lawsuits are not significant, and we do not expect them to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity.

Item 1A. Risk Factors

Various risks associated with our business are described in Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.

Item 6. Exhibits

The exhibits listed on the accompanying Exhibit Index are hereby incorporated by reference into this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.

EXHIBIT INDEX


SIGNATURE

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


ACTIVISION BLIZZARD, INC.


Dennis Durkin

Chief Financial Officer, Principal Financial Officer, and

Principal Accounting Officer of Activision Blizzard, Inc.

