

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION





QUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d)

OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the quarterly period ended September 29, 2019 

Commission File No. 001-12561 


BELDEN INC. 




1 North Brentwood Boulevard 


St. Louis, Missouri 63105 



Registrant’s telephone number, including area code




Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company,” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 






As of October 31, 2019, the Registrant had 45,457,559 outstanding shares of common stock.

PART IFINANCIAL INFORMATION

Item 1. Financial Statements

BELDEN INC.

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS


The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.


BELDEN INC.

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.


BELDEN INC.

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENTS



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.


BELDEN INC.

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY STATEMENTS






The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.


BELDEN INC.

NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



Basis of Presentation

The accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements include Belden Inc. and all of its subsidiaries (the Company, us, we, or our). We eliminate all significant affiliate accounts and transactions in consolidation.


•Are prepared from the books and records without audit, and

•Are prepared in accordance with the instructions for Form 10-Q and do not include all of the information required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States for complete statements, but

•Include all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the financial statements.

These Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data contained in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Business Description

We are a global supplier of specialty networking solutions built around two global business platforms - Enterprise Solutions and Industrial Solutions. Our comprehensive portfolio of solutions enables customers to transmit and secure data, sound, and video for mission critical applications across complex enterprise and industrial environments.

Reporting Periods

Our fiscal year and fiscal fourth quarter both end on December 31. Our fiscal first quarter ends on the Sunday falling closest to 91 days after December 31, which was March 31, 2019, the 90th day of our fiscal year 2019. Our fiscal second and third quarters each have 91 days. The nine months ended September 29, 2019 and September 30, 2018 included 272 and 273 days, respectively. 

Fair Value Measurement


•Level 1 – Quoted prices in active markets that are unadjusted and accessible at the measurement date for identical, unrestricted assets or liabilities;

•Level 2 – Quoted prices for identical assets and liabilities in markets that are not active, quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, or financial instruments for which significant inputs are observable, either directly or indirectly; and

•Level 3 – Prices or valuations that require inputs that are both significant to the fair value measurement and unobservable. 

As of and during the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019 and September 30, 2018, we utilized Level 1 inputs to determine the fair value of cash equivalents, and we utilized Level 2 and Level 3 inputs to determine the fair value of net assets acquired in business combinations (see Note 3). We did not have any transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements during the nine months ended September 29, 2019 and September 30, 2018.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

We classify cash on hand and deposits in banks, including commercial paper, money market accounts, and other investments with an original maturity of three months or less, that we hold from time to time, as cash and cash equivalents. We periodically have cash equivalents consisting of short-term money market funds and other investments. As of September 29, 2019, we did not have any such cash equivalents on hand. The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve our capital for the purpose of funding operations. We do not enter into investments for trading or speculative purposes. 


Contingent Liabilities

We have established liabilities for environmental and legal contingencies that are probable of occurrence and reasonably estimable, the amounts of which are currently not material. We accrue environmental remediation costs based on estimates of known environmental remediation exposures developed in consultation with our environmental consultants and legal counsel. We are, from time to time, subject to routine litigation incidental to our business. These lawsuits primarily involve claims for damages arising out of the use of our products, allegations of patent or trademark infringement, and litigation and administrative proceedings involving employment matters and commercial disputes. Based on facts currently available, we believe the disposition of the claims that are pending or asserted will not have a materially adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flow.

As of September 29, 2019, we were party to standby letters of credit, bank guaranties, and surety bonds totaling $9.7 million, $3.9 million, and $3.3 million, respectively.

Revenue Recognition


Subsequent Events

We evaluated subsequent events after the balance sheet date through the financial statement issuance date for appropriate accounting and disclosure. See Note 17.

Current-Year Adoption of Accounting Pronouncements



In February 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-02 (“ASU 2018-02”), Reclassification of Certain Tax Effects from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income. ASU 2018-02 provides an option to allow reclassification from accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings for stranded tax effects resulting from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. The new guidance is effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2018. We adopted ASU 2018-02 effective January 1, 2019, and elected to not reclassify the income tax effects of the Act from accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings. The adoption had no impact on our results of operations. 


In June 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-07 (“ASU 2018-07”), Improvements to Nonemployee Share-Based Payment Accounting. The amendments in ASU 2018-07 expand the scope of Topic 718, Compensation - Stock Compensation, to include share-based payment transactions for acquiring goods and services from non-employees, and provide that non-employee share-based payment awards be measured at their grant-date fair value and the probability of satisfying performance conditions be taken into account when non-employee share-based payment awards contain such conditions. The standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018. We adopted ASU 2018-07 effective January 1, 2019. The adoption had no impact on our results of operations. 

In August 2018, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) adopted the final rule under SEC Release No. 33-10532, Disclosure Update and Simplification, amending certain disclosure requirements that were redundant, duplicative, overlapping, outdated or superseded. Additionally, the amendments expanded the disclosure requirements on the analysis of stockholders' equity for interim financial statements. Under the amendments, an analysis of changes in each caption of stockholders' equity presented in the balance sheet must be provided in a note or separate statement. The analysis should present a reconciliation of the beginning balance to the ending balance of each period presented. This final rule was effective on November 5, 2018. We implemented SEC Release No. 33-10532 effective January 1, 2019, which had no impact on our results of operations. 

Pending Adoption of Recent Accounting Pronouncements

In June 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-13 (“ASU 2016-13”), Financial Instruments - Credit Losses. The main provisions of ASU 2016-13 provide financial statement users with more decision-useful information about the expected credit losses on financial instruments and other commitments to extend credit held by a reporting entity at each reporting date, and require a financial asset (or a group of financial assets) measured at amortized cost basis to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected. The new standard will be effective for us beginning January 1, 2020. Early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact this update will have on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.


Revenues are recognized when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers and in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. Taxes collected from customers and remitted to governmental authorities are not included in our revenues. The following tables present our revenues disaggregated by major product category. 



The following tables present our revenues disaggregated by geography, based on the location of the customer purchasing the product.


The following tables present our revenues disaggregated by products, including software products, and support and services.


We generate revenues primarily by selling products that provide secure and reliable transmission of data, sound, and video for mission critical applications. We also generate revenues from providing support and professional services. We sell our products to distributors, end-users, installers, and directly to original equipment manufacturers. At times, we enter into arrangements that involve the delivery of multiple performance obligations. For these arrangements, revenue is allocated to each performance obligation based on its relative selling price and recognized when or as each performance obligation is satisfied. Most of our performance obligations related to the sale of products are satisfied at a point in time when control of the product is transferred based on the shipping terms of the arrangement. Generally, we determine relative selling price using the prices charged to customers on a standalone basis.


The amount of consideration we receive and revenue we recognize varies due to rebates, returns, and price adjustments. We estimate the expected rebates, returns, and price adjustments based on an analysis of historical experience, anticipated sales demand, and trends in product pricing. We adjust our estimate of revenue at the earlier of when the most likely amount of consideration we expect to receive changes or when the consideration becomes fixed. Adjustments to revenue for performance obligations satisfied in prior periods were not significant during the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019 and September 30, 2018. 



Depending on the terms of an arrangement, we may defer the recognition of some or all of the consideration received because we have to satisfy a future obligation. Consideration allocated to support services under a support and maintenance contract is typically paid in advance and recognized ratably over the term of the service. Consideration allocated to professional services is typically recognized when or as the services are performed depending on the terms of the arrangement. As of September 29, 2019, total deferred revenue was $99.2 million, and of this amount, $86.5 million is expected to be recognized within the next twelve months, and the remaining $12.7 million is long-term and is expected to be recognized over a period greater than twelve months.



We expense sales commissions as incurred when the duration of the related revenue arrangement is one year or less. We capitalize sales commissions in other current and long-lived assets on our balance sheet when the original duration of the related revenue arrangement is longer than one year, and we amortize it over the related revenue arrangement period. 




Opterna International Corp.

We acquired 100% of the shares of Opterna International Corp. (Opterna) on April 15, 2019 for a preliminary purchase price, net of cash acquired, of $51.7 million. Of the $51.7 million purchase price, $45.5 million and $0.4 million was paid on April 15, 2019 and September 25, 2019, respectively, with cash on hand. The acquisition included a potential earnout, which is based upon future Opterna financial targets through April 15, 2021. The maximum earnout consideration is $25.0 million, but based upon a third party valuation specialist using certain assumptions in a discounted cash flow model, the estimated fair value of the earnout included 




The above purchase price allocation is preliminary, and is subject to revision as additional information about the fair value of individual assets and liabilities becomes available. The preliminary measurement of receivables, inventories, intangible assets, goodwill, deferred income taxes, other assets and liabilities, and noncontrolling interests are subject to change. A change in the estimated fair value of the net assets acquired or noncontrolling interests will change the amount of the purchase price allocable to goodwill.

During the third quarter 2019, we recorded measurement-period adjustments that decreased goodwill by approximately $9.4 million primarily for changes in the fair value of the earnout. The impact of these adjustments to the consolidated statement of operations was immaterial. 

A single estimate of fair value results from a complex series of judgments about future events and uncertainties and relies heavily on estimates and assumptions. The judgments we have used in estimating the preliminary fair values assigned to each class of acquired assets and assumed liabilities could materially affect the results of our operations.

The preliminary fair value of acquired receivables is $5.3 million, which is equivalent to its gross contractual amount. 

For purposes of the above allocation, we based our preliminary estimate of the fair values for the acquired inventory, intangible assets, and noncontrolling interests on valuation studies performed by a third party valuation firm. We have estimated a preliminary fair value adjustment for inventories based on the estimated selling price of the work-in-process and finished goods acquired at the closing date less the sum of the costs to complete the work-in-process, the costs of disposal, and a reasonable profit allowance for our post acquisition selling efforts. We used various valuation methods including discounted cash flows, lost income, excess earnings, and relief from royalty to estimate the preliminary fair value of the identifiable intangible assets (Level 3 valuation). 


Our preliminary estimate of the fair values for the noncontrolling interests were based on the comparable EBITDA multiple valuation technique (Level 3 valuation).



The amortizable intangible assets reflected in the table above were determined by us to have finite lives. The useful life for the developed technology intangible asset was based on the estimated time that the technology provides us with a competitive advantage and thus approximates the period and pattern of consumption of the intangible asset. The useful life for the customer relationship intangible asset was based on our forecasts of estimated sales from recurring customers. The useful life of the backlog intangible asset was based on our estimate of when the ordered items would ship and control of the items transfers. The useful life for the trademarks was based on the period of time we expect to continue to go to market using the trademarks. 

Our consolidated revenues for the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019 included $9.1 million and $17.9 million, respectively, from Opterna. Our consolidated loss before taxes for the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019 included $(0.2) million and $(0.3) million, respectively, from Opterna. For the three months ended September 29, 2019, the loss before taxes included $3.1 million of severance and other restructuring costs, $1.4 million of amortization of intangible assets, and $(0.1) million of cost of sales related to the adjustment of acquired inventory to fair value. For the nine months ended September 29, 2019, the loss before taxes included $5.6 million of severance and other restructuring costs, $2.3 million of amortization of intangible assets, and $0.5 million of cost of sales related to the adjustment of acquired inventory to fair value. Our consolidated loss for the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019 included $0.0 million and $0.1 million, respectively, of net income attributable to noncontrolling interests of Opterna. 

The following table illustrates the unaudited pro forma effect on operating results as if the Opterna acquisition had been completed as of January 1, 2018.



The above unaudited pro forma financial information is presented for informational purposes only and does not purport to represent what our results of operations would have been had we completed the acquisition on the date assumed, nor is it necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected in future periods. Pro forma adjustments exclude cost savings from any synergies resulting from the acquisition.

FutureLink

We acquired the FutureLink product line and related assets from Suttle, Inc. on April 5, 2019 for a purchase price of $5.0 million, which was funded with cash on hand. The acquisition of FutureLink allows us to offer a more complete set of fiber product offerings. The results from the acquisition of FutureLink have been included in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements from April 5, 2019, and are reported within the Enterprise Solutions segment. The acquisition of FutureLink was not material to our financial position or results of operations. 

Net-Tech Technology, Inc.

We acquired 100% of the shares of Net-Tech Technology, Inc. (NT2) on April 25, 2018 for a purchase price of $8.5 million, which was funded with cash on hand. NT2 is an integrator of optical passive components and network optimization products used within broadband network applications where optical backhaul is used. NT2 is located in the United States. The results of NT2 have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements from April 25, 2018, and are reported within the Enterprise Solutions segment. The NT2 acquisition was not material to our financial position or results of operations. 

Snell Advanced Media




During 2019, we did not record any significant measurement-period adjustments.

A single estimate of fair value results from a complex series of judgments about future events and uncertainties and relies heavily on estimates and assumptions. The judgments we have used in estimating the fair values assigned to each class of acquired assets and assumed liabilities could materially affect the results of our operations.

The fair value of acquired receivables is $16.6 million, which is equivalent to its gross contractual amount. 

For purposes of the above allocation, we based our estimate of the fair values for the acquired inventory; property, plant, and equipment; intangible assets; and deferred revenue on valuation studies performed by a third party valuation firm. We have estimated a fair value adjustment for inventories based on the estimated selling price of the work-in-process and finished goods acquired at the closing date less the sum of the costs to complete the work-in-process, the costs of disposal, and a reasonable profit allowance for our post acquisition selling efforts. To determine the value of the acquired property, plant, and equipment, we used various valuation methods, including both the market approach, which considers sales prices of similar assets in similar conditions (Level 2 valuation), and the cost approach, which considers the cost to replace the asset adjusted for depreciation (Level 3 valuation). We used various valuation methods including discounted cash flows, lost income, excess earnings, and relief from royalty to estimate the fair value of the identifiable intangible assets and deferred revenue (Level 3 valuation). 



The amortizable intangible assets reflected in the table above were determined by us to have finite lives. The useful life for the developed technology intangible asset was based on the estimated time that the technology provides us with a competitive advantage and thus approximates the period and pattern of consumption of the intangible asset. The useful life for the customer relationship intangible asset was based on our forecasts of estimated sales from recurring customers. The useful life of the backlog intangible asset was based on our estimate of when the ordered items would ship. The useful life for the trademarks was based on the period of time we expect to continue to go to market using the trademarks. 

SAM is included in our Grass Valley reporting unit, and as discussed further in Note 8, during the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019, we recognized a total goodwill and other asset impairment charge of $342.1 million for the Grass Valley reporting unit. 

Our consolidated revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 included an estimated $25.3 million and $77.2 million, respectively, from SAM. Due to the integration of SAM into our existing business, we are unable to reasonably estimate the amount of income before taxes from SAM included in our consolidated financial statements. Our consolidated income before 


taxes for the three months ended September 30, 2018 included $7.1 million of severance and other restructuring costs, $3.7 million of amortization of intangible assets, and $0.6 million of cost of sales related to the adjustment of acquired inventory to fair value from SAM. Our consolidated income before taxes for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 included $36.6 million of severance and other restructuring costs, $8.7 million of amortization of intangible assets, and $1.8 million of cost of sales related to the adjustment of acquired inventory to fair value from SAM.

The following table illustrates the unaudited pro forma effect on operating results as if the SAM acquisition had been completed as of January 1, 2017.


The above unaudited pro forma financial information is presented for informational purposes only and does not purport to represent what our results of operations would have been had we completed the acquisition on the date assumed, nor is it necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected in future periods. Pro forma adjustments exclude cost savings from any synergies resulting from the acquisition.



The key measures of segment profit or loss are Segment Revenues and Segment EBITDA. Segment Revenues represent non-affiliate revenues and include revenues that would have otherwise been recorded by acquired businesses as independent entities but were not recognized in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income due to the effects of purchase accounting and the associated write-down of acquired deferred revenue to fair value. Segment EBITDA excludes certain items, including depreciation expense; amortization of intangibles; asset impairment; severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs; purchase accounting effects related to acquisitions, such as the adjustment of acquired inventory and deferred revenue to fair value; and other costs. We allocate corporate expenses to the segments for purposes of measuring Segment EBITDA. Corporate expenses are allocated on the basis of each segment’s relative EBITDA prior to the allocation.

Our measure of segment assets does not include cash, goodwill, intangible assets, deferred tax assets, or corporate assets. All goodwill is allocated to reporting units of our segments for purposes of impairment testing. 




The following table is a reconciliation of the total of the reportable segments’ Revenues and EBITDA to consolidated revenues and consolidated income before taxes, respectively. 










For the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019, diluted weighted average shares outstanding do not include outstanding equity awards of 1.4 million and 1.2 million, respectively, because to do so would have been anti-dilutive. In addition, for both the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019, diluted weighted average shares outstanding do not include outstanding equity awards of 0.3 million because the related performance conditions have not been satisfied. Furthermore, for the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019, diluted weighted average shares outstanding do not include the weighted average impact of 1.1 million and 4.9 million shares, respectively, related to converting preferred shares into common shares because deducting the preferred stock dividends from net income was more dilutive.

For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, diluted weighted average shares outstanding do not include outstanding equity awards of 0.9 million and 0.8 million, respectively, because to do so would have been anti-dilutive. In addition, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, diluted weighted average shares outstanding do not include outstanding equity awards of 0.3 million and 0.2 million, respectively, because the related performance conditions have not been satisfied. Furthermore, for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, diluted weighted average shares outstanding do not include the impact of preferred shares that were converted into 6.9 million common shares, because deducting the preferred stock dividends from net income was more dilutive. 

For purposes of calculating basic earnings per share, unvested restricted stock units are not included in the calculation of basic weighted average shares outstanding until all necessary conditions have been satisfied and issuance of the shares underlying the restricted stock units is no longer contingent. Necessary conditions are not satisfied until the vesting date, at which time holders of our restricted stock units receive shares of our common stock.

For purposes of calculating diluted earnings per share, unvested restricted stock units are included to the extent that they are dilutive. In determining whether unvested restricted stock units are dilutive, each issuance of restricted stock units is considered separately.

Once a restricted stock unit has vested, it is included in the calculation of both basic and diluted weighted average shares outstanding.






We have operating and finance leases for properties, including manufacturing facilities, warehouses, and office space; as well as vehicles and certain equipment. We make certain judgments in determining whether a contract contains a lease in accordance with ASU 2016-02. Our leases have remaining lease terms of less than 1 year to 16 years, some of which include options to extend the lease for a period of up to 15 years and some include options to terminate the leases within 1 year. We do not assume renewals in our determination of the lease term unless the renewals are deemed to be reasonably certain as of the commencement date of the lease. Our lease agreements do not contain any material residual value guarantees or material variable lease payments.

We have entered into various short-term operating leases with an initial term of twelve months or less. These leases are not recorded on our balance sheet, and for the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019, the rent expense for short-term leases was not material.

We have certain property and equipment lease contracts that may contain lease and non-lease components, and we have elected to utilize the practical expedient to account for these components together as a single combined lease component. 

As the rate implicit in most of our lease is not readily determinable, we use the incremental borrowing rate to determine the present value of the lease payments, which is unique to each leased asset, and is based upon the term of the lease, commencement date of the lease, local currency of the leased asset, and the credit rating of the legal entity leasing the asset. 












Depreciation and Amortization Expense

We recognized depreciation expense of $12.1 million and $37.2 million in the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019, respectively. We recognized depreciation expense of $11.7 million and $35.6 million in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively. 

We recognized amortization expense related to our intangible assets of $23.4 million and $71.2 million in the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019. We recognized amortization expense related to our intangible assets of $26.2 million and $76.3 million in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively. 


Impairment

Due to its overall financial performance during the fiscal third quarter and a potential divestiture of the reporting unit, we performed an interim impairment test on the Grass Valley reporting unit, which resulted in a total goodwill and other asset impairment charge of $342.1 million for the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019. The Grass Valley reporting unit is part of our Enterprise Solutions Segment. The impairment charge consisted of impairments to goodwill, customer relationships, and trademarks of $326.1 million, $14.4 million, and $1.6 million, respectively. We determined the estimated fair values of the assets and of the reporting unit by calculating the present values of their estimated future cash flows.



In 2019, we began a restructuring program to integrate Opterna and FutureLink with our existing businesses. The restructuring and integration activities were focused on achieving desired cost savings by consolidating existing and acquired facilities and other support functions. We recognized $3.1 million and $5.6 million of severance and other restructuring costs for this program during the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019, respectively. These costs were incurred by the Enterprise Solutions segment. We do not expect to incur any more costs for this program.


In 2018, we began a restructuring program to integrate SAM with Grass Valley. The restructuring and integration activities were focused on achieving desired cost savings by consolidating existing and acquired facilities and other support functions. We did not recognize severance and other restructuring costs for this program during the three months ended September 29, 2019, and we recognized $3.0 million of severance and other restructuring costs for this program during the nine months ended September 29, 2019. We recognized $7.1 million and $36.6 million of severance and other restructuring costs for this program during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively. The costs were incurred by the Enterprise Solutions segment. The integration of these businesses is complete, and thus, we do not expect to incur any more costs for this program. 


In 2016, we began a program to consolidate our manufacturing footprint. The manufacturing consolidation was complete as of December 31, 2018. We recognized $4.3 million and $15.8 million of severance and other restructuring costs for this program during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018. The costs were incurred by the Enterprise Solutions and Industrial Solutions segments, as the manufacturing locations involved in the program serve both platforms. 






The other restructuring and integration costs primarily consisted of equipment transfer, costs to consolidate operating and support facilities, retention bonuses, relocation, travel, legal, and other costs. The majority of the other restructuring and integration costs related to these actions were paid as incurred or are payable within the next 60 days. 

There were no significant severance accrual balances as of September 29, 2019 or December 31, 2018.





Revolving Credit Agreement due 2022

Our Revolving Credit Agreement provides a $400.0 million multi-currency asset-based revolving credit facility (the Revolver). The borrowing base under the Revolver includes eligible accounts receivable; inventory; and property, plant and equipment of certain of our subsidiaries in the U.S., Canada, Germany, and the Netherlands. The maturity date of the Revolver is May 16, 2022. Interest on outstanding borrowings is variable, based upon LIBOR or other similar indices in foreign jurisdictions, plus a spread that ranges from 1.25%-1.75%, depending upon our leverage position. We pay a commitment fee on our available borrowing capacity of 0.25%. In the event we borrow more than 90% of our borrowing base, we are subject to a fixed charge coverage ratio covenant. As of September 29, 2019, we had no borrowings outstanding on the Revolver, and our available borrowing capacity was $287.0 million. 

Senior Subordinated Notes

We have outstanding €350.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.875% senior subordinated notes due 2028 (the 2028 Notes). The carrying value of the 2028 Notes as of September 29, 2019 is $383.5 million. The 2028 Notes are guaranteed on a senior subordinated basis by our current and future domestic subsidiaries. The 2028 Notes rank equal in right of payment with our senior subordinated notes due 2027, 2026, and 2025 and with any future subordinated debt, and they are subordinated to all of our senior debt and the senior debt of our subsidiary guarantors, including our Revolver. Interest is payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 of each year.

We have outstanding €450.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.375% senior subordinated notes due 2027 (the 2027 Notes). The carrying value of the 2027 Notes as of September 29, 2019 is $493.0 million. The 2027 Notes are guaranteed on a senior subordinated basis by our current and future domestic subsidiaries. The 2027 Notes rank equal in right of payment with our senior subordinated notes due 2028, 2026, and 2025 and with any future subordinated debt, and they are subordinated to all of our senior debt and the senior debt of our subsidiary guarantors, including our Revolver. Interest is payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 of each year. 

We have outstanding €200.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.125% senior subordinated notes due 2026 (the 2026 Notes). The carrying value of the 2026 Notes as of September 29, 2019 is $219.1 million. The 2026 Notes are guaranteed on a senior subordinated basis by our current and future domestic subsidiaries. The 2026 Notes rank equal in right of payment with our senior subordinated notes due 2028, 2027, and 2025 and with any future subordinated debt, and they are subordinated to all of our senior debt and the senior debt of our subsidiary guarantors, including our Revolver. Interest is payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 of each year.

We have outstanding €300.0 million aggregate principal amount of 2.875% senior subordinated notes due 2025 (the 2025 Notes). The carrying value of the 2025 Notes as of September 29, 2019 is $328.7 million. The 2025 Notes are guaranteed on a senior subordinated basis by our current and future domestic subsidiaries. The 2025 Notes rank equal in right of payment with our senior subordinated notes due 2028, 2027, and 2026 and with any future subordinated debt, and they are subordinated to all of our senior debt and the senior debt of our subsidiary guarantors, including our Revolver. Interest is payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 of each year. 


Fair Value of Long-Term Debt

The fair value of our senior subordinated notes as of September 29, 2019 was approximately $1,494.8 million based on quoted prices of the debt instruments in inactive markets (Level 2 valuation). This amount represents the fair value of our senior subordinated notes with a carrying value of $1,424.3 million as of September 29, 2019. 


All of our euro denominated notes were issued by Belden Inc., a USD functional currency entity. As of September 29, 2019, all of our outstanding foreign denominated debt is designated as a net investment hedge on the foreign currency risk of our net investment in our euro foreign operations. The objective of the hedge is to protect the net investment in the foreign operation against adverse changes in the euro exchange rate. The transaction gain or loss is reported in the translation adjustment section of other comprehensive income. For the nine months ended September 29, 2019 and September 30, 2018, the transaction gain associated with these notes that was reported in other comprehensive income was $62.1 million and $46.3 million, respectively. 


For the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019, we recognized income tax expense of $2.8 million and $13.6 million, respectively, representing an effective tax rate of (1.0%) and (6.3%), respectively. The effective tax rates were impacted by an income tax benefit of $5.7 million as a result of changes in our estimated valuation allowance requirement related to foreign tax credits due to the restructuring of certain foreign operations. These effective rates are also reflective of the impact of more favorable statutory tax rates applied to the earnings of these foreign operations due to the restructuring efforts. The income tax expense for the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019 was also impacted by a $5.1 million income tax benefit for the partial deductibility of the goodwill and other asset impairment charge during the period.


















On November 29, 2018, our Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program, which allows us to purchase up to $300.0 million of our common stock through open market repurchases, negotiated transactions, or other means, in accordance with applicable securities laws and other restrictions. This program is funded with cash on hand and cash flows from operating activities. The program does not have an expiration date and may be suspended at any time at the discretion of the Company. During the three months ended September 29, 2019, we repurchased 0.5 million shares of our common stock under the share repurchase program for an aggregate cost of $27.2 million and an average price per share of $55.17. During the nine months ended September 29, 2019, we repurchased 0.9 million shares of our common stock under the share repurchase program for an aggregate cost of $50.0 million and an average price per share of $56.19. During the three months ended September 30, 2018, we repurchased 0.3 million shares of our common stock under a previous share repurchase program for an aggregate cost of $25.0 million and an average price per share of $72.62. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we repurchased 1.8 million shares of our common stock under a previous share repurchase program for an aggregate cost of $125.0 million and an average price per share of $70.13.


Assets Held for Sale

We classify assets and liabilities as held for sale (disposal group) when management, having the authority to approve the action, commits to a plan to sell the disposal group, the sale is probable within one year, and the disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition. We also consider whether an active program to locate a buyer has been initiated, whether the disposal group is marketed actively for sale at a price that is reasonable in relation to its current fair value, and whether actions required to complete the plan indicate that it is unlikely that significant changes to the plan will be made or that the plan will be withdrawn. During the fourth quarter of 2019, we committed to a plan to sell Grass Valley, and at such time, met all of the criteria to classify the assets and liabilities of this business as held for sale. As a result, the Grass Valley disposal group, which is currently part of the Enterprise Solutions segment, will be included in discontinued operations commencing in the fourth quarter. We also ceased 


depreciating and amortizing the assets of the disposal group once they met the held for sale criteria in the fourth quarter. We intend to complete the sale of the Grass Valley disposal group during the next twelve months. As discussed in Note 8, we recognized an impairment charge for the disposal group of $342.1 million during the third quarter of 2019, which consisted of impairments to goodwill, customer relationships, and trademarks of $326.1 million, $14.4 million, and $1.6 million, respectively. As of September 29, 2019, Grass Valley had total assets and total liabilities of $491.8 million and $194.0 million, respectively, and accumulated other comprehensive losses of $73.2 million.

Cost Reduction Program

During the fourth quarter, we announced a cost reduction program designed to improve performance and enhance margins by streamlining the organizational structure and investing in technology to drive productivity. The cost reduction program is expected to deliver an estimated $40.0 million annualized reduction in selling, general, and administrative expenses, with some benefit in 2020, and the full benefit realized in 2021. We expect to incur severance and other related costs as part of this program but the timing and amounts of such costs are not yet known.


Item 2: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Overview

Belden Inc. (the Company, us, we, or our) is a global supplier of specialty networking solutions built around two global business platforms - Enterprise Solutions and Industrial Solutions. Our comprehensive portfolio of solutions enables customers to transmit and secure data, sound, and video for mission critical applications across complex enterprise and industrial environments.


We use a set of tools and processes that are designed to continuously improve business performance in the critical areas of quality, delivery, cost, and innovation. We consider revenue growth, Adjusted EBITDA margin, free cash flows, and return on invested capital to be our key operating performance indicators. We also seek to acquire businesses that we believe can help us achieve these objectives. 

Trends and Events

The following trends and events during 2019 have had varying effects on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.

Foreign currency

Our exposure to currency rate fluctuations primarily relates to exchange rate movements between the U.S. dollar and the euro, Canadian dollar, Hong Kong dollar, Chinese yuan, Japanese yen, Mexican peso, Australian dollar, British pound, Indian rupee, and Brazilian real. Generally, as the U.S. dollar strengthens against these foreign currencies, our revenues and earnings are negatively impacted as our foreign denominated revenues and earnings are translated into U.S. dollars at a lower rate. Conversely, as the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, our revenues and earnings are positively impacted. During the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019, approximately 48% of our consolidated revenues were to customers outside of the U.S.

In addition to the translation impact described above, currency rate fluctuations have an economic impact on our financial results. As the U.S. dollar strengthens or weakens against foreign currencies, it results in a relative price increase or decrease for certain of our products that are priced in U.S. dollars in a foreign location.

Commodity prices

Our operating results can be affected by changes in prices of commodities, primarily copper and compounds, which are components in some of the products we sell. Generally, as the costs of inventory purchases increase due to higher commodity prices, we raise selling prices to customers to cover the increase in costs, resulting in higher sales revenue but a lower gross profit percentage. Conversely, a decrease in commodity prices would result in lower sales revenue but a higher gross profit percentage. Selling prices of our products are affected by many factors, including end market demand, capacity utilization, overall economic conditions, and commodity prices. Importantly, however, there is no exact measure of the effect of changing commodity prices, as there are thousands of transactions in any given quarter, each of which has various factors involved in the individual pricing decisions. Therefore, all references to the effect of copper prices or other commodity prices are estimates.

Channel Inventory

Our operating results also can be affected by the levels of Belden products purchased and held as inventory by our channel partners and customers. Our channel partners and customers purchase and hold the products they bought from us in their inventory in order to meet the service and on-time delivery requirements of their customers. Generally, as our channel partners and customers change the level of products they buy from us and hold in their inventory, it impacts our revenues. Comparisons of our results between periods can be impacted by changes in the levels of channel inventory. We use information provided to us by our channel partners and make certain assumptions based on our sales to them to determine the amount of products they bought from us and hold in their inventory. As such, all references to the effect of channel inventory changes are estimates.


Market Growth and Market Share

The markets in which we operate can generally be characterized as highly competitive and highly fragmented, with many players. We monitor available data regarding market growth, including independent market research reports, publicly available indices, and the financial results of our direct and indirect peer companies, in order to estimate the extent to which our served markets grew or contracted during a particular period. We expect that our unit sales volume will increase or decrease consistently with the market growth rate. Our strategic goal is to utilize our Market Delivery System to target faster growing geographies, applications, and trends within our end markets, in order to achieve growth that is higher than the general market growth rate. To the extent that we exceed the market growth rates, we consider it to be the result of capturing market share.

Acquisitions

We completed the acquisitions of Opterna International Corp. (Opterna) on April 15, 2019 and FutureLink on April 5, 2019. The results of Opterna and FutureLink have been included in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements from the acquisition dates and are reported in the Enterprise Solutions segment. See Note 3.

Goodwill and Other Asset Impairment

We performed an interim impairment test on our Grass Valley reporting unit, which resulted in a total goodwill and other asset impairment charge of $342.1 million for the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019. See Note 8.

Opterna and FutureLink Integration Program

In 2019, we began a restructuring program to integrate Opterna and FutureLink with our existing businesses. The restructuring and integration activities are focused on achieving desired cost savings by consolidating existing and acquired facilities and other support functions. We recognized $3.1 million and $5.6 million of severance and other restructuring costs for this program during the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019, respectively. The costs were incurred by the Enterprise Solutions segment. We do not expect to incur any more costs for this program. 

Grass Valley and SAM Integration Program

In 2018, we began a restructuring program to integrate SAM with Grass Valley. The restructuring and integration activities are focused on achieving desired cost savings by consolidating existing and acquired facilities and other support functions. We recognized $3.0 million of severance and other restructuring costs for this program during the nine months ended September 29, 2019. The costs were incurred by the Enterprise Solutions segment. The integration of these businesses is complete, and thus, we do not expect to incur any more costs for this program. 

Preferred Stock Conversion

On July 15, 2019, all outstanding Preferred Stock was automatically converted into shares of Belden common stock at the conversion rate of 132.50, resulting in the issuance of approximately 6.9 million shares of Belden common stock. Upon conversion, the Preferred Stock was automatically extinguished and discharged, is no longer deemed outstanding for all purposes, and delisted from trading on the New York Stock Exchange. During the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019, dividends on the Preferred Stock were $1.0 million and $18.4 million, respectively. See Note 15.

Subsequent Events

During the fourth quarter of 2019, we committed to a plan to sell Grass Valley, and at such time, met all of the criteria to classify the assets and liabilities of this business as held for sale. As a result, the Grass Valley disposal group, which is currently part of the Enterprise Solutions segment, will be included in discontinued operations commencing in the fourth quarter. We intend to complete the sale of the Grass Valley disposal group during the next twelve months. 

During the fourth quarter, we announced a cost reduction program designed to improve performance and enhance margins by streamlining the organizational structure and investing in technology to drive productivity. The cost reduction program is expected to deliver an estimated $40.0 million annualized reduction in selling, general, and administrative expenses, with some benefit in 2020, and the full benefit realized in 2021. We expect to incur severance and other related costs as part of this program but the timing and amounts of such costs are not yet known.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We have no off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows that are or would be considered material to investors.


Critical Accounting Policies


•We did not change any of our existing critical accounting policies from those listed in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K other than updating our lease accounting policies for the adoption of ASU 2016-02;

•No existing accounting policies became critical accounting policies because of an increase in the materiality of associated transactions or changes in the circumstances to which associated judgments and estimates relate; and

•There were no significant changes in the manner in which critical accounting policies were applied or in which related judgments and estimates were developed. 

Results of Operations

Consolidated Income before Taxes 



Gross profit decreased $25.5 million and $47.9 million in the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019, respectively, from the comparable periods of 2018. Gross profit for the three months ended September 29, 2019 decreased due to the decreases in revenue discussed above as well as unfavorable mix; partially offset by decreases in severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs of $4.0 million from the comparable period of 2018. Gross profit for the nine months ended September 29, 2019 decreased due to the decreases in revenue discussed above as well as unfavorable mix; partially offset by decreases in severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs of $19.7 million from the comparable period of 2018.

Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $12.5 million and $31.0 million in the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019, respectively, from the comparable periods of 2018. Improved productivity; a decline in severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs; and currency translation contributed $10.0 million, $3.0 million, and $1.2 million, respectively, to the decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended September 29, 2019 as compared to the year ago period; partially offset by the impact of acquisitions, which increased selling, general and administrative expenses by $1.7 million. A decline in severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs; improved productivity; and currency translation contributed $21.9 million, $14.3 million, and $3.9 million, respectively, to the decrease in selling, general 


and administrative expenses for the nine months ended September 29, 2019 as compared to the year ago period; partially offset by the impact of acquisitions, which increased selling, general and administrative expenses by $9.1 million. The improved productivity stems from successful cost saving measures implemented during the current year. 

Research and development expenses decreased $2.1 million and $7.2 million in the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019, respectively, from the comparable periods of 2018. Productivity improvement initiatives contributed $1.4 million and $3.2 million to the decline in research and development expenses in the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019, respectively, from the comparable periods of 2018. Decreases in severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs of $0.5 million and $4.4 million also contributed to the decline in research and development expenses in the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019, respectively, over the year ago period. Currency translation contributed $0.3 million and $1.1 million to the decline in research and development expenses in the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019, respectively, as compared to the year ago period. The above decreases were partially offset by the impact of acquisitions, which increased research and development expenses by $0.1 million and 1.5 million in the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019, respectively, as compared to the year ago period. 

Amortization of intangibles decreased $3.3 million and $7.0 million in the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019, respectively, from the comparable periods of 2018 primarily due to certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized.

Goodwill and other asset impairment increased $342.1 million in the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019 from the comparable periods of 2018. We performed an interim impairment test on our Grass Valley reporting unit, which resulted in a total goodwill and other asset impairment charge of $342.1 million for the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019. 

Gain from patent litigation decreased $62.1 million in the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019 from the comparable periods of 2018. In 2011, our wholly-owned subsidiary, PPC, filed an action for patent infringement against Corning alleging they willfully infringed upon two of their patents, and after years of post-trial motions and appeals, the District Court ruled that Corning shall pay judgments of $62.1 million, which we received in July 2018 and recorded as a gain from patent litigation for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018.

Operating income decreased $411.8 million and $406.9 million in the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019, respectively, from the comparable periods of 2018 primarily as a result of the $342.1 million goodwill and other asset impairment charge recognized during the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019, the $62.1 million gain from patent litigation during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, and the decline in gross profit discussed above.

Net interest expense decreased $0.3 million and $4.0 million in the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019, respectively, from the comparable periods of 2018 as a result of our debt transactions during 2018. In March 2018, we issued €350.0 million aggregate principal amount of new senior subordinated notes due 2028 at an interest rate of 3.875%, and used the net proceeds of this offering and cash on hand to repurchase all of our outstanding €200.0 million 5.5% senior subordinated notes due 2023 as well as all of our outstanding $200.0 million 5.25% senior subordinated notes due 2024. 

The loss on debt extinguishment recognized in 2018 represents the premium paid to the bond holders to retire a portion of the 2023 and 2024 notes and the unamortized debt issuance costs written-off. 

Income (loss) before taxes decreased $412.4 million and $379.3 million in the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019, respectively, from the comparable periods of 2018. The decrease is primarily a result of the operating loss during the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019; partially offset by the loss on debt extinguishment in the nine months ended September 30, 2018.

Income Taxes



For the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019, we recognized income tax expense of $2.8 million and $13.6 million, respectively, representing an effective tax rate of (1.0)% and (6.3)%, respectively. The effective tax rates were impacted by an income tax benefit of $5.7 million as a result of changes in our estimated valuation allowance requirement related to foreign tax credits due to the restructuring of certain foreign operations. These effective rates are also reflective of the impact of more favorable statutory tax rates applied to the earnings of these foreign operations due to the restructuring efforts. The income tax expense for the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019 was also impacted by a $5.1 million income tax benefit for the partial deductibility of the goodwill and other asset impairment charge during the period.



•We recognized an income tax benefit of $1.2 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 due to a decrease in reserves for uncertain tax positions of prior years.

Our income tax expense and effective tax rate in future periods may be impacted by many factors, including our geographic mix of income and changes in tax laws.

Consolidated Adjusted Revenues and Adjusted EBITDA 



Adjusted EBITDA decreased $25.1 million and $62.7 million in the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019, respectively, from the comparable periods of 2018. Adjusted EBITDA for both the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019 decreased due to the decreases in Adjusted Revenues discussed above as well as unfavorable mix as compared to the year ago period of 2018. 

Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information



above in all periods presented, unless the impact is clearly immaterial to our financial statements. When we calculate the tax effect of the adjustments, we include all current and deferred income tax expense commensurate with the adjusted measure of pre-tax profitability.









to the Opterna and FutureLink acquisitions. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, we recognized cost of sales for the adjustment of acquired inventory to fair value related to the SAM and NT2 acquisitions.

Segment Results of Operations

For additional information regarding our segment measures, see Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.

Enterprise Solutions


Enterprise Solutions revenues decreased $24.0 million and $78.3 million in the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019, respectively, from the comparable periods of 2018. For the three months ended September 29, 2019, decreases in volume, unfavorable currency translation, and lower copper prices contributed an estimated $28.2 million, $3.5 million, and $2.8 million to the decline in revenues, respectively; partially offset by the impact of acquisitions, which contributed an estimated $10.5 million increase in revenues. For the nine months ended September 29, 2019, decreases in volume, unfavorable currency translation, and lower copper prices contributed an estimated $86.5 million, $13.9 million, and $6.7 million to the decline in revenues, respectively, partially offset by the impact of acquisitions, which contributed an estimated $28.8 million increase in revenues. The decrease in revenues was most notable in Asia, and partially offset by continued growth and share capture in the Americas region. 

Enterprise Solutions EBITDA decreased $15.4 million and $50.1 million in the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019, respectively, compared to the year ago periods primarily as a result of the decline in revenues discussed above. 

Industrial Solutions 


Industrial Solutions revenues decreased $14.7 million and $14.5 million in the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019, respectively, from the comparable period of 2018. The decrease in revenues in the three months ended September 29, 2019 from the comparable period of 2018 was primarily due to decrease in volume, unfavorable currency translation, and lower copper prices, which had an estimated impact of $8.3 million, $3.6 million, and $2.8 million, respectively. The decrease in volume was primarily due to changes in channel inventory levels. The decrease in revenues in the nine months ended September 29, 2019 from the comparable period of 2018 was primarily due to unfavorable currency translation and lower copper prices, which had an estimated impact of $18.0 million and $8.8 million, respectively; partially offset by an increase in volume, which increased revenues $12.3 million over the year ago period.

Industrial Solutions EBITDA decreased $9.1 million and $13.9 million in the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019, respectively, from the comparable periods of 2018 primarily as a result of the changes in revenues discussed above. 

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Significant factors affecting our cash liquidity include (1) cash from operating activities, (2) disposals of businesses and tangible assets, (3) cash used for acquisitions, restructuring actions, capital expenditures, share repurchases, dividends, and senior subordinated note repurchases, (4) our available credit facilities and other borrowing arrangements, and (5) cash proceeds from equity offerings. We expect our operating activities to generate cash in 2019 and believe our sources of liquidity are sufficient to 





Operating cash flows were a source of cash of $89.5 million and $100.9 million in 2019 and 2018, respectively. The $11.4 million decline as compared to prior year is primarily due to the $62 million pre-tax cash proceeds from the Corning patent litigation received in 2018. Excluding the patent litigation proceeds, operating cash flows increased year-over-year due in part to favorable changes in receivables and inventory. Receivables were a source of cash of $6.0 million compared to a use of cash of $25.3 million in the prior year. Inventory was a source of cash of $32.3 million compared to a use of cash of $16.6 million in the prior year. The improvements in receivables and inventory are attributable to effective working capital management. 

Net cash used for investing activities totaled $125.0 million in 2019, compared to $106.3 million for the comparable period of 2018. Investing activities for the nine months ended September 29, 2019 included capital expenditures of $74.1 million compared to $63.5 million in the comparable period of 2018. The increase in capital expenditures of $10.6 million is due in part to the investments we are making in India and software development. The nine months ended September 29, 2019 included payments, net of cash acquired for acquisitions of $51.0 million primarily for the acquisition of Opterna, and the nine months ended September 30, 2018 included payments, net of cash acquired for acquisitions of $84.6 million for the acquisitions of SAM and NT2. Additionally, the nine months ended September 30, 2018 included proceeds from the disposal of the MCS business and Hirshmann JV of $40.2 million, which closed on December 31, 2017.

Net cash used for financing activities for the nine months ended September 29, 2019 totaled $84.4 million, compared to $220.9 million for the comparable period of 2018. Financing activities for the nine months ended September 29, 2019 included payments under our share repurchase program of $50.0 million, cash dividend payments of $32.2 million, and net payments related to share based compensation activities of $2.1 million. Financing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 included payments under borrowing arrangements of $484.8 million, payments under our share repurchase program of $125.0 million, cash dividend payments of $32.4 million, debt issuance costs of $7.6 million, net payments related to share based compensation activities of $2.0 million, and $431.3 million of cash proceeds from the issuance of the €350.0 million 3.875% Notes due 2028.

Our cash and cash equivalents balance was $296.7 million as of September 29, 2019. Of this amount, $199.5 million was held outside of the U.S. in our foreign operations. Substantially all of the foreign cash and cash equivalents are readily convertible into U.S. dollars or other foreign currencies. We consider the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to be indefinitely reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for any withholding taxes has been recorded. Upon distribution of those earnings in the form of dividends or otherwise, we may be subject to withholding taxes payable to the respective foreign countries.

Our outstanding debt obligations as of September 29, 2019 consisted of $1,424.3 million of senior subordinated notes. Additional discussion regarding our various borrowing arrangements is included in Note 10 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. As of September 29, 2019, we had $287.0 million in available borrowing capacity under our Revolver.


Forward-Looking Statements

Statements in this report other than historical facts are “forward-looking statements” made in reliance upon the safe harbor of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include statements regarding future financial performance (including revenues, expenses, earnings, margins, cash flows, dividends, capital expenditures and financial condition), plans and objectives, and related assumptions. These forward-looking statements reflect management’s current beliefs and expectations and are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results may differ materially from those suggested by any forward-looking statements based on a number of factors. These factors include, among others, those set forth in Part II, Item 1A and in other documents that we file with the SEC. 

We expressly disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by law.

Item 3: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risks

The following table provides information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. The table presents principal amounts by expected maturity dates and fair values as of September 29, 2019. 


Item 7A of our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K provides information as to the practices and instruments that we use to manage market risks. There were no material changes in our exposure to market risks since December 31, 2018.

Item 4: Controls and Procedures

As of the end of the period covered by this report, we conducted an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of the principal executive officer and principal financial officer, of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). Based on this evaluation, the principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this report.

There was no change in our internal control over financial reporting during our most recently completed fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.


PART II OTHER INFORMATION

Item 1: Legal Proceedings

SEC Investigation - As disclosed in our Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on December 3, 2018, we are fully cooperating with an SEC investigation related to the material weakness in internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017 disclosed in our 2017 Form 10-K. We continue to believe that the outcome of the investigation will not have a material adverse effect on the Company.

We are a party to various other legal proceedings and administrative actions that are incidental to our operations. In our opinion, the proceedings and actions in which we are involved should not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results, or cash flows. However, since the trends and outcome of this litigation are inherently uncertain, we cannot give absolute assurance regarding the future resolution of such litigation, or that such litigation may not become material in the future.

Item 1A: Risk Factors

There have been no material changes with respect to risk factors as previously disclosed in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Item 2: Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds

Set forth below is information regarding our stock repurchases for the three months ended September 29, 2019 (in thousands, except per share amounts).




Item 6: Exhibits

Exhibits



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


