UNITED STATES 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 





  [X]   QUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934   

    For the Quarterly Period Ended September 30, 2018   

  or   

  [ ]   TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934   


Commission File No. 0-11676 


BEL FUSE INC.

 206 Van Vorst Street

 Jersey City, NJ 07302





  (State of incorporation)       (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)    





Return to Index

CAUTIONARY NOTICE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION 

The terms the "Company," "Bel," "we," "us," and "our" as used in this report refer to Bel Fuse Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries unless otherwise specified. 

The Company's consolidated operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors that could materially and adversely affect revenues and profitability, including the risk factors described in Item 1A of our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K. As a result of these and other factors, the Company may experience material fluctuations in future operating results on a quarterly or annual basis, which could materially and adversely affect its business, consolidated financial condition, operating results, and common stock prices. Furthermore, this document and other documents filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") contain certain forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ("Forward-Looking Statements") with respect to the business of the Company. Forward-Looking Statements are necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside our control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from these statements. Forward-Looking Statements can be identified by such words as "anticipates," "believes," "plan," "assumes," "could," "should," "estimates," "expects," "intends," "potential," "seek," "predict," "may," "will" and similar references to future periods. All statements other than statements of historical facts included in this report regarding our strategies, prospects, financial condition, operations, costs, plans and objectives are Forward-Looking Statements. These Forward-Looking Statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, including those detailed in Item 1A of our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K, which could cause actual results to differ materially from these Forward-Looking Statements. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly release the results of any revisions to these Forward-Looking Statements which may be necessary to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Any Forward-Looking Statement made by the Company is based only on information currently available to us and speaks only as of the date on which it is made. 


Return to Index

PART I. Financial Information 

Item 1. Financial Statements (Unaudited) 



Return to Index



Return to Index



Return to Index



Return to Index

BEL FUSE INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

  1.   BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND ACCOUNTING POLICIES     

The condensed consolidated balance sheets, statements of operations, comprehensive income and cash flows for the periods presented herein have been prepared by the Company and are unaudited. In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting solely of normal recurring adjustments) necessary to present fairly the consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows for all periods presented have been made. The results for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full year. These condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and footnotes thereto included in the Bel Fuse Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017. 

Certain information and footnote disclosures required under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP") have been condensed or omitted from the following condensed consolidated financial statements pursuant to the rules and regulations, including the interim reporting requirements, of the SEC. The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts and the disclosure of contingent amounts in our condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from these estimates. 

The Company's significant accounting policies are summarized in Note 1 of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017. There were no significant changes to these accounting policies during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, except as discussed in Note 2, Revenue, related to the adoption of the new revenue standards. 

All amounts included in the tables to these notes to condensed consolidated financial statements, except per share amounts, are in thousands. 

Recently Adopted Accounting Standards 

In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) ("ASU 2014-09"), which amends the existing accounting standards for revenue recognition. ASU 2014-09 is based on principles that govern the recognition of revenue at an amount an entity expects to be entitled when products are transferred to customers. Subsequently, the FASB issued several other updates related to revenue recognition (collectively with ASU 2014-09, the "new revenue standards" or "ASC 606"). We adopted the guidance under the new revenue standards effective January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective approach by recognizing the cumulative effect of initially applying the new standard as an increase to the opening balance of retained earnings. 

Upon adoption, the new revenue standards replaced most existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S. GAAP. Based on our review of representative samples of contracts and other forms of agreements with customers globally and our evaluation of the provisions under the five-step model specified by the new revenue standards, the Company has implemented changes with respect to timing of revenue recognition primarily related to arrangements for which the customer takes the Company's products from a facility holding consignment inventory. 

In connection with the modified retrospective application of the new revenue standards, we recorded an adjustment to increase retained earnings of $3.4 million upon the January 1, 2018 adoption date. Apart from this adjustment and the inclusion of additional required disclosures in Note 2, the adoption of the new revenue standards did not have a material impact on the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements.  




Return to Index





Accounting Standards Issued But Not Yet Adopted 

In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), to provide a new comprehensive model for lease accounting. Under this guidance, lessees and lessors should apply a "right-of-use" model in accounting for all leases (including subleases) and eliminate the concept of operating leases and off-balance sheet leases. Recognition, measurement and presentation of expenses will depend on classification as a finance or operating lease. Similar modifications have been made to lessor accounting in-line with revenue recognition guidance. This guidance is effective for annual periods and interim periods within those annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018. The amendments also require certain quantitative and qualitative disclosures about leasing arrangements. The updated guidance requires a modified retrospective adoption. We plan to adopt the standard on January 1, 2019. We are currently assessing the impact that the new standard will have on our consolidated financial statements, which will consist primarily of recording right-of-use assets and lease liabilities related to our operating leases on our consolidated balance sheet. 




Return to Index






Significant Accounting Policy 

On January 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASC 606 using the modified retrospective method applied to those contracts which were not completed as of January 1, 2018. Results for reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2018 are presented under ASC 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historical accounting under ASC 605. The adoption of ASC 606 represents a change in accounting principle that will more closely align revenue recognition with the transfer of control of the Company's goods and services and provides financial statement readers with enhanced disclosures related to the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. 

In accordance with ASC 606, revenue is recognized when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services. The amount of revenue recognized reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled to receive in exchange for these goods and services. 

Taxes assessed by a governmental authority that are both imposed on and concurrent with a specific revenue-producing transaction, that are collected by the Company from a customer, are excluded from revenue. 

Shipping and handling costs associated with outbound freight after control over a product has transferred to a customer are accounted for as a fulfillment cost and are included in cost of sales. 

Nature of Goods and Services 

Our revenues are substantially derived from sales of our products. 



Return to Index

In our power solutions and protection group, we provide AC-DC and DC-DC power conversion devices and circuit protection products. Applications range from board-mount power to system-level architectures for servers, storage, networking, industrial and transportation. 

In our magnetic solutions group, we provide an extensive line of integrated connector modules (ICM), where an Ethernet magnetic solution is integrated into a connector package. Products within the Company's magnetic solutions group are primarily used in networking and industrial applications. 

The Company also provides incremental services to our customers in the form of training, technical support, special tooling, and other support as deemed necessary from time to time. For purposes of ASC 606, all such incremental services were concluded to be immaterial in the context of the contracts. 

Types of Contracts 







Return to Index

Warranties 

Warranties vary by product line and are competitive for the markets in which the Company operates. Warranties generally extend for one to three years from the date of sale, providing customers with assurance that the related product will function as intended. The Company reviews its warranty liability quarterly based on an analysis of actual expenses and failure rates accompanied with estimated future costs and projected failure rate trends. Factors taken into consideration when evaluating our warranty reserve are (i) historical claims for each product, (ii) volume increases, (iii) life of warranty, (iv) historical warranty repair costs and (v) other factors. To the extent that actual experience differs from our estimate, the provision for product warranties will be adjusted in future periods. Actual warranty repair costs are charged against the reserve balance as incurred. See Note 7, "Accrued Expenses." 

Product Returns 

We estimate product returns, including product exchanges under warranty, based on historical experience. In general, the Company is not contractually obligated to accept returns except for defective product or in instances where the product does not meet the Company's product specifications. However, the Company may permit its customers to return product for other reasons. In certain instances, the Company would generally require a significant cancellation penalty payment by the customer. The Company estimates such returns, where applicable, based upon management's evaluation of historical experience, market acceptance of products produced and known negotiations with customers. Such estimates are deducted from sales and provided for at the time revenue is recognized. Distribution customers often receive what is referred to as "ship and debit" arrangements, whereby Bel will invoice them at an agreed upon unit price upon shipment of product and a price reduction may be granted if the market price of the product declines after shipment. Distributors may also be entitled to special pricing discount credits, and certain customers are entitled to return allowances based on previous sales volumes. Bel deducts estimates for anticipated credits, refunds and returns from sales each quarter based on historical experience. 

Significant Payment Terms 

Contracts with customers indicate the general terms and conditions in which business will be conducted for a set period of time. Individual purchase orders state the description, quantity and price of each product purchased. Payment for products sold under direct contracts with customers or contracts with distributors is typically due in full within 30-90 days from the transfer of title to customer. Payment for products sold under consignment contracts is typically due within 60 days of the customer pulling the product from the hub. Payment due related to our licensing agreements is generally within 30 days of receiving the licensee sales data, which is either on a quarterly or annual basis. 

Since the customer agrees to a stated price for each product on each purchase order, the majority of contracts are not subject to variable consideration. However, the "ship and debit" arrangements with distributors, royalty income associated with our licensing agreements, and the product returns described above are each deemed to be variable consideration which requires the Company to make constrained estimates based on historical data. 

Disaggregation of Revenue 




Return to Index








Return to Index


A contract asset results when goods or services have been transferred to the customer but payment is contingent upon a future event, other than passage of time. In the case of our consignment arrangements, we are unable to invoice the customer until product is pulled from the hub by the customer, which generates an unbilled receivable (a contract asset) when revenue is initially recognized. 

A contract liability results when cash payments are received or due in advance of our performance obligation being met. We have certain customers who provide payment in advance of product being shipped, which results in deferred revenue (a contract liability). 



The change in balance of our unbilled receivables from January 1, 2018 to September 30, 2018 primarily relates to a timing difference between the Company's performance (i.e. when our product is shipped to a customer-controlled hub) and the point at which the Company can invoice the customer per the terms of the customer contract (i.e. when the customer pulls our product from the customer-controlled hub). 




The aggregate amount of transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations that have not been satisfied as of September 30, 2018 related to contracts that exceed one year in duration amounted to $17.6 million, with expected contract expiration dates that range from 2019 - 2024. It is expected that 14% of this aggregate amount will be recognized in the fourth quarter of 2019, 52% will be recognized in 2020 and the remainder will be recognized in years beyond 2020. The majority of the Company's total backlog of orders at September 30, 2018 is related to contracts that have an original expected duration of one year or less, for which the Company is electing to utilize the practical expedient available within the guidance, and are excluded from the transaction price related to these future obligations. The Company will generally satisfy the remaining performance obligations as we transfer control of the products ordered to our customers. The transaction price related to these future obligations also excludes variable consideration consisting of sales or usage-based royalties earned on licensing agreements. The variability related to these sales or usage-based royalties will be resolved in the periods when the licensee generates sales related to the licensed intellectual property. 






Return to Index

  3.   EARNINGS PER SHARE     


4. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS 


Level 1 – Observable inputs such as quoted market prices in active markets; 

Level 2 – Inputs other than quoted prices in active markets that are either directly or indirectly observable; and 

Level 3 – Unobservable inputs about which little or no market data exists, therefore requiring an entity to develop its own assumptions. 

As of December 31, 2017, the Company held certain financial assets that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis. These consisted of securities that are among the Company's investments in a rabbi trust which are intended to fund the Company's Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan ("SERP") obligations. The gross unrealized gains associated with the investment securities held in the rabbi trust were $0.2 million at December 31, 2017. Such unrealized gains are included, net of tax, in accumulated other comprehensive loss. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Company sold its securities and realized a gain on sale of $0.2 million. The proceeds of $1.3 million were reinvested in other securities within the rabbi trust. 

As of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, our securities primarily consisted of investments held in a rabbi trust of $1.3 million and $1.5 million, respectively, which were measured at fair value using quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (Level 1) inputs. The Company does not have any financial assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis categorized as Level 3, and there were no transfers in or out of Level 1, Level 2 or Level 3 during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 or September 30, 2017. Excluding the changes made in accordance with the Company's adoption of ASU 2016-01, there were no additional changes to the Company's valuation techniques used to measure asset fair values on a recurring or nonrecurring basis during the nine months ended September 30, 2018. 


Return to Index

There were no financial assets accounted for at fair value on a nonrecurring basis as of September 30, 2018 or December 31, 2017. 

The Company has other financial instruments, such as cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, restricted cash, accounts payable, accrued expenses and notes payable, which are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis but are recorded at amounts that approximate fair value due to their liquid or short-term nature. The fair value of the Company's long-term debt is estimated using a discounted cash flow method based on interest rates that are currently available for debt issuances with similar terms and maturities. At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the estimated fair value of total debt was $116.9 million and $124.8 million, respectively, compared to a carrying amount of $114.8 million and $122.7 million, respectively. The Company did not have any other financial liabilities within the scope of the fair value disclosure requirements as of September 30, 2018. 

Nonfinancial assets and liabilities, such as goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and long-lived assets, are accounted for at fair value on a nonrecurring basis. These items are tested for impairment upon the occurrence of a triggering event or in the case of goodwill, on at least an annual basis. There were no triggering events that occurred during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 that would warrant interim impairment testing. 




  6.    PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT     



Depreciation expense for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 was $2.8 million and $3.6 million, respectively. Depreciation expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 was $8.9 million and $10.6 million, respectively. 


Return to Index







The Company has a Credit and Security Agreement with KeyBank National Association (as amended, the "CSA"). The CSA consists of (i) a term loan, with outstanding borrowings of $116.7 million and $125.0 million at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively and (ii) a $75 million revolving credit facility ("Revolver"), with no outstanding borrowings at September 30, 2018 or December 31, 2017. The CSA has a maturity date of December 11, 2022. At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the carrying value of the debt on the condensed consolidated balance sheet is reflected net of $1.9 million and $2.3 million, respectively, of deferred financing costs. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Company made voluntary prepayments of $6.0 million. Per the terms of the CSA, such voluntary prepayments reduce the amount of future scheduled payments on a pro rata basis. 

The weighted-average interest rate in effect was 4.25% at September 30, 2018 and 3.38% at December 31, 2017 and consisted of LIBOR plus the Company's credit spread, as determined per the terms of the CSA. The Company incurred $1.4 million and $1.5 million of interest expense during the three months ended September 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively, and $3.9 million and $4.5 million of interest expense during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively. 

The CSA contains customary representations and warranties, covenants and events of default and financial covenants that measure (i) the ratio of the Company's total funded indebtedness, on a consolidated basis, to the amount of the Company's consolidated EBITDA, as defined, ("Leverage Ratio") and (ii) the ratio of the amount of the Company's consolidated EBITDA to the Company's consolidated fixed charges. If an event of default occurs, the lenders under the CSA would be entitled to take various actions, including the acceleration of amounts due thereunder and all actions permitted to be taken by a secured creditor. At September 30, 2018, the Company was in compliance with its debt covenants, including its most restrictive covenant, the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio. 


The Company and its subsidiaries file income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction and various states and foreign jurisdictions. The Company is no longer subject to U.S. federal examinations by tax authorities for years before 2015 and for state examinations before 2012. Regarding foreign subsidiaries, the Company is no longer subject to examination by tax authorities for years before 2008 in Asia and generally 2010 in Europe. 


Return to Index

As a result of the expiration of the statutes of limitations for specific jurisdictions, it is reasonably possible that the related unrecognized benefits for tax positions taken regarding previously filed tax returns may change materially from those recorded as liabilities for uncertain tax positions in the Company's consolidated financial statements at September 30, 2018. The Company's liabilities for uncertain tax positions totaled $28.2 million and $30.4 million at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, of which $1.1 million and $2.5 million is included in other current liabilities at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. These amounts, if recognized, would reduce the Company's effective tax rate. As of September 30, 2018, approximately $2.5 million of the Company's liabilities for uncertain tax positions were resolved during 2018 by way of expiration of the related statute of limitations. 

The Company's policy is to recognize interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions as a component of the current provision for income taxes. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, the Company recognized $0.7 million and $0.6 million, respectively, in interest and penalties in the consolidated statements of operations. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Company recognized a benefit of $0.3 million and $0.7 million, respectively, for the reversal of such interest and penalties, relating to the expiration of statutes of limitations and settlement of the acquired liability for uncertain tax positions. There were no reversals of interest or penalties in the three or nine months ended September 30, 2017. The Company has approximately $3.1 million and $3.2 million accrued for the payment of interest and penalties at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, which is included in both income taxes payable and liability for uncertain tax positions in the consolidated balance sheets. 

Tax Reform 

The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Act") was enacted on December 22, 2017. The Act reduces the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, requires companies to pay a one-time transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred and creates new taxes on certain foreign sourced earnings. At December 31, 2017, we had not completed our accounting for the tax effects of enactment of the Act; however, we had made a reasonable estimate of the effects on our existing deferred tax balances and the one-time transition tax in which we recognized a provisional amount of $18.1 million, which was included as a component of income tax expense from continuing operations. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Company has made measurement-period adjustments related to foreign earnings and profits computations and foreign income tax calculations for the Company's non-U.S. subsidiaries. The Company's measurement-period adjustment reduced its estimate of the deemed repatriation tax by $2.6 million, resulting in the reduction of the Company's provisional estimate from $18.1 million to $15.5 million. The Company plans to pay the tax in installments in accordance with the Act. The Company's estimates of the effects of the Act were calculated using currently available information; however, the Company is continuing to evaluate the underlying documentation and revisions to the current calculation may occur. 

Effective January 1, 2018, the Act subjects a U.S. shareholder to current tax on global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI) earned by certain foreign subsidiaries. The Company has elected an accounting policy to provide for the tax expense related to the GILTI in the period the tax is incurred. 

10. RETIREMENT FUND AND PROFIT SHARING PLAN 

The Company maintains the Bel Fuse Inc. Employees' Savings Plan, a defined contribution plan that is intended to meet the applicable requirements for tax-qualification under sections 401(a) and (k) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). The expense for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 amounted to $0.3 million in both periods. The expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 amounted to $0.8 million and $0.9 million, respectively. The Company's matching contribution is made in the form of Bel Fuse Inc. Class A common stock. As of September 30, 2018, the plan owned 111,393 and 137,700 shares of Bel Fuse Inc. Class A and Class B common stock, respectively. 

The Company's subsidiaries in Asia have a retirement fund covering substantially all of their Hong Kong based full-time employees. The expense for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 amounted to $0.1 million in both periods. The expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 amounted to $0.3 million in both periods. As of September 30, 2018, the plan owned 3,323 and 17,342 shares of Bel Fuse Inc. Class A and Class B common stock, respectively. 

The Company maintains a SERP, which is designed to provide a limited group of key management and other key employees of the Company with supplemental retirement and death benefits. As discussed in Note 4 above, the Company has investments in a rabbi trust which are intended to fund the obligations of the SERP. 


Return to Index






11. ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE LOSS 



Changes in accumulated other comprehensive loss by component during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 are as follows. All amounts are net of tax. 



Return to Index

12. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES 

Legal Proceedings 

The Company is party to a number of legal actions and claims, none of which individually or in the aggregate, in the opinion of management, are expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated results of operations or financial position. 

In connection with the acquisition of Power Solutions, there is an ongoing claim by the Arezzo Revenue Agency in Italy concerning certain tax matters related to what was then Power-One Asia Pacific Electronics Shenzhen Co. Ltd. (now Bel Power Solutions Asia Pacific Electronics Shenzhen Co. Ltd, or "BPS China") for the years 2004 to 2006. In September 2012, the Tax Court of Arezzo ruled in favor of BPS China and cancelled the claim. In February 2013, the Arezzo Revenue Agency filed an appeal of the Tax Court's ruling. The hearing of the appeal was held on October 2, 2014. On October 13, 2014, BPS China was informed of the Regional Tax Commission of Florence ruling which was in favor of the Arezzo Revenue Agency and against BPS China. An appeal was filed on July 18, 2015 before the Regional Tax Commission of Florence and rejected. On December 5, 2016, the Arezzo Revenue Agency filed an appeal with the Supreme Court and BPS China filed a counter-appeal on January 4, 2017. The Supreme Court has yet to render its judgment. The estimated liability related to this matter is approximately $12.0 million and has been included as a liability for uncertain tax positions on the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets. As Bel is fully indemnified in this matter per the terms of the stock purchase agreement with ABB, a corresponding other asset for indemnification is also included in other assets on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017. 

In 2015, the Company was provided notice of a potential patent infringement claim by Setec Netzwerke AG ("Setec"), a German company for the alleged infringement of their patent EP 306 934 B1. Setec subsequently filed a lawsuit against the Company and three of its subsidiaries in the Regional Court of Dusseldorf, Germany on January 29, 2016 for patent infringement. The Company filed its defense to Setec's Complaint and a nullity lawsuit against Setec's patent on August 31 2016. The Court hearing on infringement took place on March 23, 2017. Upon hearing argument from both parties, the Court issued a decision on April 6, 2017 staying final judgment in the infringement case pending resolution of the nullity lawsuit in the Federal Patents Courts in Munich, Germany. The Federal Patents Courts issued its preliminary opinion regarding the patent-in-suit on March 29, 2018, stating that it considers the patent-in-suit to not be novel over the prior art documents presented in the case. The parties agreed to withdraw from the pending infringement and nullity proceedings and entered into a settlement agreement on June 29, 2018. The Company paid Setec 75,000 Euro in exchange for a perpetual, worldwide royalty-free license to the patent-in-suit and all its counterparts.  

In 2015, one of the Company's subsidiaries in the PRC, Dongguan Transpower Electric Products Co., Ltd. ("Dongguan Transpower"), was provided notice of a claim by DG Yu Shing Industrial Development Company Limited against Dongguan Transpower and three other defendants for past due construction costs of approximately $3.2 million. In April 2018, the 3rd People Court of Dongguan ruled and provided an unfavorable judgment against Dongguan Transpower and two of the other defendants requiring payment of the aforementioned amount. The defendants were held to be jointly and severally liable for approximately $3.2 million in costs. Due to the fact that none of the other defendants had sufficient funds to pay the damages amount, the Court ordered the entire amount (CNY 20,133,174.10) to be paid by Dongguan Transpower. On May 25, 2018, the Court enforced its order and withdrew the damages amount from Dongguan Transpower's bank accounts. On May 31, 2018, Dongguan Transpower filed an action against the other defendants in CP Court to recoup the damages amount paid pursuant to an indemnification letter dated October 16, 2015. The Court heard arguments on July 2, 2018 and rendered a verdict on July 9, 2018 ordering the Jinmei entities (defendants) to pay CNY 20,133,174 back to Dongguan Transpower together with the incurred interest. On August 27, 2018, Dongguan Transpower received payment of CNY 20,430,203 (approximately $3.2 million) from the defendants and this case was closed. 

 On June 1, 2018, the Company filed an action against Unipower, LLC in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York for breach of contract. Specifically, the Company alleges in its Complaint that Unipower has willfully violated the Master Services Agreement ("MSA") entered into by the parties on January 23, 2015 by failing to make payment for the products it contracted for under the MSA. The Company is claiming irreparable harm and substantial damages in excess of $1.0 million. The case is currently in the discovery phase of the litigation. 

The Company is not a party to any other legal proceeding, the adverse outcome of which is likely to have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial condition or results of operations. 




Return to Index


Net Sales – Segment net sales are attributed to individual segments based on the geographic source of the billing for such customer sales. Intercompany sales include finished products manufactured in foreign countries which are then transferred to the United States and Europe for sale; finished goods manufactured in the United States which are transferred to Europe and Asia for sale; and semi-finished components manufactured in the United States which are sold to Asia for further processing. 

Income from operations represents net sales less operating costs and expenses and does not include any amounts related to intercompany transactions. 


On October 1, 2018, the Company completed the acquisition of BCMZ Precision Engineering Limited, a UK manufacturer of precision machined components, for approximately $2.6 million in cash. The final purchase price remains subject to certain adjustments related to working capital. The transaction was funded with cash on hand. The purchase price allocation was still in progress and was not available at the time of filing of this Quarterly Report. 

BCMZ has a diversified portfolio of customers in the automotive, aerospace, defense, telecommunication, fibre-optic and medical industrial sectors and has been a long-term key supplier of precision machined components for our Cinch Connectivity Solutions UK business. BCMZ is additionally expected to give Cinch the capability to continue to support key defense and industrial customers across Europe with localized in-house machining ability. 


Return to Index

Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

The information in this Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A") should be read in conjunction with the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes set forth in Item 1 of Part I of this quarterly report on Form 10-Q, our MD&A set forth in Item 7 of Part II of our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K and our consolidated financial statements and related notes set forth in Item 8 of Part II of our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K. See Part II, Item 1A, "Risk Factors," below and "Cautionary Notice Regarding Forward-Looking Information," above, and the information referenced therein, for a description of risks that we face and important factors that we believe could cause actual results to differ materially from those in our forward-looking statements. All amounts and percentages are approximate due to rounding and all dollars are in millions, except per share amounts or where otherwise noted. When we cross-reference to a "Note," we are referring to our "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements," unless the context indicates otherwise. All amounts noted within the tables are in thousands and amounts and percentages are approximate due to rounding. 

  Overview 

Our Company 

We design, manufacture and market a broad array of products that power, protect and connect electronic circuits. These products are primarily used in the networking, telecommunications, computing, military, aerospace, transportation and broadcasting industries. Bel's portfolio of products also finds application in the automotive, medical and consumer electronics markets. 


Our operating expenses are driven principally by the cost of labor where the factories that Bel uses are located, the cost of the materials that we use and our ability to effectively and efficiently manage overhead costs. As labor and material costs vary by product line and region, any significant shift in product mix can have an associated impact on our costs of sales. Costs are recorded as incurred for all products manufactured. Such amounts are determined based upon the estimated stage of production and include labor cost and fringes and related allocations of factory overhead. Our products are manufactured at various facilities in the U.S., Mexico, Dominican Republic, England, Czech Republic, Slovakia and the PRC. 

We have little visibility into the ordering habits of our customers and we can be subjected to large and unpredictable variations in demand for our products. Accordingly, we must continually recruit and train new workers to replace those lost to attrition and be able to address peaks in demand that may occur from time to time. These recruiting and training efforts and related inefficiencies, and overtime required in order to meet any increase in demand, can add volatility to the labor costs incurred by us. 

Key Factors Affecting our Business 


  ·   Revenues – The Company's revenues increased by $33.8 million, or 9.1%, in the first nine months of 2018 as compared to the same period of 2017, despite a $5.1 million decline in sales related to the NPS divestiture. Sales growth was seen across all of our major product groups as certain project wins from 2017 are in full production and we continue to see strength in sales through our distribution partners.     

  ·   Backlog – Our backlog reached $185.1 million at September 30, 2018, representing an increase of $38.6 million, or 26%, from December 31, 2017. Since year-end, we saw a 65% increase at Magnetic Solutions, driven by a strong position with our integrated connector modules in next-generation switching products. The backlog for our Connectivity Solutions products increased by 21%, driven by recent awards on key military programs, and heightened structured cabling demand for our passive connectors. Our Power Solutions and Protection backlog grew by 9%, led by higher demand for our power supplies for a variety of datacenter applications.     

  ·   Product Mix – Material and labor costs vary by product line and any significant shift in product mix between higher- and lower-margin product lines will have a corresponding impact on the Company's gross margin percentage. In general, our connectivity products have the highest contribution margins, our magnetic products are more labor intensive and are therefore less profitable than the connectivity products and our power products are on the lower end of our profit margin range, due to their high material content. Fluctuations in sales volume among our product groups will have a corresponding impact on Bel's profit margins.     


Return to Index

  ·   Pricing and Availability of Materials – There have been recent supply constraints related to components that constitute raw materials in our manufacturing processes, particularly with resistors, capacitors, mosfets and printed circuit boards. Lead times have been extended and the reduction in supply has also caused an increase in prices for certain of these components. As a result, the Company's material costs as a percentage of sales increased to 42.0% during the first nine months of 2018 from 39.7% during the first nine months of 2017.       

  ·   Labor Costs – Labor costs during the first nine months of 2018 increased from 10.4% of sales during the first nine months of 2017 to 11.5% of sales during the first nine months of 2018, primarily due to the appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. Dollar, particularly during the first half of 2018, minimum wage increases in the PRC, and growth in sales of our labor-intensive integrated connector module (ICM) products. Effective February 1, 2018, the PRC government issued an increase to the minimum wage in a region where one of Bel's factories is located. Effective July 1, 2018, government-mandated minimum wage increases went into effect at Bel's other three manufacturing facilities in the PRC.     


  ·   Impact of Foreign Currency – During the first nine months of 2018, the Company incurred foreign exchange transactional gains of $2.4 million and higher labor and overhead costs of $2.5 million related to unfavorable fluctuation in exchange rates versus the first nine months of 2017. Since we are a U.S. domiciled company, we translate our foreign currency-denominated financial results into U.S. dollars. Due to the changes in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar, translating our financial results and the revaluation of certain intercompany as well as third-party transactions to and from foreign currencies to U.S. dollars may result in a favorable or unfavorable impact to our consolidated statements of operations and cash flows. The Company was unfavorably impacted by transactional foreign exchange losses during the first nine months of 2018 due to the appreciation of the Euro, Pound, and Renminbi against the U.S. dollar as compared to exchange rates in effect during the first nine months of 2017. The Company has significant manufacturing operations located in the PRC where labor and overhead costs are paid in local currency. As a result, the U.S. Dollar equivalent costs of these operations were $2.5 million higher in the first nine months of 2018. The Company monitors changes in foreign currencies and may implement pricing actions to help mitigate the impact that changes in foreign currencies may have on its consolidated operating results.     

  ·   Effective Tax Rate – The Company's effective tax rate will fluctuate based on the geographic segment in which our pretax profits are earned. Of the geographic segments in which we operate, the U.S. and Europe's tax rates are generally equivalent; and Asia has the lowest tax rates of the Company's three geographical segments. See Note 9, "Income Taxes".     

Our third quarter 2018 bookings reached its highest quarterly amount in the last four years, representing a 28% increase from the third quarter of last year. This growth in orders received was seen across all of our major product groups, and is an encouraging data point for our top line as we look to 2019. On the cost side, higher labor and material costs have had a more visible impact on our margins this quarter as the cost of finished goods that were sold during the quarter were impacted by both higher raw material costs and increased minimum wage rates associated with production labor in the PRC. Sales growth and price stabilization will help to mitigate these margin pressures. We continue to evaluate opportunities to grow our business through acquisitions that would provide access to new markets and customers while being accretive to the overall business. 

Summary by Operating Segment 



The growth in North America sales in 2018 was largely due to increased demand for our passive connector products from our premise wiring customers, strength in our connectivity products within key military programs, and higher sales of our transformer products into medical applications. Sales of our Power Solutions products have also increased in 2018 with heightened demand for our power supplies for use in various datacenter applications. The increases in Asia sales noted above for the 2018 periods primarily relate to higher sales of our integrated connector modules for next-generation switching platforms. Sales in Europe increased in both 2018 periods presented as a result of higher demand for our Stewart and Cinch connector products in that region, coupled with strong sales of our power products into rail applications. There was also a favorable impact on our European sales in general during the nine-month period ended September 30, 2018 as a portion of those sales are invoiced in Euros or Pounds, which had appreciated against the U.S. Dollar particularly during the first half of 2018 as compared to the same period of 2017. 


Return to Index

Net sales and income from operations by operating segment for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 were as follows. Segment net sales are attributed to individual segments based on the geographic source of the billing for customer sales. 


The improvement in income from operations within our North America segment was largely due to higher sales volumes in the 2018 periods, partially offset by increased material costs on purchased components. The income from operations at our Asia segment for both 2018 periods presented was impacted by higher labor costs driven by increased minimum wage rates at our factories in the PRC, higher raw material costs during 2018 and the unfavorable appreciation of the Renminbi particularly during the first half of 2018 compared to the same period of 2017. The increase in income from operations from our Europe segment are consistent with the increase in sales for that segment. 

Net Sales 




Return to Index


Our Magnetic Solutions group continued to benefit from a strong position on next-generation switching products which utilize our integrated connector modules. This accounted for $7.5 million and $11.4 million of the sales growth during the third quarter and nine-month period of 2018 versus 2017. Our Signal Transformer business also contributed with an increase in sales of $1.6 million and $3.2 million during the third quarter and nine-month period of 2018, as orders from new programs within industrial applications remained strong throughout the third quarter. 


Our connectivity solutions products showed an overall improvement in sales of $5.7 million and $12.0 million during the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, respectively, compared to the same periods of 2017. Sales of our Stewart passive connectors were very strong in the 2018 periods with increases of $3.6 million and $7.1 million during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to 2017. This was largely led by higher demand from our premise wiring customers in North America and Europe in response to improved economic conditions in the construction industry. We have also had a greater level of focus on our distribution channel in 2018 and our Stewart products have benefited from the increased exposure through our distribution base. Sales of our Cinch products were also up in 2018 (by $2.1 million for the third quarter and by $5.0 million for the nine-month period) primarily from the military sector for our optical and copper products used in encryption, communications and flight-grade applications and for our micro-miniature copper connectivity products in relation to key defense programs. 



Cost of Sales 



Material costs as a percentage of sales increased during the 2018 periods noted above compared to the same periods of 2017 primarily due to industry-wide supply constraints related to certain of our purchased components throughout 2018. This has had an unfavorable impact in the form of higher material costs across most of our product lines. 

Labor costs as a percentage of sales also increased during the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 compared to the same periods of 2017 due primarily to two factors. Effective February 1, 2018, the PRC issued an increase to the minimum wage in a region where one of Bel's factories is located, and effective July 1, 2018, minimum wage increases went into effect at our remaining facilities in the PRC. This contributed to the higher labor costs in both 2018 periods presented above. The other factor impacting the nine-month period above relates to the appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. Dollar, particularly during the first half of 2018. This drove labor costs as a percentage of sales higher during the earlier part of 2018, as the majority of our Asia sales are invoiced in U.S. Dollars, while our manufacturing staff at PRC locations are paid in local currency. 



Return to Index

The other expenses noted in the table above include fixed cost items such as support labor and fringe, depreciation and amortization, and facility costs (rent, utilities, insurance). In total, these other expenses increased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 by $1.1 million and $3.1 million, respectively, as compared to the same periods of 2017. This included higher support labor costs of $1.5 million and $3.0 million, respectively, partially offset by lower depreciation and amortization expense of $0.4 million and $0.9 million during the three and nine-month periods ending September 30, 2018 as compared to the same periods of 2017. 



Provision for Income Taxes 

The Company's effective tax rate will fluctuate based on the geographic segment in which the pretax profits are earned. Of the geographic segments in which the Company operates, the U.S. and Europe's tax rates are generally equivalent; and Asia has the lowest tax rates of the Company's three geographical segments. See Note 9, "Income Taxes". 

The (benefit) provision for income taxes for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 was ($2.2) million and less than $0.1 million, respectively. The Company's earnings before income taxes for the three months ended September 30, 2018, were approximately $4.1 million higher than the same period in 2017, primarily attributable to significantly higher earnings in the North America and Asia segments. The Company's effective tax rate was (24.1%) and 1.2% for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The change in the effective tax rate during the three months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to the same period in 2017, is primarily attributable to a decrease in tax expense in the North America segment due to the reduction in the estimated transition tax on post 1986 untaxed accumulated foreign earnings, a reduction in the U.S. tax rate from 35% in 2017 to 21% in 2018, as well as a decrease in the taxes related to uncertain tax positions. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in U.S. taxes relating to income from foreign subsidiaries taxed in the U.S. as part of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. See Note 9, "Income Taxes." 

The provision for income taxes for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 was $0.5 million and $2.3 million, respectively. The Company's earnings before income taxes for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 were approximately $6.0 million higher than the same period in 2017, primarily attributable to increases in income in the Europe and North America segments. The Company's effective tax rate was 3.0% and 20.8% for the nine month periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The change in the effective tax rate during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to the same period of 2017, is primarily attributable to a decrease in tax expense in the North America segment due to the reduction in the estimated transition tax on post 1986 untaxed accumulated foreign earnings, a reduction in the U.S. tax rate from 35% in 2017 to 21% in 2018, as well as a decrease in taxes related to uncertain tax positions. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in U.S. taxes relating to income from foreign subsidiaries taxed in the U.S. as part of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Additionally, the decrease in the effective tax rate for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to the same period in 2017, is attributable to U.S. and foreign taxes accrued for gains recognized on a Bel Fuse legal entity restructuring transaction during the 2017 period. 

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

Our primary sources of cash are the collection of trade receivables generated from the sales of our products and services to our customers and amounts available under our existing lines of credit, including our credit facility. Our primary uses of cash are payments for operating expenses, investments in working capital, capital expenditures, interest, taxes, dividends, debt obligations and other long-term liabilities. We believe that our current liquidity position and future cash flows from operations will enable us to fund our operations, including all of the items mentioned above in the next twelve months. 


Return to Index


Cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and accounts receivable comprised approximately 33.9% of the Company's total assets at September 30, 2018 and 34.4% of total assets at December 31, 2017. The Company's current ratio (i.e., the ratio of current assets to current liabilities) was 2.9 to 1 at September 30, 2018 and 3.0 to 1 at December 31, 2017. 

In June 2014, the Company entered into a senior Credit and Security Agreement, which was subsequently amended in March 2016, and further amended and refinanced in December 2017. The Credit and Security Agreement contains customary representations and warranties, covenants and events of default and financial covenants that measure (i) the ratio of the Company's total funded indebtedness, on a consolidated basis, to the amount of the Company's consolidated EBITDA, as defined ("Leverage Ratio"), and (ii) the ratio of the amount of the Company's consolidated EBITDA to the Company's consolidated fixed charges ("Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio"). If an event of default occurs, the lenders under the Credit and Security Agreement would be entitled to take various actions, including the acceleration of amounts due thereunder and all actions permitted to be taken by a secured creditor. At September 30, 2018, the Company was in compliance with its debt covenants, including its most restrictive covenant, the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio. The unused credit available under the credit facility at September 30, 2018 was $75.0 million, of which we had the ability to borrow $34.1 million without violating our Leverage Ratio covenant based on the Company's existing consolidated EBITDA. 


Cash Flows 

Nine months Ended September 30, 2018 


  ·   purchases of property, plant and equipment of $8.8 million;     

  ·   repayments of long-term debt of $8.3 million; and     

  ·   dividend payments of $2.4 million; partially offset by     

  ·   net cash provided by operations of $4.2 million.     

During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, accounts receivable increased by $19.0 million primarily due to higher sales volume in the third quarter of 2018 as compared to the fourth quarter of 2017. Days sales outstanding (DSO) increased to 61 days at September 30, 2018 from 60 days at December 31, 2017. Effective January 1, 2018, the Company implemented a change in the timing of revenue recognition (and related release of inventory from our books) in connection with the adoption of ASC 606, as described in Note 2. Excluding the adoption adjustment related to this accounting change, inventory increased by $20.1 million at September 30, 2018 compared to December 31, 2017, primarily in raw materials. The increased raw materials balance was driven by a higher volume of raw materials purchased to accommodate increased demand for our products, coupled with higher material costs in 2018 resulting from constraints in component availability. Inventory turns increased from 3.6 at December 31, 2017 to 4.0 at September 30, 2018, primarily due to the change in revenue recognition accounting noted above. 


Return to Index

Nine months Ended September 30, 2017 


  ·   purchases of property, plant and equipment of $3.8 million;     

  ·   dividend payments of $2.3 million; and     

  ·   repayments of long-term debt of $25.2 million; partially offset by     

  ·   net cash provided by operating activities of $14.2 million; and     

  ·   net borrowings under our revolving credit line of $4.0 million     

During the nine months ended September 30, 2017, accounts receivable increased by $7.9 million primarily due to higher sales volume in the third quarter of 2017 as compared to the fourth quarter of 2016. Days sales outstanding (DSO) increased to 60 days at September 30, 2017 from 54 days at December 31, 2016, primary due the extension of credit terms with one of our large customers, as well as the increase in revenue (and resulting accounts receivable balance) in our Asia segment where DSO tends to be higher as compared to our other geographic segments. Inventory levels were up by $3.3 million at September 30, 2017 compared to December 31, 2016 as work in progress and finished goods balances increased from year-end levels to accommodate the increase in demand for our products in 2017. 

Critical Accounting Policies 

Management's discussion and analysis of Bel's financial condition and results of operations are based upon the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires the Company to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, including those related to product returns, bad debts, inventories, goodwill, intangible assets, investments, warranties, SERP expense, income taxes and contingencies and litigation. The Company bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. 

Recent Accounting Pronouncements 

The discussion of new financial accounting standards applicable to the Company is incorporated herein by reference to Note 1 to the Company's Financial Statements, "Basis of Presentation and Accounting Policies," included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 

Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

The Company is exposed to market risk primarily from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and changes in interest rates associated with its long-term debt. During the first nine months of 2018, the U.S. Dollar was in a weakened position (compared to the first nine months of 2017) against most other currencies in which the Company pays its expenses. In comparing average exchange rates during the first nine months of 2018 versus those during the first nine months of 2017, the Euro appreciated by 7%, the Pound appreciated by 6%, and the Renminbi appreciated by 4% against the U.S. Dollar. The Company estimates that the appreciation in these foreign currencies led to $2.5 million in higher operating costs for the nine-month period as the majority of our expenses in the PRC, Europe and Mexico are paid in local currency. In addition to the foreign exchange losses recognized, the Company recorded foreign exchange gains of $1.5 million and $2.4 million during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, on remeasurement of foreign currency transactions. This compares to foreign exchange losses recorded during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 of $0.6 million and $2.7 million, respectively, resulting from remeasurement of foreign currency transactions. Refer to Item 7A, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 for further discussion of market risks. 

Item 4. Controls and Procedures 



Return to Index


PART II. Other Information 

Item 1. Legal Proceedings 

The information called for by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to Note 12 of the Company's Financial Statements, under "Legal Proceedings", as set forth in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We are also involved in various other legal actions incidental to our business. We believe, after consulting with counsel, that the disposition of these other legal proceedings and matters will not have a material effect on our condensed consolidated financial condition or results of operations. 

Item 1A. Risk Factors 

See Part I, Item 1A, "Risk Factors," of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017. Except as required by the federal securities law, we undertake no obligation to update or revise any risk factor, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 

Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds 



Pursuant to the Bel Fuse Inc. Employees' Savings Plan (the "Employees' Savings Plan"), the Company makes matching contributions of pre-tax elective deferral contributions made by associates. The Employees' Savings Plan provides for matching contributions to be invested in shares of the Company's Class A Common Stock. The trustees of the Employees' Savings Plan adopted a "10b5-1 Plan," in accordance with guidelines specified by Rule 10b5-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, to make open market purchases of shares of Class A Common Stock with such matching contributions. The purchases in the table above were made under the 10b5-1 Plan. The maximum dollar amount for cumulative purchases under the 10b5-1 Plan during the plan period (August 20, 2018 to November 30, 2018) will not exceed $650,000.  

Item 5. Other Information

As previously disclosed, on August 16, 2018, the trustees of the Employees' Savings Plan adopted a plan (the "10b5-1 Plan") in accordance with guidelines specified by Rule 10b5-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, pursuant to which KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc. was engaged to purchase shares of the Class A common stock of Bel Fuse Inc. ("Bel") to implement the Employees' Savings Plan's requirements that matching contributions be invested in shares of Bel's Class A common stock. While it was originally expected that purchases under the 10b5-1 Plan would be completed by November 30, 2018, as a sufficient number of shares of Class A common stock have been purchased already to meet the requirements of the "match" for 2018, the 10b5-1 Plan was terminated effective November 7, 2018.  


Return to Index





Return to Index

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 


