

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION



þQUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the quarterly period ended March 31, 2019

or

¨TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from  to  .


Blackbaud, Inc.





Charleston, South Carolina 29492




Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. 

YES þ NO ¨

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (Section 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files).

YES þ NO ¨

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company,” and "emerging growth company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.


If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ¨

Indicate by check mark whether registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).

YES ¨ NO þ


The number of shares of the registrant’s Common Stock outstanding as of April 24, 2019 was 49,186,460.

First Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q1
Blackbaud, Inc.

 CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, including the documents incorporated herein by reference, contains forward-looking statements that anticipate results based on our estimates, assumptions and plans that are subject to uncertainty. These "forward-looking statements" are made subject to the safe-harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements consist of, among other things, trend analyses, statements regarding future events, future financial performance, our anticipated growth, the effect of general economic and market conditions, our business strategy and our plan to build and grow our business, our operating results, our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses and technologies, the effect of foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations on our financial results, the impact of expensing stock-based compensation, the sufficiency of our capital resources, our ability to meet our ongoing debt and obligations as they become due, and potential litigation involving us, all of which are based on current expectations, estimates, and forecasts, and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. Words such as “believes,” “seeks,” “expects,” “may,” “might,” “should,” “intends,” “could,” “would,” “likely,” “will,” “targets,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “aims,” “projects,” “estimates” or any variations of such words and similar expressions are also intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Accordingly, they should not be viewed as assurances of future performance, and actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements.

Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations expressed in forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those summarized under “Item 1A. Risk factors” and elsewhere in this report, in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 and in our other SEC filings. Forward-looking statements represent our management's beliefs and assumptions only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.

2First Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q

 PART I. FINANCIAL INFORMATION

ITEM 1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


First Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q3


4First Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q




First Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q5

Blackbaud, Inc.

Consolidated statements of stockholders' equity




6First Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q
Blackbaud, Inc.

Notes to consolidated financial statements



We are the world’s leading cloud software company powering social good. Serving the entire social good community—nonprofits, foundations, companies, education institutions, healthcare organizations and individual change agents—we connect and empower organizations to increase their impact through cloud software, services, expertise and data intelligence. Our portfolio is tailored to the unique needs of vertical markets, with solutions for fundraising and CRM, marketing, advocacy, peer-to-peer fundraising, corporate social responsibility, school management, ticketing, grantmaking, financial management, payment processing and analytics. Serving the industry for more than three decades, we are headquartered in Charleston, South Carolina and have operations in the United States, Australia, Canada, Costa Rica and the United Kingdom.

2. Basis of Presentation

Unaudited interim consolidated financial statements

The accompanying interim consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") for interim financial reporting. These consolidated statements are unaudited and, in the opinion of management, include all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring adjustments and accruals) necessary to state fairly the consolidated balance sheets, consolidated statements of comprehensive income, consolidated statements of cash flows and consolidated statement of stockholders’ equity, for the periods presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("U.S.") ("GAAP"). The consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2018, has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements at that date. Operating results and cash flows for the three months ended March 31, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2019, or any other future period. Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in annual financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been omitted in accordance with the rules and regulations for interim reporting of the SEC. These interim consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, and other forms filed with the SEC from time to time.

Basis of consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Blackbaud, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

Reportable segment

We report our operating results and financial information in one operating and reportable segment. Our chief operating decision maker uses consolidated financial information to make operating decisions, assess financial performance and allocate resources. Our chief operating decision maker is our chief executive officer ("CEO").

Recently adopted accounting pronouncements

In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) ("ASU 2016-02"). ASU 2016-02 requires lessees to record most leases on their balance sheet but recognize expenses in the income statement in a manner similar to previous guidance. The way in which entities classify leases determines how to recognize lease-related revenue and expense.


First Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q7
Blackbaud, Inc.

Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued)


to use the hindsight practical expedient, which permits entities to use hindsight in determining the lease term and assessing impairment. Additionally, we elected not to apply the recognition requirements of the new lease accounting standard to short-term leases. Adopting ASU 2016-02 had a material impact on our consolidated balance sheet as of January 1, 2019, as we recognized $121.6 million of lease liabilities and $113.4 million of right-of-use ("ROU") assets for those leases classified as operating leases.

Summary of significant accounting policies

Except for the accounting policy added for leases below as a result of adopting ASU 2016-02, there have been no changes to our significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on February 20, 2019, that have had a material impact on our consolidated financial statement. 

Leases

We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception. Operating leases are included in operating lease ROU assets, accrued expense and other current liabilities, and operating lease liabilities, net of current portion in our consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2019.

ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease. Operating lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at the commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term. As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments. We use the implicit rate when readily determinable. The operating lease ROU asset also includes any initial direct costs and lease payments made and excludes lease incentives. Our lease terms may include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option. Lease expense for lease payments related to our operating leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. We have lease agreements with lease and non-lease components, which are generally accounted for separately. We do not recognize short-term leases (those that, at the commencement date, have a lease term of 12 months or less) on our consolidated balance sheets.


YourCause acquisition

On January 2, 2019, we acquired all of the outstanding equity securities, including all voting equity interests, of YourCause Holdings, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ("YourCause"), pursuant to a purchase agreement and plan of merger. The acquisition expands our footprint in corporate social responsibility and employee engagement and enhances our position as a leader in providing solutions to both nonprofit organizations and for-profit companies committed to addressing social issues. We acquired the equity securities for an aggregate purchase price of $157.7 million in cash, subject to certain adjustments set forth in the agreement and plan of merger. The purchase price and related expenses were funded primarily through borrowings under the 2017 Credit Facility (as defined below). As a result of the acquisition, YourCause has become a wholly-owned subsidiary of ours. The operating results of YourCause have been included in our consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. During the three months ended March 31, 2019, we incurred insignificant acquisition-related expenses associated with the acquisition, which were recorded in general and administrative expense.

8First Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q
Blackbaud, Inc.

Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued)


The fair values assigned to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the table below are based on our best estimates and assumptions as of the reporting date and are considered preliminary pending finalization. The estimates and assumptions are subject to change as we obtain additional information during the measurement period, which may be up to one year from the acquisition date. The assets and liabilities, pending finalization, include the valuation of intangible assets as well as the assumed deferred revenue and deferred income tax balances.


The estimated fair value of accounts receivable acquired approximates the contractual value of $4.1 million and $54.7 million of the goodwill arising in the acquisition is deductible for income tax purposes. The estimated goodwill recognized is attributable primarily to the opportunities for expected synergies from combining the operations and assembled workforce of YourCause.



The estimated fair values of the intangible assets were based on variations of the income approach, which estimates fair value based upon the present value of cash flows that the assets are expected to generate, and which included the relief-from-royalty method, incremental cash flow method, including the comparative (with and without) method and multi-period excess earnings method, depending on the intangible asset being valued. The method of amortization of identifiable finite-lived intangible assets is based on the expected pattern in which the estimated economic benefits of the respective assets are consumed or otherwise used up. Customer relationships and acquired technology assets are being amortized on an accelerated basis. Marketing assets are being amortized on a straight-line basis. The non-compete agreements were fully amortized as of March 31, 2019, based on the insignificance of the acquired assets.

We determined that the impact of this acquisition was not material to our consolidated financial statements; therefore, separate presentation of revenue and earnings since the acquisition date and pro forma information are not required nor included herein.

First Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q9
Blackbaud, Inc.

Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued)


4. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets



5. (Loss) Earnings Per Share

We compute basic earnings (loss) per share by dividing net income available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings (loss) per share is computed by dividing net income available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares and dilutive potential common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings (loss) per share reflect the assumed exercise, settlement and vesting of all dilutive securities using the “treasury stock method” except when the effect is anti-dilutive. Potentially dilutive securities consist of shares issuable upon the exercise of stock options, settlement of stock appreciation rights and vesting of restricted stock awards and units. Diluted loss per share for the three months ended March 31, 2019 is the same as basic loss per share as there is a net loss in the period and inclusion of potentially dilutive securities is anti-dilutive.



10First Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q
Blackbaud, Inc.

Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued)


6. Fair Value Measurements


•Level 1 - Quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets; 

•Level 2 - Quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets in markets that are not active, and model-derived valuations in which all significant inputs and significant value drivers are observable in active markets; and

•Level 3 - Valuations derived from valuation techniques in which one or more significant inputs are unobservable.

Recurring fair value measurements



Our derivative instruments within the scope of Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 815, Derivatives and Hedging, are required to be recorded at fair value. Our derivative instruments that are recorded at fair value include interest rate swaps.

The fair value of our interest rate swaps was based on model-driven valuations using LIBOR rates, which are observable at commonly quoted intervals. Accordingly, our interest rate swaps are classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.

We believe the carrying amounts of our cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash due to customers, accounts receivable, trade accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities and due to customers approximate their fair values at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, due to the immediate or short-term maturity of these instruments.

First Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q11
Blackbaud, Inc.

Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued)


We believe the carrying amount of our debt approximates its fair value at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, as the debt bears interest rates that approximate market value. As LIBOR rates are observable at commonly quoted intervals, our debt is classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.

We did not transfer any assets or liabilities among the levels within the fair value hierarchy during the three months ended March 31, 2019. Additionally, we did not hold any Level 3 assets or liabilities during the three months ended March 31, 2019.

Non-recurring fair value measurements

Assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis include intangible assets, goodwill and operating lease ROU assets, which are recognized at fair value during the period in which an acquisition is completed or at lease commencement, from updated estimates and assumptions during the measurement period, or when they are considered to be impaired. These non-recurring fair value measurements, primarily for intangible assets acquired and operating lease ROU assets, are based on Level 3 unobservable inputs. In the event of an impairment, we determine the fair value of the intangible assets other than goodwill using a discounted cash flow approach, which contains significant unobservable inputs and, therefore, is considered a Level 3 fair value measurement. The unobservable inputs in the analysis generally include future cash flow projections and a discount rate. For goodwill impairment testing, we estimate fair value using market-based methods including the use of market capitalization and consideration of a control premium. 

During the three months ended March 31, 2019, we recorded $1.3 million in impairments of operating lease ROU assets associated with certain leased office spaces we ceased using as part of our facilities optimization restructuring. These impairments were recorded as restructuring expense on our consolidated statements of comprehensive income. See Note 15 to these consolidated financial statements for additional details regarding our facilities optimization restructuring.

There were no non-recurring fair value adjustments to intangible assets and goodwill during the three months ended March 31, 2019.

7. Consolidated Financial Statement Details

Prepaid expenses and other assets



12First Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q
Blackbaud, Inc.

Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued)


Accrued expenses and other liabilities



The following table summarizes our debt balances and the related weighted average effective interest rates, which includes the effect of interest rate swap agreements.




First Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q13
Blackbaud, Inc.

Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued)


Financing for 2019 acquisition

On January 2, 2019, we acquired YourCause for $157.7 million in cash, subject to certain adjustments set forth in the agreement and plan of merger. We financed the acquisition with a revolving credit loan under the 2017 Credit Facility.


Cash flow hedges

We generally use derivative instruments to manage our variable interest rate risk. In July 2017, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement (the "July 2017 Swap Agreement"), which effectively converts portions of our variable rate debt under our credit facility to a fixed rate for the term of the July 2017 Swap Agreement. The notional value of the July 2017 Swap Agreement was $150.0 million with an effective date beginning in July 2017 through July 2021. We designated the July 2017 Swap Agreement as a cash flow hedge at the inception of the contract.

In February 2018, we entered into an additional interest rate swap agreement (the "February 2018 Swap Agreement"), which effectively converts portions of our variable rate debt under our credit facility to a fixed rate for the term of the February 2018 Swap Agreement. The notional value of the February 2018 Swap Agreement was $50.0 million with an effective date beginning in February 2018 through June 2021. We designated the February 2018 Swap Agreement as a cash flow hedge at the inception of the contract.





Our policy requires that derivatives used for hedging purposes be designated and effective as a hedge of the identified risk exposure at the inception of the contract. Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) includes unrealized gains or losses from the change in fair value measurement of our derivative instruments each reporting period and the related income tax expense or benefit. Changes in the fair value measurements of the derivative instruments and the related income tax expense or benefit are reflected as adjustments to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) until the actual hedged expense is incurred or until the hedge is terminated at which point the unrealized gain (loss) is reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to current earnings. The estimated accumulated other comprehensive income as of March 31, 2019 that is expected to be reclassified into earnings within the next twelve months is $0.7 million. There were no ineffective portions of our interest rate swap derivatives during the three months ended March 31, 2019 

14First Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q
Blackbaud, Inc.

Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued)


and 2018. See Note 13 to these consolidated financial statements for a summary of the changes in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) by component.

10. Commitments and Contingencies 

Leases

We have operating leases for corporate offices, subleased offices and certain equipment and furniture. Our leases have remaining lease terms of less than 1 year to 20 years, some of which include options to extend the leases for up to 5 years. We do not have lease agreements with residual value guarantees, sale leaseback terms or material restrictive covenants.

In May 2016, we entered into a lease agreement for our New Headquarters Facility in Charleston, South Carolina. There are two phases for construction of the New Headquarters Facility. Phase One included a building with approximately 172,000 rentable square feet, which we began using in April 2018. The lease agreement also grants us a Phase Two option to request that the landlord construct and lease to us a second office building and related improvements. The lease agreement expires in April 2038 and provides for four renewal periods of five years each at a base rent equal to the then prevailing market rate for comparable buildings.

We continue to lease our former headquarters facility, now called our Customer Operations Center, in Charleston, South Carolina. The lease expires in October 2023 and has two five-year renewal options. We also have a lease for office space in Austin, Texas which expires in September 2023 and has two five-year renewal options.

For each of the leases discussed above, we have not included the renewal options in the lease terms for calculating the lease liability as the renewal options allow us to maintain operational flexibility and we are not reasonably certain we will exercise these options at this time.

As of March 31, 2019, we had additional operating leases, primarily for office space, that have not yet commenced with future rent payments of $9.3 million. These operating leases will commence during fiscal year 2019 with lease terms of two to four years.





During the three months ended March 31, 2019, we recorded $1.3 million in impairments of operating lease ROU assets associated with certain leased office spaces we ceased using as part of our facilities optimization restructuring. These impairments were recorded as restructuring expense on our consolidated statements of comprehensive income. See Note 15 to these consolidated financial statements for additional details regarding our facilities optimization restructuring.

Total rent expense as determined under ASC 840 for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was $4.5 million.

First Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q15
Blackbaud, Inc.

Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued)











16First Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q
Blackbaud, Inc.

Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued)




Other commitments

The term loans under the 2017 Credit Facility require periodic principal payments. The balance of the term loans and any amounts drawn on the revolving credit loans are due upon maturity of the 2017 Credit Facility in June 2022.

We have contractual obligations for third-party technology used in our solutions and for other services we purchase as part of our normal operations. In certain cases, these arrangements require a minimum annual purchase commitment by us. As of March 31, 2019, the remaining aggregate minimum purchase commitment under these arrangements was approximately $111.4 million through 2023.

Solution and service indemnifications

In the ordinary course of business, we provide certain indemnifications of varying scope to customers against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our solutions or services. If we determine that it is probable that a loss has been incurred related to solution or service indemnifications, any such loss that could be reasonably estimated would be recognized. We have not identified any losses and, accordingly, we have not recorded a liability related to these indemnifications.

Legal proceedings

We are subject to legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business. We make a provision for a loss contingency when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. These provisions are reviewed at least quarterly and adjusted to reflect the impacts of negotiations, settlements, rulings, advice of legal counsel and other information and events pertaining to a particular case. Unless otherwise specifically disclosed in this note, we have determined as of March 31, 2019, that no provision for liability nor disclosure is required related to any claim against us because (a) there is not a reasonable possibility that a loss exceeding amounts already recognized (if any) may be incurred with respect to such claim; (b) a reasonably possible loss or range of loss cannot be estimated; or (c) such estimate is immaterial.

All legal costs associated with litigation are expensed as incurred. Litigation is inherently unpredictable. However, we believe that we have valid defenses with respect to the legal matters pending against us. It is possible, nevertheless, that our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be negatively affected in any particular period by an unfavorable resolution of one or more of such proceedings, claims or investigations.

First Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q17
Blackbaud, Inc.

Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued)





We compute the year-to-date income tax provision by applying the estimated annual effective tax rate to the year-to-date pre-tax income or loss and adjusting for discrete tax items in the period. Our effective income tax rate can be more or less volatile based on the amount of pre-tax income or loss. For example, the impact of discrete items and non-deductible expenses on our effective tax rate is greater when our pre-tax income is lower. The increase in our effective income tax rate during the three months ended March 31, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018, was partially attributable to the impact of discrete tax benefits on a pre-tax loss for the quarter as compared to pre-tax income for the same period in 2018.

The increase in our effective income tax rate during the three months ended March 31, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018, was also due to a decrease in the discrete benefit to income tax expense relating to stock-based compensation. The impact was attributable to a decrease in the market price for shares of our common stock, when compared to the same period in 2018, as reported by the Nasdaq Stock Market LLC ("Nasdaq"). Most of our equity awards are granted during our first quarter and vest in subsequent years during the same quarter. 




18First Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q
Blackbaud, Inc.

Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued)



Dividends

Our Board of Directors has adopted a dividend policy, which provides for the distribution to stockholders of a portion of cash generated by us that is in excess of operational needs and capital expenditures. The 2017 Credit Facility limits the amount of dividends payable and certain state laws restrict the amount of dividends distributed.

In February 2019, our Board of Directors approved an annual dividend rate of $0.48 per share to be made in quarterly payments. Dividend payments are not guaranteed and our Board of Directors may decide, in its absolute discretion, at any time and for any reason, not to declare and pay further dividends. The following table provides information with respect to quarterly dividends of $0.12 per share paid on common stock during the three months ended March 31, 2019.


On April 30, 2019, our Board of Directors declared a second quarter dividend of $0.12 per share payable on June 14, 2019 to stockholders of record on May 28, 2019.

Changes in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) by component



First Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q19
Blackbaud, Inc.

Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued)



Transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations

As of March 31, 2019, approximately $739 million of revenue is expected to be recognized from remaining performance obligations. We expect to recognize revenue on approximately 60% of these remaining performance obligations over the next 12 months, with the remainder recognized thereafter.

We applied the practical expedient in ASC 606-10-50-14 and have excluded the value of unsatisfied performance obligations for (i) contracts with an original expected length of one year or less (one-time services); and (ii) contracts for which we recognize revenue at the amount to which we have the right to invoice for services performed (payment services and usage).

Contract balances



The modest decrease in deferred revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2019 was primarily due to less customer contract renewals in our first quarter due to the timing of customer budget cycles. Historically, we have an increase in customer contract renewals near the beginning of our third quarter resulting in lower deferred revenue at the end of our first quarter. The amount of revenue recognized during the three months ended March 31, 2019 that was included in the deferred revenue balance at the beginning of the period was approximately $131 million. The amount of revenue recognized during the three months ended March 31, 2019 from performance obligations satisfied in prior periods was insignificant.

Disaggregation of revenue




•The GMG focuses on sales primarily to all K-12 private schools, faith-based and arts and cultural organizations, as well as emerging and mid-sized prospects in the U.S.;


•The IMG focuses on sales primarily to all prospects and customers outside of the U.S.

20First Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q
Blackbaud, Inc.

Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued)






During 2017, in an effort to further our organizational objectives, including improved operating efficiency, customer outcomes and employee satisfaction, we initiated a multi-year plan to consolidate and relocate some of our existing offices to highly modern and more collaborative workspaces with short-term financial commitments. These workspaces are also more centrally located for our employees and closer to our customers and prospects. Restructuring costs incurred prior to our adoption of ASU 2016-02 on January 1, 2019 consisted primarily of costs to terminate lease agreements, contractual lease payments, net of estimated sublease income, upon vacating space as part of the plan, as well as insignificant costs to relocate affected employees and write-off facilities-related fixed assets that we would no longer use.

Upon adoption of ASU 2016-02 at January 1, 2019, we reduced our operating lease ROU assets recognized at transition by the carrying amounts of the restructuring liabilities for certain leased office spaces that we ceased using prior to December 31, 2018. See additional details below.

Restructuring costs incurred during the three months ended March 31, 2019 consisted primarily of operating lease ROU asset impairment costs and, to a lesser extent, write-offs of facilities-related fixed assets that we will no longer use.

We currently expect to incur before-tax restructuring costs associated with these activities of between $8.5 million and $9.5 million, of which $7.3 million has been incurred as of March 31, 2019, with substantially all of the remaining costs expected to be incurred by the end of 2019.




First Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q21
Blackbaud, Inc.

Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued)






22First Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q
Blackbaud, Inc.

ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The following discussion and analysis presents financial information denominated in millions of dollars which can lead to differences from rounding when compared to similar information contained in the consolidated financial statements and related notes which are primarily denominated in thousands of dollars.

Executive Summary

We are the world’s leading cloud software company powering social good. Serving the entire social good community—nonprofits, foundations, companies, education institutions, healthcare organizations and individual change agents—we connect and empower organizations to increase their impact through cloud software, services, expertise and data intelligence. Our portfolio is tailored to the unique needs of vertical markets, with solutions for fundraising and CRM, marketing, advocacy, peer-to-peer fundraising, corporate social responsibility, school management, ticketing, grantmaking, financial management, payment processing and analytics. Serving the industry for more than three decades, we are headquartered in Charleston, South Carolina and have operations in the United States, Australia, Canada, Costa Rica and the United Kingdom.



Four-Point Growth Strategy

1.Deliver Integrated and Open Solutions in the Cloud

During the first quarter of 2019, we announced the U.S. launch of Blackbaud Peer-to-Peer Fundraising, powered by JustGiving. This new solution enables all social good organizations to empower supporters to fundraise on their behalf. The launch elevates our peer-to-peer portfolio by providing our best-in-class cloud solution at no subscription cost. 

We also introduced Blackbaud Purchase Cards integrated with Expense Management in Financial Edge NXT providing social good organizations with an efficient and convenient alternative to traditional procurement methods and paper-based payables processes such as checks, purchase orders, and invoices. The result for our customers is decentralized daily purchasing while implementing and monitoring the right controls in a scalable way, enabling them to realize benefits such as reductions in procurement cycle time, increased savings through supplier discounts, and working capital and cash flow improvements.

We continue to progress in our early adopter program for our new Cloud Solution for Faith Communities with our first wave of early adopter customers now live on our Church Management Solution using it to run their day-to-day operations in close collaboration with our product teams.

The market response to our expanded Education Management portfolio for Higher Education has been positive, with Blackbaud SKY enabling us to extend our proven K-12 Private School solutions up-market. Our Education Management portfolio consists of Student Information, Learning Management, Tuition Management as well as Financial Edge NXT and Raiser's Edge NXT.

We continue to build on our partnership with Microsoft to jointly-develop, co-market and co-sell innovative software technology that will advance the industry. Our first jointly-developed solution, Nonprofit Resource Management, is currently in development, and we are working in close collaboration with early adopters.

First Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q23
Blackbaud, Inc.


Selling modern, integrated cloud-solutions that are purpose-built for our customers' needs is a key competitive differentiator for our sales teams. We spent much of 2018 working to simplify our program and refine our methodology and approach in a uniform way to better enable our salespeople with process and practice. In the second half of 2018, we ramped our direct sales hiring more significantly than in the past and those new hires are progressing well towards targeted productivity. We expect to continue making investments during the remainder of 2019 and beyond. During the first quarter of 2019, we implemented a common sales leadership framework across the Company, providing our sales managers with best practice tools and training necessary to be successful. With the sales structure transformation now largely done, the focus going forward will be adding additional sales headcount and improving productivity.

3.Expand TAM into Near Adjacencies through Acquisitions and Product Investments

We are continuing to expand our total addressable market ("TAM") into new and near adjacencies with acquisitions and product investments. In January 2019, we added another half-billion dollars in TAM when we completed our acquisition of YourCause, an industry leader in enterprise corporate social responsibility and employee engagement technology. Adding YourCause’s capabilities in workplace giving and volunteering to Blackbaud’s cloud software platform, data intelligence, services and expertise in philanthropy and engagement is expected to drive effectiveness for companies and the broader social good community. Our TAM now stands at over $10 billion, and we remain active in the evaluation of opportunities to further expand our addressable market through acquisitions and internal product development.


We are focused on operational efficiency to strengthen the business and position us for long-term success. We continue to execute a comprehensive workplace and workforce strategy, driving towards a more scalable operating model that creates efficiency and consistency in how we execute through infrastructure investments, productivity initiatives, and organizational re-alignments. We have continued executing against our workplace strategy, working to replace and upgrade some of our existing offices and expand our footprint into new locations for customer facing roles. This has been a multi-year program for us, and we expect to be largely complete by the end of 2019.


The increase in total revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018, was primarily driven by growth in recurring revenue as we continue to see positive demand from customers across our portfolio of cloud-based solutions. The acquisitions of Reeher and YourCause, which occurred after March 31, 2018, also contributed to the increases in recurring and total revenue. As expected, one-time services and other revenue declined $5.6 million during the three months ended March 31, 2019 due to our continued shift in focus towards selling cloud-based subscription solutions. In general, our cloud-based solutions include integrated analytics, training and payments services, and require less implementation services and little to no customization services. We are also selling more subscription-based contracts for professional services and services embedded in our renewable cloud-based solution contracts. As a result, we continue to expect one-time services and other revenue to decline.

24First Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q
Blackbaud, Inc.


Income from operations decreased during the three months ended March 31, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018. The positive impact of growth in total revenue driven by recurring subscriptions was offset primarily by investments we are making in our sales organization and innovation, which we expect to continue in 2019 and beyond. Increases in stock-based compensation of $2.6 million, employee severance of $2.5 million, rent expense of $1.6 million, restructuring costs of $1.1 million and amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $1.1 million also negatively impacted income from operations during the three months ended March 31, 2019. The increase in stock-based compensation expense was primarily driven by an increase in the grant date fair value of our annual equity awards granted to employees during the first quarter of 2019, when compared to the grant date fair value of the awards granted during the same period in 2018. The increase in rent expense was primarily associated with the lease for our New Headquarters Facility in Charleston, South Carolina, which commenced in April 2018.

Customer retention

Our recurring revenue contracts are generally for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter. We anticipate a continued decrease in maintenance contract renewals as we transition our solution portfolio and maintenance customers from a perpetual license-based model to a cloud-based subscription delivery model. In the long term, we also anticipate an increase in recurring subscription contract renewals as we continue focusing on innovation, quality and the integration of our cloud-based solutions, which we believe will provide value-adding capabilities to better address our customers' needs. Due primarily to these factors, we believe a recurring revenue customer retention measure that combines recurring subscription, maintenance and service customer contracts provides a better representation of our customers' overall behavior. For the twelve months ended March 31, 2019, approximately 92% of our customers with recurring revenue contracts were retained. This customer retention rate is unchanged from our rate for the full year ended December 31, 2018 and modestly lower than our historical customer retention rates driven by our efforts to rationalize our portfolio of solutions and migrate customers from legacy solutions towards our next generation cloud-based solutions. We are investing in innovation and our customer success program, which we believe will increase customer retention over the long-term.

Balance sheet and cash flow

At March 31, 2019, our cash and cash equivalents were $25.2 million and the carrying amount of our debt under the 2017 Credit Facility was $583.6 million. Our net leverage ratio was 2.98 to 1.00. 

During the three months ended March 31, 2019, we used $10.0 million in cash for operations, had a net increase in our borrowings of $196.3 million, which was primarily used to finance the acquisition of YourCause, returned $5.9 million to stockholders by way of dividends and had aggregate cash outlays of $12.5 million for purchases of property and equipment and capitalized software development costs.

Adoption of new lease accounting standard

On January 1, 2019, we adopted ASU 2016-02, using the transition method that allowed us to initially apply the guidance at the adoption date of January 1, 2019 without adjusting comparative periods presented. Adopting ASU 2016-02 had a material impact on our consolidated balance sheet as as we recognized lease liabilities and ROU assets for those leases classified as operating leases. The impacts of adoption are reflected in the financial information herein. For additional information regarding the impact of our adoption of ASU 2016-02, see See Notes 2 and 10 of our consolidated financial statements in this report.

First Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q25
Blackbaud, Inc.

Results of Operations

Comparison of the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 

We have included the results of operations of YourCause in our consolidated results of operations from the date of acquisition. We determined that the YourCause acquisition was not a material business combination; therefore, separate presentation of revenue and earnings since the acquisition date are not required nor included herein.

Operating results



Recurring revenue is comprised of fees for the use of our subscription-based software solutions, which includes providing access to cloud-based solutions, hosting services, online training programs, subscription-based analytic services, such as donor acquisitions and data enrichment, and payment services. Recurring revenue also includes fees from maintenance services for our on-premises solutions, services included in our renewable subscription contracts, subscription-based contracts for professional services and variable transaction revenue associated with the use of our solutions.

Cost of recurring revenue is primarily comprised of compensation costs for customer support and production IT personnel, third-party contractor expenses, third-party royalty and data expenses, hosting expenses, allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs, amortization of intangible assets from business combinations, amortization of software development costs, transaction-based costs related to payments services including remittances of amounts due to third-parties and other costs incurred in providing support and recurring services to our customers.

We continue to experience growth in sales of our cloud-based solutions as we meet the demand of our customers that increasingly prefer cloud-based subscription offerings with integrated analytics, training and payment services. Recurring subscription contracts are typically for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter. We intend to continue focusing on innovation, quality and integration of our cloud-based solutions, which we believe will drive future revenue growth.

The increase in recurring revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018, was primarily due to positive demand across our portfolio of cloud-based solutions as revenue from subscriptions increased $21.8 million. The inclusion of Reeher and YourCause contributed to the increase in recurring revenue as both acquisitions were completed after March 31, 2018. We also saw increases in revenue from subscription-based professional services as well as services embedded in our renewable cloud-based solution contracts. These favorable impacts from subscriptions were partially offset by a decrease in maintenance revenue of $4.5 million during the three months ended March 31, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018. The decrease in maintenance revenue was primarily related to our efforts to migrate customers from legacy on-premises solutions onto our solutions powered by Blackbaud SKY, our modern cloud platform.

The increase in cost of recurring revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018, was primarily due to increases in transaction-based costs of $4.3 million, related to payment services integrated in our cloud-based solutions, allocations of depreciation, facilities and IT support costs of $2.5 million, compensation costs of $2.4 million, data center costs of $2.0 million and amortization of software development costs of $1.0 million. The growth in compensation costs was primarily attributable to an increasing portion of our resources now providing subscription-based professional services as opposed to one-time. The inclusion of Reeher and YourCause also contributed to the increase in cost of recurring revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2019 when compared 

26First Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q
Blackbaud, Inc.

to the same period in 2018. The increase in amortization of software development costs was primarily due to investments made on innovation, quality and the integration of our cloud-based solutions.

The decrease in recurring gross margin for the three months ended March 31, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018, was primarily the result of incremental costs associated with our continued shift toward cloud-based solutions, including compensation costs, hosting and data center costs, and amortization of software development costs, as well as a one-time third-party refund related to our integrated payment services during the three months ended March 31, 2018 that did not recur in 2019.



One-time services and other revenue is comprised of fees for one-time consulting, analytic and onsite training services, as well as revenue from the sale of our software sold under perpetual license arrangements, fees from user conferences and third-party software referral fees.

Cost of one-time services and other is primarily comprised of compensation costs for professional services and onsite training personnel, other costs incurred in providing onsite customer training, third-party contractor expenses, data expense incurred to perform one-time analytic services, third-party software royalties, costs of user conferences, allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs and amortization of intangible assets from business combinations.

One-time services and other revenue decreased during the three months ended March 31, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to decreases in one-time consulting revenue of $3.8 million and analytics revenue of $1.0 million. We expect that the shift in our go-to-market strategy towards cloud-based subscription offerings, which generally include integrated analytics and require less implementation and customization services, will continue to negatively impact one-time services and other revenue. We also continue to sell more subscription-based contracts for professional services and services embedded in our renewable cloud-based solution contracts, both of which are recorded as recurring revenue.

Cost of one-time services and other decreased during the three months ended March 31, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to a decrease in compensation costs of $3.0 million, which is in line with the ongoing shift in our go-to-market strategy as discussed above as an increasing portion of our resources are now providing subscription-based professional services as opposed to one-time.

One-time services and other gross margin decreased during the three months ended March 31, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018, as the declines in one-time consulting revenue and higher margin analytics revenue associated with the shift in our go-to-market strategy outpaced the reductions in costs of one-time services and other discussed above. This is a trend we expect to continue in the near term as we complete the transition of our solution portfolio to a cloud-based subscription delivery model.

First Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q27
Blackbaud, Inc.

Operating expenses


Sales, marketing, and customer success expense includes compensation costs, variable-sales commissions, travel-related expenses, advertising and marketing materials, public relations costs, variable reseller commissions and allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs.

We continue to make investments to drive sales effectiveness, which is a component of our four-point growth strategy. The increase in sales, marketing and customer success expense in dollars and as a percentage of total revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018, was primarily due to increases in compensation costs of $6.5 million and commissions expense of $1.3 million. Compensation costs increased as a result of our efforts during the second half of 2018 to increase our direct sales force and we expect to continue making investments during the remainder of 2019 and beyond. These incremental investments are intended to address the large market opportunity that we see for ourselves and fuel future revenue growth. In addition, compensation costs increased due to incremental headcount associated with the inclusion of Reeher and YourCause. The increase in commission expense was primarily driven by an increase in commissionable sales.


Research and development expense includes compensation costs for engineering and product management personnel, third-party contractor expenses, software development tools and other expenses related to developing new solutions, upgrading and enhancing existing solutions, and allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs.

We continue to make investments to deliver integrated and open solutions in the cloud, which is a component of our four-point growth strategy. The increase in research and development expense in dollars and as a percentage of total revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018, was primarily due to increases in compensation costs of $3.3 million and third-party contractor expenses of $1.1 million. The increases in compensation costs were primarily associated with the inclusion of Reeher's and YourCause's engineering resources. The incremental third-party contractor expenses were intended to help drive our solution development efforts, including our new Cloud Solutions for Faith Communities and Higher Education and the Integrated Cloud Initiative for Nonprofits. The increase in research and development expense dollars was partially offset by an increase in the amount of software development costs that were required to be capitalized under the internal-use software guidance. We expect that the amount of software development costs capitalized will continue to increase modestly in the near-term as we make investments in innovation, quality and the integration of our solutions, which we believe will drive long-term revenue growth.

28First Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q
Blackbaud, Inc.


General and administrative expense consists primarily of compensation costs for general corporate functions, including senior management, finance, accounting, legal, human resources and corporate development, third-party professional fees, insurance, allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs, acquisition-related expenses and other administrative expenses.

The increase in general and administrative expense in dollars and as a percentage of total revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018, was primarily due to increases in rent expense of $1.5 million, associated with the lease for our New Headquarters Facility in Charleston, South Carolina, which commenced in April 2018, and compensation costs of $0.8 million. The increase in compensation costs was primarily related to stock-based compensation and our acquisition of YourCause.

Restructuring

During 2017, in an effort to further our organizational objectives including, improved operating efficiency, customer outcomes and employee satisfaction, we initiated a multi-year plan to consolidate and relocate some of our existing offices to highly modern and more collaborative workspaces with short-term financial commitments. These workspaces are also more centrally located for our employees and closer to our customers and prospects. Restructuring costs incurred prior to our adoption of ASU 2016-02 on January 1, 2019 consisted primarily of costs to terminate lease agreements, contractual lease payments, net of estimated sublease income, upon vacating space as part of the plan, as well as insignificant costs to relocate affected employees and write-off facilities-related fixed assets that we would no longer use.

Upon adoption of ASU 2016-02 at January 1, 2019, we reduced our operating lease ROU assets recognized at transition by the carrying amounts of the restructuring liabilities for certain leased office spaces that we ceased using prior to December 31, 2018. See additional details below.

Restructuring costs incurred during the three months ended March 31, 2019 consisted primarily of operating lease ROU asset impairment costs and, to a lesser extent, write-offs of facilities-related fixed assets that we will no longer use.

We currently expect to incur before-tax restructuring costs associated with these activities of between $8.5 million and $9.5 million, of which $7.3 million has been incurred as of March 31, 2019, with substantially all of the remaining costs expected to be incurred by the end of 2019. These restructuring activities are currently expected to result in improved operating efficiencies and future annual before-tax savings of between $5.0 million and $6.0 million beginning in 2020.




First Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q29
Blackbaud, Inc.






Interest expense increased during the three months ended March 31, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to increases in our average daily borrowings related to our acquisitions of Reeher in April 2018 and YourCause in January 2019. Also contributing to the increases in interest expense during the three months ended March 31, 2019 were modest increases in our weighted average effective interest rates.

Deferred revenue




To the extent that our customers are billed for our solutions and services in advance of delivery, we record such amounts in deferred revenue. Our recurring revenue contracts are generally for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter, billed annually in advance and non-cancelable. We generally invoice our customers with recurring revenue contracts in annual cycles 30 days prior to the end of the contract term.

Deferred revenue from recurring revenue contracts decreased modestly during the three months ended March 31, 2019, primarily due to less customer contract renewals due to the timing of customer budget cycles. Historically, we have an increase in customer contract renewals near the beginning of our third quarter resulting in lower deferred revenue at the end of our first quarter. Deferred revenue from one-time services and other increased during the three months ended March 31, 2019, primarily due to a modest increase in onsite training sales.

We have acquired businesses whose net tangible assets include deferred revenue. In accordance with GAAP reporting requirements, we recorded write-downs of deferred revenue from customer arrangements predating the acquisition to fair value, which resulted in lower recorded deferred revenue as of the acquisition date than the actual amounts paid in advance for solutions and services under those customer arrangements. Therefore, our deferred revenue after an acquisition will not reflect the full amount of deferred revenue that would have been reported if the acquired deferred revenue was 

30First Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q
Blackbaud, Inc.

not written down to fair value. Further explanation of this impact is included below under the caption "Non-GAAP financial measures".


We compute the year-to-date income tax provision by applying the estimated annual effective tax rate to the year-to-date pre-tax income or loss and adjusting for discrete tax items in the period. Our effective income tax rate can be more or less volatile based on the amount of pre-tax income or loss. For example, the impact of discrete items and non-deductible expenses on our effective tax rate is greater when our pre-tax income is lower. The increase in our effective income tax rate during the three months ended March 31, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018, was partially attributable to the impact of discrete tax benefits on a pre-tax loss for the quarter as compared to pre-tax income for the same period in 2018.

The increase in our effective income tax rate during the three months ended March 31, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018, was also due to a decrease in the discrete benefit to income tax expense relating to stock-based compensation. The impact was attributable to a decrease in the market price for shares of our common stock, when compared to the same period in 2018, as reported by Nasdaq. Most of our equity awards are granted during our first quarter and vest in subsequent years during the same quarter.

First Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q31
Blackbaud, Inc.

Non-GAAP financial measures

The operating results analyzed below are presented on a non-GAAP basis. We use non-GAAP revenue, non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP income from operations, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share internally in analyzing our operational performance. Accordingly, we believe these non-GAAP measures are useful to investors, as a supplement to GAAP measures, in evaluating our ongoing operational performance. While we believe these non-GAAP measures provide useful supplemental information, non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures may not be completely comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies due to potential differences in the exact method of calculation between companies.

We have acquired businesses whose net tangible assets include deferred revenue. In accordance with GAAP reporting requirements, we recorded write-downs of deferred revenue under arrangements predating the acquisition to fair value, which resulted in lower recognized revenue than the contributed purchase price until the related obligations to provide services under such arrangements are fulfilled. Therefore, our GAAP revenues after the acquisitions will not reflect the full amount of revenue that would have been reported if the acquired deferred revenue was not written down to fair value. The non-GAAP measures described below reverse the acquisition-related deferred revenue write-downs so that the full amount of revenue booked by the acquired companies is included, which we believe provides a more accurate representation of a revenue run-rate in a given period and, therefore, will provide more meaningful comparative results in future periods. 

The non-GAAP financial measures discussed below exclude the impact of certain transactions because we believe they are not directly related to our operating performance in any particular period, but are for our long-term benefit over multiple periods. We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures reflect our ongoing business in a manner that allows for meaningful period-to-period comparisons and analysis of trends in our business.



32First Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q
Blackbaud, Inc.




Non-GAAP free cash flow is defined as operating cash flow less capital expenditures, including costs required to be capitalized for software development, and capital expenditures for property and equipment.


First Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q33
Blackbaud, Inc.

Non-GAAP organic revenue growth

In addition, we discuss non-GAAP organic revenue growth, non-GAAP organic revenue growth on a constant currency basis and non-GAAP organic recurring revenue growth, in analyzing our performance. We believe that these non-GAAP measures are useful to investors, as a supplement to GAAP measures, for evaluating the periodic growth of our business on a consistent basis. Each of these measures of non-GAAP organic revenue growth excludes incremental acquisition-related revenue attributable to companies acquired in the current fiscal year. For companies, if any, acquired in the immediately preceding fiscal year, each of these non-GAAP organic revenue growth measures reflects presentation of full year incremental non-GAAP revenue derived from such companies as if they were combined throughout the prior period, and they include the non-GAAP revenue attributable to those companies, as if there were no acquisition-related write-downs of acquired deferred revenue to fair value as required by GAAP. In addition, each of these non-GAAP organic revenue growth measures excludes prior period revenue associated with divested businesses. The exclusion of the prior period revenue is to present the results of the divested businesses within the results of the combined company for the same period of time in both the prior and current periods. We believe this presentation provides a more comparable representation of our current business’ organic revenue growth and revenue run-rate. 





34First Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q
Blackbaud, Inc.

Seasonality

Our revenues normally fluctuate as a result of certain seasonal variations in our business. Our transaction revenue has historically been at its lowest in the first quarter due to the timing of customer fundraising initiatives and events. Our revenue from payment services has historically increased during the fourth quarter due to year-end giving. Our revenue from professional services has historically been lower in the first quarter when many of those services commence and in the fourth quarter due to the holiday season. As a result of these and other factors, our total revenue has historically been lower in the first quarter than in the remainder of our fiscal year, with the fourth quarter historically achieving the highest total revenue. Our expenses, however, do not vary significantly as a result of these factors, but do fluctuate on a quarterly basis due to varying timing of expenditures. Our cash flow from operations normally fluctuates quarterly due to the combination of the timing of customer contract renewals including renewals associated with customers of acquired companies, delivery of professional services and occurrence of customer events, the payment of bonuses, as well as merit-based salary increases, among other factors. Historically, due to lower revenues in our first quarter, combined with the payment of bonuses from the prior year in our first quarter, our cash flow from operations has been lowest in our first quarter, and due to the timing of customer contract renewals, many of which take place at or near the beginning of our third quarter, our cash flow from operations has been lower in our second quarter as compared to our third and fourth quarters. Partially offsetting these favorable drivers of cash flow from operations in our third and fourth quarters are merit-based salary increases, which are generally effective in April each year. In addition, deferred revenues can vary on a seasonal basis for the same reasons. These patterns may change as a result of the continued shift to online giving, growth in volume of transactions for which we process payments, or as a result of acquisitions, new market opportunities, new solution introductions or other factors. Our cash flow from financing is negatively impacted in our first quarter when most of our equity awards vest, as we pay taxes on behalf of our employees related to the settlement or exercise of equity awards.

Liquidity and Capital Resources






First Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q35
Blackbaud, Inc.

At March 31, 2019, our total cash and cash equivalents balance included approximately $13.4 million of cash that was held by operations outside the U.S. While these funds may not be needed to fund our U.S. operations for at least the next twelve months, if we need these funds, we may be required to accrue and pay taxes to repatriate the funds. We currently do not intend nor anticipate a need to repatriate our cash held outside the U.S.

Operating cash flow


Working capital changes are composed of changes in accounts receivable, prepaid expenses and other assets, trade accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities, and deferred revenue. Cash flow from operations associated with working capital decreased $7.6 million during the three months ended March 31, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to an increase in the collection of customer account balances in 2018. Fluctuations in the timing of vendor payments also contributed to the decrease in cash flow from operations associated with working capital.

Investing cash flow

Net cash used in investing activities of $121.9 million increased by $103.9 million during the three months ended March 31, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018. 

During the three months ended March 31, 2019, we used net cash of $109.4 million, for our acquisition of YourCause, compared to $5.0 million spent on similar investments during the same period in 2018. We used $11.3 million for software development costs, which was up $4.2 million from cash spent during the same period in 2018. The increase in cash outlays for software development costs was primarily driven by development activities related to our cloud-based solutions, including our Church Management Solution, as well as development activities for Blackbaud SKY, our modern cloud platform.

We also spent $1.2 million of cash for purchases of property and equipment during the three months ended March 31, 2019, which was down $4.6 million from cash spent during the same period in 2018. The higher cash outlays for property and equipment during the same period in 2018 was primarily driven by leasehold improvements for our New Headquarters Facility in Charleston, South Carolina.

Financing cash flow

During the three months ended March 31, 2019, we had a net increase in borrowings of $196.3 million, which was primarily used to finance our acquisition of YourCause. Historically, due to lower revenues in our first quarter, combined with the payment of bonuses from the prior year in our first quarter, our cash flow from operations has been lowest in our first quarter.

We paid $18.4 million to satisfy tax obligations of employees upon settlement or exercise of equity awards during the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to $22.5 million during the same period in 2018. The amount of taxes paid by us on the behalf of employees related to the settlement or exercise of equity awards varies from period to period based upon the timing of grants and vesting, employee exercise decisions, as well as the market price for shares of our common stock at the time of settlement. Most of our equity awards currently vest in our first quarter. In addition, during the three months ended March 31, 2019, we paid dividends of $5.9 million, which was relatively consistent with the comparable period of 2018.

Cash used in financing activities associated with changes in restricted cash due to customers increased $191.8 million during the three months ended March 31, 2019 when compared to the same period in 2018, as the amount of restricted cash held and payable by us to customers as of December 31, 2017 was significantly larger than at the same date in 2018.

36First Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q
Blackbaud, Inc.


We have drawn on our credit facility from time to time to help us meet financial needs, such as financing for business acquisitions. At March 31, 2019, our available borrowing capacity under the 2017 Credit Facility was $98.4 million. The 2017 Credit Facility matures in June 2022.

At March 31, 2019, the carrying amount of our debt under the 2017 Credit Facility was $583.6 million. Our average daily borrowings during the three months ended March 31, 2019 were $557.5 million.




Commitments and contingencies






The term loan under the 2017 Credit Facility and our other debt require periodic principal payments. The balance of the term loans and any amounts drawn on the revolving credit loans are due upon maturity of the 2017 Credit Facility in June 2022.

The total liability for uncertain tax positions as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, was $4.7 million and $3.7 million, respectively. Our accrued interest and penalties related to tax positions taken on our tax returns was $1.0 million and $0.7 million as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.

In February 2019, our Board of Directors approved our annual dividend rate of $0.48 per share to be made in quarterly payments. Dividends at this annual rate would aggregate to $23.5 million assuming 49.0 million shares of common stock 

First Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q37
Blackbaud, Inc.

are outstanding, although dividends are not guaranteed and our Board of Directors may decide, in its absolute discretion, to change or suspend dividend payments at any time for any reason. Our ability to continue to declare and pay dividends quarterly this year and beyond might be restricted by, among other things, the terms of the 2017 Credit Facility, general economic conditions and our ability to generate adequate operating cash flow.

On April 30, 2019, our Board of Directors declared a second quarter dividend of $0.12 per share payable on June 14, 2019 to stockholders of record on May 28, 2019.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

As of March 31, 2019, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K promulgated by the SEC that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in our financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that is material to investors.

Foreign Currency Exchange Rates

Approximately 13% of our total revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2019 was generated from operations outside the U.S. We do not have significant operations in countries in which the economy is considered to be highly inflationary. Our consolidated financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars and, accordingly, changes in the exchange rate between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar will affect the translation of our subsidiaries’ financial results into U.S. dollars for purposes of reporting our consolidated financial results. The accumulated currency translation adjustment, recorded within accumulated other comprehensive loss as a component of stockholders’ equity, was a loss of $2.0 million as of March 31, 2019 and a loss of $6.6 million as of December 31, 2018.

The vast majority of our contracts are entered into by our U.S. or U.K. entities. The contracts entered into by the U.S. entity are almost always denominated in U.S. dollars or Canadian dollars, and contracts entered into by our U.K., Australian and Irish subsidiaries are generally denominated in British Pounds, Australian dollars and Euros, respectively. Historically, as the U.S. dollar weakened, foreign currency translation resulted in an increase in our revenues and expenses denominated in non-U.S. currencies. Conversely, as the U.S. dollar strengthened, foreign currency translation resulted in a decrease in our revenue and expenses denominated in non-U.S. currencies. During the three months ended March 31, 2019, foreign translation resulted in a decrease in our revenues and expenses denominated in non-U.S. currencies. Though we have exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, primarily those between the U.S. dollar and both the British Pound and Canadian dollar, the impact has generally not been material to our consolidated results of operations or financial position. For the three months ended March 31, 2019, the fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates reduced our total revenue by $1.7 million and our income from operations by an insignificant amount. We will continue monitoring such exposure and take action as appropriate. To determine the impacts on revenue (or income from operations) from fluctuations in currency exchange rates, current period revenues (or income from operations) from entities reporting in foreign currencies were translated into U.S. dollars using the comparable prior year period's weighted average foreign currency exchange rates. These impacts are non-GAAP financial information and are not in accordance with, or an alternative to, information prepared in accordance with GAAP.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

There have been no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to those disclosed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018.

38First Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q
Blackbaud, Inc.

Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements

For a discussion of the impact that recently issued accounting pronouncements are expected to have on our financial position and results of operations when adopted in the future, see Note 2 of our consolidated financial statements in this report.

ITEM 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

We have market rate sensitivity for interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates.

Interest Rate Risk

Our variable rate debt is our primary financial instrument with market risk exposure for changing interest rates. We manage our variable rate interest rate risk through a combination of short-term and long-term borrowings and the use of derivative instruments entered into for hedging purposes. Due to the nature of our debt, the materiality of the fair values of the derivative instruments and the highly liquid, short-term nature and level of our cash and cash equivalents as of March 31, 2019, we believe that the risk of exposure to changing interest rates for those positions is immaterial. There were no significant changes in how we manage interest rate risk between December 31, 2018 and March 31, 2019. 

Foreign Currency Risk

For a discussion of our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Foreign Currency Exchange Rates” in this report.

ITEM 4. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Securities Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) are designed only to provide reasonable assurance that they will meet their objectives. As of the end of the period covered by this report, we carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer (principal executive officer) and Chief Financial Officer (principal financial and accounting officer), of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) pursuant to Securities Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(b). Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective to provide the reasonable assurance discussed above.

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

No changes in internal control over financial reporting occurred during the most recent fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2019 with respect to our operations, which have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. As discussed in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements in this report, we adopted ASU 2016-02 effective January 1, 2019. We implemented internal controls to ensure we adequately evaluated our contracts and properly assessed the impact of the new standard on our financial statements. There were no significant changes to our internal control over financial reporting due to the adoption of ASU 2016-02.

First Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q39
Blackbaud, Inc.

 PART II. OTHER INFORMATION

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described in Part I, Item IA, "Risk factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our stock. There have been no material changes to our risk factors since our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.

ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

The following table provides information about shares of common stock acquired or repurchased during the three months ended March 31, 2019. All of these acquisitions were of common stock withheld by us to satisfy tax obligations of employees due upon exercise of stock appreciation rights and vesting of restricted stock awards and units. The level of acquisition activity varies from period to period based upon the timing of grants and vesting as well as employee exercise decisions.



40First Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q
Blackbaud, Inc.

ITEM 6. EXHIBITS




First Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q41
Blackbaud, Inc.

 SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


42First Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q