UNITED STATES 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 



x QUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 

For the quarterly period ended December 31, 2018 

or 

¨ TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 




CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 



 (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization) (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)  

4375 River Green Parkway, Suite 210, Duluth, Georgia 30096 





Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files). Yes þ  No o 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 


If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ¨ 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). 

Yes ¨ No þ 

Number of shares of the Company’s common stock, par value $0.01 per share, outstanding as of February 4, 2019 was 8,905,037. 

CCUR Holdings, Inc.  

Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q 

For the Quarterly Period Ended December 31, 2018 

Table of Contents 



Part I - Financial Information 

Item 1. Financial Statements 

CCUR Holdings, Inc.  

Consolidated Balance Sheets (Unaudited) 



The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.


CCUR Holdings, Inc. 

Consolidated STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited) 



The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.


ccur holdings, inc. 

Consolidated STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE (LOSS) INCOME (Unaudited) 



The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 


ccur holdings, inc. 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Unaudited) 



The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 


CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 


 1.Overview of Business and Basis of Presentation  

References herein to “CCUR Holdings,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” or “our” refer to CCUR Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries unless the context specifically indicates otherwise. CCUR Holdings was formerly known as Concurrent Computer Corporation and changed its name on January 2, 2018. 

In May 2017, we sold our Real-Time business consisting of real-time Linux operating system versions, development and performance optimization tools, simulation software and other system software combined, in many cases, with computer platforms and services. These real-time products were sold to a wide variety of companies seeking high performance, real-time computer solutions in the defense, aerospace, financial and automotive markets around the world. 

On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our content delivery and storage business (the “Content Delivery business”) and other related assets to Vecima Networks, Inc. (“Vecima”) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima. Substantially all liabilities associated with the Content Delivery business were assigned to Vecima as part of the transaction. The Content Delivery business provided advanced applications focused on storing, protecting, transforming, and delivering high value media. 

Results of the Content Delivery business are retrospectively reported as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for all periods presented. Prior year information has been adjusted to conform to the current year presentation. Unless otherwise stated, the information disclosed in the footnotes accompanying the consolidated financial statements refers to continuing operations. See Note 3 “Discontinued Operations” for more information regarding results from discontinued operations. 

In fiscal year 2018, following the sale of the Content Delivery business, we began developing a real estate operation initially through, among other things, making a number of commercial loans secured by real property. Based on the success of these activities, including the yield characteristics of these loans, and management’s experience in the real estate area, we created Recur Holdings LLC, a Delaware limited liability company wholly owned by the Company, during the first quarter of our fiscal year 2019. Through Recur Holdings LLC, we conduct, hold and manage our existing and future real estate operations. 

The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements included herein have been prepared by the Company pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”) have been omitted pursuant to applicable rules and regulations. In the opinion of management, all adjustments of a normal recurring nature which were considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included. The year-end consolidated balance sheet data as of June 30, 2018 was derived from our audited consolidated financial statements and may not include all disclosures required by U.S. GAAP. Certain prior period income amounts have been reclassified to conform with current period presentation. The results of operations for the three months and six months ended December 31, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the entire year. These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018 filed with the SEC on September 7, 2018. 

Smaller Reporting Company 

We meet the SEC’s definition of a “Smaller Reporting Company,” and therefore qualify for the SEC’s reduced disclosure requirements for smaller reporting companies. 


CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 


Use of Estimates 

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. 

Investments in Debt and Equity Securities 

We determine the appropriate classification of investments in debt securities at the time of purchase and reevaluate such determinations at each balance sheet date. Debt securities are classified as held-to-maturity when the Company has the positive intent and ability to hold the securities to maturity. Held-to-maturity securities are recorded as either short term or long term in the consolidated balance sheet based on contractual maturity date and are stated at amortized cost. Marketable securities that are bought and held principally for the purpose of selling them in the near term are classified as trading securities and are reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses recognized in earnings. Debt securities not classified as held-to-maturity or as trading are classified as available-for-sale, and are carried at fair market value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in the determination of comprehensive income and reported in stockholders’ equity. 



In some cases, our debt investments may provide for a portion of the interest payable to be payment-in-kind (“PIK”) interest. To the extent interest is PIK, it is payable through the increase of the principal amount of the loan by the amount of the interest due on the then-outstanding principal amount of the loan. 


CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 


Commercial and Mortgage Loans and Loan Losses 

We have potential exposure to transaction losses as a result of uncollectibility of commercial mortgage and other loans. We base our reserve estimates on prior chargeback history and currently available information that is indicative of a transaction loss. We reflect additions to the reserve in current operating results, while we make charges to the reserve when we incur losses. We reflect recoveries in the reserve for transaction losses as collected. We have the intent and ability to hold our commercial loans to maturity and have not recorded provisions for loan losses as of December 31, 2018. 

We have the intent and ability to hold these loans to maturity or payoff and as such, have classified these loans as held-for-investment. These loans are reported on the balance sheet at the outstanding principal balance adjusted for any charge-offs, allowance for loan losses, and deferred fees or costs. As of December 31, 2018, we have not recorded any charge-offs, and believe that an allowance for loan losses is not required. 

Advances Receivable 

Merchant Cash Advances, net 

In December 2018, we began purchasing participation interests in Merchant Cash Advances (“MCAs”) from a third party whose principal activity is originating MCAs to small businesses. MCAs are contracts formed through a future receivables or receipts purchase and sale agreement, which stipulates the purchase price, or the amount advanced, and the specified amount, or the advance amount plus the factored receivable balance the Company will be repaid, on the face of the contract. Generally, a specified amount will be withdrawn from the merchant’s bank account via daily or weekly ACH in order to pay down the merchant’s advance. These are not consumer loan contracts, nor are they installment loan contracts to businesses for business use only. In addition, there is no monthly minimum payment, nor is there a specific repayment schedule. 

Other Advances Receivable 

During the six months ended December 31, 2018, we provided a $2,000 cash advance to an aviation business to fund the deposit required for the recipient’s aircraft purchases for up to six months, in exchange for paying us an upfront fee and a guaranty of the full repayment obligation from the principal of the third-party business. The fee is earned over the six-month advance period and is reported as part of merchant cash advance income within the statement of operations. Each quarter, we review the carrying value of this cash advance, and determine if an impairment reserve is necessary. As of December 31, 2018, our advance receivable was not impaired. 

Allowance for MCA credit losses 

The allowance for credit losses for MCAs is established at the time of funding through a provision for losses charged to our statement of operations based on historical performance experienced by an industry peer group. Losses are charged against the allowance when management believes that the future collection in full of purchased receivables is unlikely. Subsequent recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance. 

The establishment of appropriate reserves is an inherently uncertain process, and ultimate losses may vary from the current estimates. We regularly update our reserve estimates as new facts become known and events occur that may affect the settlement or recovery of losses. For the six months ended December 31, 2018, we have experienced no losses on advances; however, new facts and circumstances may adversely affect our MCA portfolio resulting in increased delinquencies and losses and could require additional provisions for credit losses, which could impact future periods. Based on industry peer group historical performance, we recorded a $495 loss reserve during the current period. 


CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 


Revenue Recognition 

We generate revenue primarily from interest earned on commercial mortgage and other loans that yield interest, and also from fees earned on MCAs. Loan origination fees are deferred and recognized over the expected term of the loan. The revenue generated from MCAs is primarily factor income. The factor income represents the amount of the purchased receivables in excess of the funded contract amount advanced to the merchant in accordance with the merchant agreement net of amounts related to participations. Factor income on merchant advance receivables is earned and recognized ratably as receivables are collected, at factor rates stipulated in the client funding agreement from the date of purchase through the date the receivables are collected or ceases accruing factor revenue when the receivable is identified as uncollectible. 

Basic and Diluted (Loss) Earnings per Share 

Basic (loss) earnings per share is computed by dividing (loss) income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during each year. Diluted (loss) earnings per share is computed by dividing (loss) income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding including dilutive common share equivalents. Under the treasury stock method, incremental shares representing the number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding if the dilutive potential common shares had been issued are included in the computation. Due to the loss from continuing operations for both periods presented, weighted average common share equivalents of 10,937 and 315,771 for the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and weighted average common share equivalents of 13,420 and 322,570 for the six months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, were excluded from the calculation as their effect would have been anti-dilutive. 

Fair Value Measurements 

Fair value is defined as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly fashion between market participants at the measurement date. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required or permitted to be either recorded or disclosed at fair value, we consider the most advantageous market in which it would transact and assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability. 


 ·Level 1 Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; 

 ·Level 2 Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are either directly or indirectly observable; and 

 ·Level 3 Assets or liabilities for which fair value is based on valuation models with significant unobservable pricing inputs and which include the use of management estimates.  


CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 





The carrying amounts of certain financial instruments, including cash equivalents and MCAs, approximate their fair values due to their short-term nature. 


Recently Issued and Adopted Accounting Guidance 



CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 


Recent Accounting Guidance Not Yet Adopted 



Content Delivery Business 

On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of the Content Delivery business and other related assets to Vecima pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima for a purchase price of $29,000 (subject to an adjustment for net working capital). The sale included our Content Delivery business assets and related liabilities in the United States, United Kingdom, and Germany, as well as the sale of all equity in our Japanese subsidiary. 


Results associated with the Content Delivery business are classified within income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. Operating expenses recorded in discontinued operations include costs incurred directly in support of the Content Delivery business. 


CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 







CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities Investments 




Fixed maturity debt securities are classified as “available for sale,” and as such, adjustments to fair value are recorded within other comprehensive income on the consolidated balance sheet as unrealized gains and losses. Upon our adoption of ASU 2016-01, effective July 1, 2018, changes in fair value of equity securities are recorded within the consolidated statement of operations as a net realized gain (loss) on investments. During the three months ended December 31, 2018, we recorded a $1,529 unrealized loss on investments within our consolidated statement of operations as a fair value adjustment to our equity securities investments. During the six months ended December 31, 2018, we recorded a $1,986 unrealized loss on investments within our consolidated statement of operations as a fair value adjustment to our equity securities investments, and we recorded a $201 realized gain on the sale of debt and equity securities, as reported within our consolidated statement of operations. 



The amortized cost and fair value of fixed maturity securities available-for-sale as of December 31, 2018 are shown by contractual maturity in the table below. Actual maturities can differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties. 


CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



 5.Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans Receivable  



We also had a $1,400 deposit held by an escrow agent as of June 30, 2018 for a mortgage loan that was consummated subsequent to our June 30, 2018 fiscal year end. 




CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 






Components of Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes 






We are continuing to evaluate the impact of TCJA in light of the guidance that the U.S. Treasury and various state taxing authorities are releasing. At this time, we do not believe there will be any material changes to the amounts previously provided for the impact of the TCJA. We concluded our analysis during the second quarter of fiscal 2019. 


CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 


As a result of the TCJA, we are reassessing our intentions related to our indefinite reinvestment assertion as part of our provisional estimates. Should we decide to no longer indefinitely reinvest such foreign earnings outside the U.S., we would have to adjust the income tax provision in the period such determination is made. We currently have an immaterial amount of cash available for repatriation of less than $35. After the TCJA, there should be no federal income taxes that would be due upon repatriation. Any other impact, such as withholding tax, states taxes, or foreign exchange rate changes, should be immaterial based on the amount of cash held overseas. 

Net Operating Losses 

As of June 30, 2018, we had U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”) of approximately $56,113 for income tax purposes, of which none expire in fiscal year 2019, and the remainder expire at various dates through fiscal year 2037. We recently completed an evaluation of the potential effect of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (the “IRC”) on our ability to utilize these net operating losses. The study concluded that we have not had an ownership change for the period from July 22, 1993 to June 30, 2018; therefore, the NOLs will not be subject to limitation under Section 382. If we experience an ownership change as defined in Section 382 of the IRC, our ability to use these NOLs will be substantially limited, which could therefore significantly impair the value of that asset. We have taken steps to protect the value of our NOLs with a “Tax Asset Preservation Plan” which is described more fully in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018. 

As of June 30, 2018, we had state NOLs of $33,240. The state NOLs expire according to the rules of each state and expiration will occur between fiscal year 2019 and fiscal year 2037. 

Deferred Tax Assets and Related Valuation Allowances 


Research and Development Tax Credits 

During the year ended June 30, 2017, we applied for both a U.S. federal and state of Georgia research and development tax credit in the amounts of $719 and $675, respectively, for our fiscal year ending June 30, 2016. For U.S. federal tax purposes, the credit cannot be utilized immediately but will carryforward for a period of 20 years. As we do not expect to be able to realize the benefit of the U.S. federal tax credit carryforward before its expiration, we maintain a full valuation allowance on this item. For the state of Georgia tax credit, we have recorded the credit within both other current assets and other long-term assets with an offset in both accrued expenses and other long-term liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2018 and June 30, 2018, respectively. As future payroll tax withholdings of our Georgia-based employees become due, we are able to offset the withholding amount dollar-for-dollar against the credit. As a result, as the credit is claimed, we will (1) reduce other current assets and offset the payroll tax liability and (2) reduce accrued expenses and recognize a reduction of operating expenses. 


CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



Unrecognized Tax Benefits 

We have evaluated our unrecognized tax benefits and determined that there has not been a material change in the amount of such benefits for the three months and six months ended December 31, 2018. 







CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



Defined Benefit Plans 



 10.Accounts Payable and Accrued Expenses  



 11.Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss  




Severance Arrangements 

Pursuant to the terms of the employment agreements with the chief financial officer and legal counsel, employment may be terminated by either the respective employee or us at any time. In the event an agreement is terminated by us without cause, or in certain circumstances terminates constructively or expires, the terminated employee will receive severance compensation for a period from six to 12 months, depending on the employee, and bonus severance. Additionally, if terminated, our chief financial officer will be entitled to COBRA continuation coverage under the Company’s hospitalization and medical plan for the 12-month period following termination. At December 31, 2018, the maximum contingent liability under these agreements was $491. 


CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



Release of Content Delivery Business Sale Proceeds from Escrow 

As a condition of the sale of our Content Delivery business to Vecima on December 31, 2017, $1,450 of the purchase price proceeds were placed in escrow as security for our indemnification obligations to Vecima under the CDN APA, through December 31, 2018, with any portion used to reimburse Vecima for indemnification payments deducted from the escrow balance. On January 2, 2019, the full $1,450 was released from escrow and transferred to our bank account. 


 Item 2.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  

The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto which appear elsewhere herein. Except for the historical financial information, many of the matters discussed in this Item 2 may be considered “forward-looking” statements that reflect our plans, estimates and beliefs. Actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section below entitled “Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,” elsewhere herein and in other filings made with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2018. 

References herein to “CCUR Holdings,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our” refer to CCUR Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries unless the context specifically indicates otherwise. CCUR Holdings was formerly known as Concurrent Computer Corporation and changed its name on January 2, 2018. 

References herein to the “current year period” and the “prior year period” refer to the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 

Overview 

On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our content delivery and storage business (the “Content Delivery business”) and other related assets to Vecima Networks, Inc. (“Vecima”) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement (the “CDN APA”), dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima. Substantially all assets and liabilities associated with the Content Delivery business were assigned to Vecima as part of the transaction. Results of the Content Delivery business are retrospectively reflected as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for all periods presented (see Note 3, “Discontinued Operations,” to the accompanying consolidated financial statements). Unless otherwise noted, discussion of our business and results of operations in this Form 10-Q refers to our continuing operations. 

The Investment Committee, a special sub-committee of the Board, was established in December 2017 upon the signing of the CDN APA for the purpose of considering alternative means to deploy the proceeds of the sale of the Content Delivery business and other corporate assets to maximize long-term value for our stockholders. Such alternatives include, but are not limited to, evaluating opportunities to acquire all or a controlling interest in one or more operating businesses or assets intended to provide attractive returns for our stockholders and that are intended to result in appreciation in value, a more liquid trading market for our stock, and enhance our ability to utilize our existing U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”). Other than the restrictions set forth in the relevant non-competition and non-solicitation agreement executed by the Company in connection with the disposition of our prior operations, there are no restrictions on the transactions that we can pursue, including with respect to industry sector and geographic location. During fiscal year 2019, the Board dissolved the Investment Committee and established an Asset Management Committee as a standing committee of the Board. The Asset Management Committee, among other things, continues the work of the former Investment Committee by providing oversight of the Company’s acquisition process and also manages the Company’s ongoing operations and assets (including continued expansion and development of its real estate operations) and those of any subsequently acquired businesses. 

We are actively pursuing business opportunities, including the acquisition of new businesses or assets, as well as developing and managing our current business and assets. We continually identify and evaluate a wide range of opportunities in an effort to reinvest the proceeds of our calendar year 2017 business dispositions and maximize use of other assets such as our NOLs. We believe that these activities will enable us to identify, acquire and grow businesses and assets that will maximize value for all of our stockholders. 

As part of this effort, our senior management spends a significant portion of its time evaluating potential acquisition and strategic opportunities. We have received referrals with respect to and have performed due diligence assessments on multiple target companies and strategic opportunities in a variety of industries. We work with several financial advisors and consultants on a non-exclusive basis and have been able to filter leads and referrals through diverse channels enabling us to review a wide range of opportunities in a variety of industries. We have not focused our acquisition and strategic efforts on any specific industry, focusing instead on identifying well-priced businesses and assets that we believe have significant growth potential. 


Our acquisition process is focused on identifying fairly- to under-valued businesses that have growth potential. Due to current market conditions, we have faced significant competition from strategic and, in particular, financial buyers which in many instances have raised seller valuation expectations above what we consider to be attractive levels for us and our stockholders. We continue to believe that fairly- and under-valued opportunities exist and are attainable and do not intend to pursue what we consider to be overvalued businesses and assets that we believe may not deliver the levels of returns that we target. 

Recent Events 

Merchant Cash Advance (MCA) Funding 

In December 2018, we entered into an arrangement with a leading MCA originator to participate in funding MCAs. We made an initial advance of $5.0 million to the originator (the “Initial MCA Advance”), who in turn advanced these funds to merchants as part of a syndication. MCAs are contracts formed through a future receivables or receipts purchase and sale agreement, which stipulates the purchase price, or the amount advanced, and the specified amount, or the advance amount plus the factored receivable balance the Company will be repaid, on the face of the contract. Generally, a specified amount will be withdrawn from the merchant’s bank account via daily or weekly ACH in order to pay down the merchant’s advance. These are not consumer loan contracts, nor are they installment loan contracts to businesses for business use only. In addition, there is no monthly minimum payment, nor is there a specific repayment schedule. As of December 31, 2018, our revenue and receivables from MCAs were derived from a single MCA originator with which we funded, in syndication, more than 100 advances to merchants. 

Non-Binding Letter of Intent to Acquire an 80% Membership interest in LuxeMark Capital, LLC 

On October 2, 2018, we announced that the Company entered into a non-binding letter of intent (the “LOI”) to acquire an eighty percent (80%) interest in LuxeMark Capital, LLC (“LuxeMark”), a privately held firm focused on the rapidly growing MCA sector of the finance industry that provides financing to small and medium-sized businesses. LuxeMark facilitates the provision of syndication capital or leverage to select funding companies within the MCA sector and provides related administrative servicing functions. 

Pursuant to the LOI, the Company will acquire the interest in LuxeMark for a combination of up to $6 million in cash and equity, each payable over four years and subject to the achievement of prescribed financial performance milestones by LuxeMark. Additionally, the Company intends to fund up to $10 million in MCA capital, including through the Initial MCA Advance, which LuxeMark facilitated and for which LuxeMark provides certain servicing. The acquisition and deployment of any remaining MCA capital are subject to a number of conditions including the negotiation of definitive documentation and completion of CCUR’s due diligence investigation to CCUR’s satisfaction. 

We expect that the proposed transaction with LuxeMark will provide the Company with two revenue streams generated through (i) the Company’s 80% interest and thereby its pro-rated portion of the fee income earned by LuxeMark on its syndicators’ invested capital and (ii) returns received on funds the Company makes available as a LuxeMark syndicator or lender. 

Continued Pursuit of Acquisition Opportunities 



Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 


Allowance for MCA credit losses 

The allowance for credit losses for MCAs is established at the time of purchase through a provision for losses charged to our statement of operations based on historical performance experienced by a peer group. Losses are charged against the allowance when management believes that the future collection of principal is unlikely. Subsequent recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance. 

The establishment of appropriate reserves is an inherently uncertain process, and ultimate losses may vary from the current estimates. We regularly update our reserve estimates as new facts become known and events occur that may affect the settlement or recovery of losses. For the six months ended December 31, 2018, we have experienced no losses on advances; however, new facts and circumstances may adversely affect our MCA portfolio resulting in increased delinquencies and losses and could require additional provisions for credit losses, which could impact future periods. Based on industry peer group historical performance, we recorded a $495 loss reserve during the current period. 

Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended December 31, 2018 Compared to the Three Months Ended December 31, 2017 

Interest Income on Commercial Loans. We created Recur Holdings LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, during the first quarter of our fiscal year 2019. Through Recur Holdings LLC we conduct, hold and manage our existing and future real estate operations. During the three months ended December 31, 2018, we earned $0.2 million of interest income on seven mortgage and other commercial loans with a weighted average annualized yield of 11.0%. 

MCA Income. In December 31, 2018, we began participating in the MCA industry by indirectly advancing funds to merchants through a third-party originator that is a leader in the MCA sector. We generated $0.2 million of income from MCAs during the period and expect to fund additional MCAs in the remaining quarters of our fiscal year 2019. 


 ·a $1.8 million decrease in stock-based compensation expense resulting from the acceleration of vesting of restricted stock awards in the prior year due to the change of control triggered by the sale of our Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017;  

 ·a $0.7 million decrease in bonuses due primarily to the non-recurring bonuses paid in the prior year period for the completion of the sale of our Content Delivery business; and  

 ·a $0.6 million decrease in severance related to our former CEO that was terminated in conjunction with the sale of our Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017.  


At this time, we do not expect a significant increase in expenses for our operations as our management team believes it can manage the business without adding significant staffing resources. 

Provision for Credit Losses. We established a provision for credit losses specifically for the MCAs that we began participating in during the second quarter of our fiscal year 2019. The allowance for credit losses for MCAs is established at the time of purchase through a provision for losses charged to our statement of operations based on historical performance experienced by an industry peer group. Losses are charged against the allowance when management believes that the future collection of principal is unlikely. Subsequent recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance. 




 ·the increase in cash resulting from the sale of our Content Delivery business in December 2017;  

 ·increasing interest rates on cash equivalent balances;  

 ·investment in higher yielding debt securities in the current year period; and  

 ·accretion of discounts on purchased debt securities.  

Dividend income. In the latter half of our fiscal year 2018, we began investing a portion of our business sale proceeds in equity securities, some of which declared and paid dividends during the three months ended December 31, 2018. 

Unrealized loss on equity securities, net. In the latter half of our fiscal year 2018, we began investing a portion of our business sale proceeds in equity securities. Upon our adoption of ASU No. 2016-01 on July 1, 2018, changes in fair value of equity securities are recorded within the consolidated statement of operations as a net unrealized gain (loss) on investments. During the three months ended December 31, 2018, we recorded a $1.5 million unrealized loss on investments within our consolidated statement of operations as a fair value adjustment to our equity securities investments. 

Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Income Taxes. We sold the Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017. Our income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, for the three months ended December 31, 2017 includes the financial results of the Content Delivery business for that period, as further described in Note 3, “Discontinued Operations,” to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. 

Results of Operations for the Six Months Ended December 31, 2018 Compared to the Six Months Ended December 31, 2017 

Interest Income on Commercial Loans. We created Recur Holdings LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, during the first quarter of our fiscal year 2019. Through Recur Holdings LLC we conduct, hold and manage our existing and future real estate operations. During the six months ended December 31, 2018, we earned $0.3 million of interest income on eight mortgage and other commercial loans with an average aggregate carrying value of $5.4 million during the period and a weighted average annualized yield of 10.9%. 


MCA Income. In December 2018, we began participating in the MCA industry by indirectly advancing funds to merchants through a third-party originator that is a leader in the MCA sector. We generated $0.2 million of income from MCAs during the period and expect to fund additional MCAs in the remaining quarters of our fiscal year 2019. 


 ·a $1.9 million decrease in stock-based compensation expense, primarily resulting from the acceleration of vesting of restricted stock awards in the prior year due to the change of control triggered by the sale of our Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017;  

 ·a $0.8 million decrease in bonuses due primarily to the non-recurring bonuses paid in the prior year period for the completion of the sale of our Content Delivery business, and secondarily for annual incentive plan bonuses for operating results for the first half of the prior fiscal year;  

 ·a $0.6 million decrease in severance primarily related to our former CEO that was terminated in conjunction with the sale of our Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017;  

 ·a $0.3 million decrease in personnel costs, as we have reduced the number of employees from continuing operations subsequent to the sale of the Content Delivery business; and  

 ·a $0.2 million decrease in Board fees. In the first quarter of our prior fiscal year we incurred fees attributable to the resignation of three of our independent directors that did not recur in the current year period. Additionally, in the first quarter of the prior fiscal year we reduced certain recurring Board fees for our remaining Board members.  

At this time, we do not expect a significant increase in expenses for our operations as our management team believes it can manage the business without adding significant staffing resources. 

Provision for Credit Losses. We established a provision for credit losses specifically for the MCAs that we began participating in during the second quarter of our fiscal year 2019. The allowance for credit losses for MCAs is established at the time of purchase through a provision for losses charged to our statement of operations based on historical performance experienced by an industry peer group. Losses are charged against the allowance when management believes that the future collection of principal is unlikely. Subsequent recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance. 




 ·the increase in cash resulting from the sale of our Content Delivery business in December 2017;  

 ·increasing interest rates on cash equivalents;  

 ·investment in higher yielding debt securities in the current year period; and  

 ·accretion of discounts on purchased debt securities.  


Dividend income. In the latter half of our fiscal year 2018 we began investing a portion of our business sale proceeds in equity securities, some of which declared and paid dividends during the six months ended December 31, 2018. 

Net realized gain on investments. During the first quarter of our fiscal year 2019 we sold our investment position in certain debt and equity securities for which we recognized a $0.2 million realized gain for the six months ended December 31, 2018. 

Unrealized loss on equity securities, net. In the latter half of our fiscal year 2018, we began investing a portion of our business sale proceeds in equity securities. Upon our adoption of ASU No. 2016-01 on July 1, 2018, changes in fair value of equity securities are recorded within the consolidated statement of operations as a net realized gain (loss) on investments. During the six months ended December 31, 2018, we recorded a $2.0 million unrealized loss on investments within our consolidated statement of operations as a fair value adjustment to our equity securities investments. 

Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Income Taxes. We sold the Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017. Our income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, for the six months ended December 31, 2017 includes the financial results of the Content Delivery business for that period, which is further described in Note 3, “Discontinued Operations,” to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. 

Liquidity and Capital Resources 


 ·our future access to capital;  

 ·our exploration and evaluation of strategic alternatives and development of new operating assets;  

 ·our ability to collect on our commercial loans and advances receivable;  

 ·the number of countries in which we operate, which may require maintenance of minimum cash levels in each country and, in certain cases, may restrict the repatriation of cash, by requiring us to maintain levels of capital;  

 ·our ongoing operating expenses; and  

 ·potential liquidation of the Company pursuant to an organized plan of liquidation.  

Uses and Sources of Cash 

Cash Flows from Operating Activities 

We used $0.1 million and $3.6 million of cash for operating activities during the six months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Operating cash usage during the six months ended December 31, 2018 was primarily attributable to operating costs during the period exceeding cash generating income, as approximately $0.9 million of our income for the period was from non-cash accretion and payment-in-kind interest. Operating cash flows during the six months ending December 31, 2017 were primarily attributable to the timing of payments made against our accounts payable to settle the previous period’s transaction costs related to the sale of our Real-Time business in fiscal year 2017, inventory purchases and accrued compensation. 

Cash Flows from Investing Activities 

During the six months ended December 31, 2018, we funded $4.5 million of commercial loans, most of which were mortgage loans through our real estate operating subsidiary, Recur Holdings LLC. Our mortgage loans typically require interest only payments until maturity or payoff. We received $0.7 million of cash from principal payments during the six months ended December 31, 2018, as one mortgage loan was paid off during the period. We received approximately $1.2 million of cash for principal payment on a commercial revolving credit facility from the borrower who regularly draws from and pays principal on the revolving credit facility to support its working capital needs. 


In December 2018, we entered into an arrangement with a leading MCA originator to participate in funding its MCA originations. We made an initial advance of $5 million to the originator, who in turn advanced these funds to merchants as part of a syndication. As advances have been collected from the merchants, we have used the collected funds to fund additional MCAs. Through December 31, 2018, we have funded $5.9 million in MCAs and collected $0.9 million of merchant receivables as repayment for these advances. Additionally, we provided a $2 million cash advance to an aviation business to fund the deposit required for the recipient’s aircraft purchases for up to six months, in exchange for paying us an upfront fee. 

Our remaining investing activities consisted of $8.0 million in purchases and $6.2 million in maturities or sales of debt and equity securities for the purpose of funding our operating expenses as we continue to evolve our real estate operating business and actively search for additional operating businesses to acquire. 



Cash Flows from Financing Activities 


In the prior fiscal year six-month period, we paid two quarterly cash dividends, each for $0.12 per share, and $2.3 million in aggregate. On October 27, 2017, we announced the Board of Directors’ decision to suspend future dividends after the payment of the December 2017 quarterly dividend while the Board considers potential acquisition targets and alternative uses of our remaining assets. 

Liquidity 

We had working capital (current assets less current liabilities) of $50.7 million at December 31, 2018, compared to working capital of $55.3 million at June 30, 2018. At December 31, 2018, we had no material commitments for capital expenditures. 

As of December 31, 2018, less than 1.0% of our cash was in foreign accounts and there is no expectation that any foreign cash would need to be transferred from these foreign accounts to cover U.S. operations in the next 12 months. Based upon our existing cash balances, equity securities and available-for-sale-term investments, historical cash usage, and anticipated operating cash flow in the current fiscal year, we believe that existing U.S. cash balances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated working capital requirements for at least the next 12 months from the issuance date of this report. 


Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 

We had no material off-balance sheet arrangements as of December 31, 2018. 

Recent Accounting Guidance 

See Note 2, “Recent Accounting Guidance,” to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a full description of recent accounting standards including the respective expected dates of adoption and the expected effects on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. 

Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 

Certain statements made or incorporated by reference in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q may constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the federal securities laws. When used or incorporated by reference in this report, the words “believes,” “expects,” “estimates,” “anticipates,” “intends”, and similar expressions, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Statements regarding future events and developments, our future performance, payment of dividends, ability to utilize our net deferred tax assets and availability of earnings and profits with respect to dividend income, as well as our expectations, beliefs, plans, estimates or projections relating to the future and current assessments of business opportunities, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of these laws. Examples of our forward-looking statements in this report include, but are not limited to: the ability of the Board of Directors and Asset Management Committee to identify suitable business opportunities and acquisition targets and the Company’s ability to consummate a transaction with such acquisition targets; our ability to successfully develop our real estate operations; expectations to fund additional MCAs; the impact of any strategic initiatives we may undertake; the impact of the current reestablishment of and potential for future release of our tax valuation allowances on future income tax provisions and income taxes paid; expected level of capital additions; our expected cash position; the impact of interest rate changes and fluctuation in currency exchange rates; our sufficiency of cash; and the impact of litigation and the payment of any declared dividends. These statements are based on beliefs and assumptions of our management, which are based on currently available information. All forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events to differ materially from those projected. The risks and uncertainties which could affect our financial condition or results of operations include, without limitation: uncertainty caused by delisting of the Company’s stock on The Nasdaq Stock Market and transfer of our stock listing to the OTCQB Venture Market; the process of evaluating strategic alternatives; the Company’s ability to compete with experienced investors in the acquisition of one or more businesses; the Company’s ability to consummate proposed acquisition transactions; the Company’s ability to utilize its NOLs to offset cash taxes, in general, and in the event of an ownership change as defined by the Internal Revenue Code; changes in and related uncertainties caused by changes in applicable tax laws, the current macroeconomic environment generally and with respect to acquisitions and the financing thereof; continuing unevenness of the global economic recovery; the availability of debt or equity financing to support any liquidity needs; global terrorism; and earthquakes, tsunamis, floods and other natural disasters. 

Our forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and speak only as of the date of such statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of future events, new information or otherwise, except as may be required by federal securities laws. 

Other important risk factors that could cause actual results to differ from any forward-looking statements made in this report are discussed in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018 and in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in this report or elsewhere herein. 

 Item 3.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  

Pursuant to Item 305(e) of Regulation S-K (Section 229.305(e)), the Company is not required to provide the information required by this Item as it is a “smaller reporting company” as defined by Rule 229.10(f)(1). 


 Item 4.Controls and Procedures  

Evaluation of Controls and Procedures 

We conducted an evaluation as of December 31, 2018, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures. The term “disclosure controls and procedures,” as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the company’s management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Our management concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2018. 

Changes in Internal Control 

There were no changes to our internal controls over financial reporting during the quarter ended December 31, 2018 that materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal controls over financial reporting. 

Part II - Other Information 

 Item 1.Legal Proceedings  

We are not presently involved in any material litigation. However, we are, from time to time, party to various routine legal proceedings arising out of our business. 

 Item 1A.Risk Factors   

There have been no material changes in our risk factors from those included in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018, except as noted below. 

There can be no assurance that we will complete the acquisition of an 80% interest in LuxeMark, which acquisition currently is under a non-binding letter of intent. If we do not complete this acquisition, we will have expended significant expenses and management resources without our shareholders realizing the potential benefits. 

There can be no assurance that we will complete the acquisition of an 80% interest in LuxeMark as discussed under a non-binding letter of intent under the terms set forth in the letter of intent, or at all, because the letter of intent is not binding on us or on LuxeMark. Our acquisition of such interest is subject to us negotiating and executing with LuxeMark a mutually acceptable definitive and binding purchase agreement with respect to the business, which we expect will contain a number of conditions to closing the acquisition, including (i) our completion of satisfactory due diligence with respect to LuxeMark’s business, and (ii) satisfaction of customary closing conditions and, dependent on the results of due diligence and negotiation of the definitive documents between the parties, may require material modifications to the terms set forth in the letter of intent. There can be no assurance that LuxeMark will be willing to proceed with a transaction, that we will be able to negotiate and execute a satisfactory definitive purchase agreement with LuxeMark, that our due diligence will be satisfactory, or that the conditions to closing will be satisfied. 

If we are unable to complete the acquisition of an 80% interest in LuxeMark, we will have expended significant expenses and management resources related to due diligence, legal and accounting work undertaken for the failed acquisition without our shareholders realizing any of the potential benefits of such acquisition. 


We participate in the MCA industry, which presents a number of unique risks. 

In December 2018, we acquired certain advance assets from an MCA originator and funder that is a leader in the MCA sector. An MCA funder provides small businesses with cash advances in return for the purchase of an amount of the small business’s future receipts. This type of transaction is not characterized or structured as a loan. Small businesses typically seek these advances for working capital purposes to finance their purchase of inventory, equipment, or to otherwise address immediate business needs. This business presents a number of unique risks, including the illiquidity of the cash advances; our critical reliance on certain individuals to operate the business; collection and cash advance repayment issues and challenges given that the MCAs are typically unsecured; and sensitivity to general economic conditions. 

Because real estate assets are relatively illiquid, we may not be able to diversify, liquidate, or monetize our real estate portfolio in response to changes in economic and other relevant conditions, which may result in losses. The illiquidity of our real estate portfolio may also result in us seeking financing in order to expand our operations while maintaining sufficient liquid assets to execute our business plan. 

Real estate assets are relatively illiquid. A variety of factors could make it difficult for us to modify our real estate portfolio in response to changing economic or other relevant conditions, thus creating risk of loss associated with those changed conditions. In addition, we may seek to restrict the percentage of our assets that are contained in illiquid real estate assets by seeking financing to continue expansion of our real estate operations while maintaining sufficient liquid assets to execute our business plan and invest in other value producing assets, including acquisition of additional businesses and assets. In addition, reserving a certain percentage of our liquid assets may benefit our financial performance by increasing our ability to modify our operations to respond to adverse economic or other relevant conditions. Any financing that we obtain creates risks normally associated with financing, including the risk that our cash flow is insufficient to make timely payments of interest or principal. 

We may engage in real estate transactions or other strategic opportunities that involve property types or structures with which we have less familiarity, thereby increasing our risk of loss. 

We may decide to participate in real estate transactions and other strategic opportunities in which we have limited or no prior experience. When engaging in such transactions, we may not be successful in our diligence and underwriting efforts. We may also be unsuccessful in preserving value if conditions deteriorate and we may expose ourselves to unknown substantial risks. Furthermore, engaging in unfamiliar transactions may require additional management time and attention relative to transactions with which we are more familiar. All of these factors increase our risk of loss. 

We may continue to grow our business through acquisitions, which entails substantial risk. 

We may continue growing our operating business through one or more acquisitions. Such acquisitions entail substantial risk. During our due diligence of such acquisitions, we may not uncover all relevant liabilities and we may have limited, if any, recourse against the sellers. We may also incur significant transaction and integration costs in connection with such acquisitions. Further, we may not successfully integrate the acquired assets or businesses into our existing business and operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. In addition, post-closing expansion of any acquired assets and businesses may subject us to additional costs or make us vulnerable to regulations or rules that were not assessed prior to acquisition. 

We may be limited in the types of acquisitions that we can pursue in order to preserve use of our NOLs. 

We currently have NOLs valued at $56.1 million as of June 30, 2018. We may be able to achieve greater realization of the value of our NOLs with certain business or asset acquisitions. There is no guarantee that we will be able to find or consummate an acquisition that allows for utilization of our NOLs and we may engage in acquisitions that do not facilitate use of the NOLs. In any acquisition we may be limited by our available cash and cash equivalents or ability to obtain financing in order to preserve use of our NOLs. Use of our NOLs can be impaired by certain shift in the ownership of our common stock and thus we are limited in our ability to use stock in an acquisition for NOL preservation purposes. Alternatively, while we have not identified or committed to any such transactions, we may identify acquisitions that we believe will provide value sufficient to forego preservation of the NOLs to participate in the acquisition opportunity. 


 Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  





 Item 6.Exhibits  











SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 


