UNITED STATES 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 



x QUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 

For the quarterly period ended September 30, 2018 

or  

¨ TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 




CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 



 (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)   (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)  

4375 River Green Parkway, Suite 210, Duluth, Georgia 30096 





Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files). Yes þ No o 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 


If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ¨ 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). 

Yes ¨ No þ 

Number of shares of the Company’s common stock, par value $0.01 per share, outstanding as of November 5, 2018 was 9,104,896. 

CCUR Holdings, Inc.  

Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q 

For the Quarterly Period Ended September 30, 2018 

Table of Contents 



Part I - Financial Information 

 Item 1.Financial Statements  

CCUR Holdings, Inc.  

Consolidated Balance Sheets (Unaudited) 



The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 


CCUR Holdings, Inc. 

Consolidated STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited) 



The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 


ccur holdings, inc. 

Consolidated STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE LOSS(Unaudited) 



The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 


ccur holdings, inc. 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Unaudited) 



The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 


CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 


 1.Overview of Business and Basis of Presentation 

References herein to “CCUR Holdings,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” or “our” refer to CCUR Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries unless the context specifically indicates otherwise. CCUR Holdings was formerly known as Concurrent Computer Corporation and changed its name on January 2, 2018. 

In May 2017, we sold our Real-Time business consisting of real-time Linux operating system versions, development and performance optimization tools, simulation software and other system software combined, in many cases, with computer platforms and services. These real-time products were sold to a wide variety of companies seeking high performance, real-time computer solutions in the defense, aerospace, financial and automotive markets around the world. 

On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our content delivery and storage business (the “Content Delivery business”) and other related assets to Vecima Networks, Inc. (“Vecima”) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima. Substantially all liabilities associated with the Content Delivery business were assigned to Vecima as part of the transaction. The Content Delivery business provided advanced applications focused on storing, protecting, transforming, and delivering high value media. The Content Delivery business consisted of (i) software, hardware and services for intelligently streaming video content to a variety of consumer devices and storing and managing content in the network and (ii) Aquari™ Storage, a unified scale-out storage solutions product that is ideally suited for a wide range of enterprise IT and video applications that require advanced performance, very large storage capacities, and a high degree of reliability. 

Results of the Content Delivery business are retrospectively reported as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for all periods presented. Prior year information has been adjusted to conform to the current year presentation. Unless otherwise stated, the information disclosed in the footnotes accompanying the consolidated financial statements refers to continuing operations. See Note 3 “Discontinued Operations” for more information regarding results from discontinued operations. 

In fiscal year 2018, following the sale of the Content Delivery business, we began developing a real estate operation initially through, among other things, making a number of commercial loans secured by real property. Based on the success of these activities, including the yield characteristics of these loans, and management’s experience in the real estate area, we created Recur Holdings LLC, a Delaware limited liability company wholly owned by the Company, during the first quarter of our fiscal year 2019. Through Recur Holdings LLC, we conduct, hold and manage our existing and future real estate operations. 

The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements included herein have been prepared by the Company pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted pursuant to applicable rules and regulations. In the opinion of management, all adjustments of a normal recurring nature which were considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included. The year-end consolidated balance sheet data as of June 30, 2018 was derived from our audited consolidated financial statements and may not include all disclosures required by U.S. GAAP. The results of operations for the three months ended September 30, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the entire year. These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018 filed with the SEC on September 7, 2018. 

Smaller Reporting Company 

We meet the SEC’s definition of a “Smaller Reporting Company,” and therefore qualify for the SEC’s reduced disclosure requirements for smaller reporting companies. 


CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 


Use of Estimates 

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. 

Investments in Debt and Equity Securities 

We determine the appropriate classification of investments in debt securities at the time of purchase and reevaluate such determinations at each balance sheet date. Debt securities are classified as held-to-maturity when the Company has the positive intent and ability to hold the securities to maturity. Held-to-maturity securities are recorded as either short term or long term in the consolidated balance sheet based on contractual maturity date and are stated at amortized cost. Marketable securities that are bought and held principally for the purpose of selling them in the near term are classified as trading securities and are reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses recognized in earnings. Debt securities not classified as held-to-maturity or as trading are classified as available-for-sale, and are carried at fair market value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in the determination of comprehensive income and reported in stockholders’ equity. 



In some cases, our debt investments may provide for a portion of the interest payable to be payment-in-kind (“PIK”) interest. To the extent interest is PIK, it is payable through the increase of the principal amount of the loan by the amount of the interest due on the then-outstanding principal amount of the loan. 

Advances Receivable 

During the three months ended September 30, 2018, we provided a $2,000 cash advance to an aviation business to fund the deposit required for the recipient’s aircraft purchases for up to six months, in exchange for paying us an upfront fee and a guaranty of the full repayment obligation from the principal of the third-party business. The fee is earned over the six-month advance period and is reported as part of other interest income within the statement of operations. Each quarter, we review the carrying value of this cash advance, and determine if an impairment reserve is necessary. As of September 30, 2018, our advance receivable was not impaired. 


CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 


Basic and Diluted Earnings (Loss) per Share 

Basic earnings (loss) per share is computed by dividing income (loss) by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during each year. Diluted earnings (loss) per share is computed by dividing income (loss) by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding including dilutive common share equivalents. Under the treasury stock method, incremental shares representing the number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding if the dilutive potential common shares had been issued are included in the computation. Due to the loss from continuing operations for both periods presented, weighted average common share equivalents of 31,665 and 218,719 for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, were excluded from the calculation as their effect would have been anti-dilutive. 

Fair Value Measurements 

Fair value is defined as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly fashion between market participants at the measurement date. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required or permitted to be either recorded or disclosed at fair value, we consider the most advantageous market in which it would transact and assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability. 


 ·Level 1 Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; 

 ·Level 2 Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are either directly or indirectly observable; and 

 ·Level 3 Assets or liabilities for which fair value is based on valuation models with significant unobservable pricing inputs and which include the use of management estimates.  



CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 





Recently Issued and Adopted Accounting Guidance 



CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 


Recent Accounting Guidance Not Yet Adopted  



Content Delivery Business 

As noted above, on December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of the Content Delivery business and other related assets to Vecima pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima for a purchase price of $29,000 (subject to an adjustment for net working capital). The sale included our Content Delivery business assets and related liabilities in the United States, United Kingdom, and Germany, as well as the sale of all equity in our Japanese subsidiary. 


Results associated with the Content Delivery business are classified within income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. Operating expenses recorded in discontinued operations include costs incurred directly in support of the Content Delivery business. 




CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 





Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities Investments 



Fixed maturity debt securities are classified as “available for sale”, and as such, adjustments to fair value are recorded within other comprehensive income on the consolidated balance sheet as unrealized gains and losses. Upon our adoption of ASU 2016-01, effective July 1, 2018, changes in fair value of equity securities are recorded within the consolidated statement of operations as a net realized gain (loss) on investments. During the three months ended September 30, 2018, we recorded a $457 unrealized loss on investments within our consolidated statement of operations as a fair value adjustment to our equity securities investments. During the three months ended September 30, 2018, we recorded a $201 realized gain on the sale of debt and equity securities, as reported within our consolidated statement of operations. 


CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



The amortized cost and fair value of fixed maturity securities available-for-sale as of September 30, 2018 are shown by contractual maturity in the table below. Actual maturities can differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties. 



Components of Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes 






CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



We are continuing to evaluate the impact of TCJA in light of the guidance that the U.S. Treasury and various state taxing authorities are releasing. At this time, we do not believe there will be any material changes to the amounts previously provided for the impact of the TCJA. We expect to conclude our analysis during the second quarter of fiscal 2019. 

As a result of the TCJA, we are reassessing our intentions related to our indefinite reinvestment assertion as part of our provisional estimates. Should we decide to no longer indefinitely reinvest such foreign earnings outside the U.S., we would have to adjust the income tax provision in the period such determination is made. We currently have an immaterial amount of cash available for repatriation of less than $35. After the TCJA, there should be no federal income taxes that would be due upon repatriation. Any other impact, such as withholding tax, states taxes, or foreign exchange rate changes, should be immaterial based on the amount of cash held overseas. 

Net Operating Losses 

As of June 30, 2018, we had U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”) of approximately $56,113 for income tax purposes, of which none expire in fiscal year 2019, and the remainder expire at various dates through fiscal year 2037. We recently completed an evaluation of the potential effect of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (the “IRC”) on our ability to utilize these net operating losses. The study concluded that we have not had an ownership change for the period from July 22, 1993 to June 30, 2018; therefore, the NOLs will not be subject to limitation under Section 382. If we experience an ownership change as defined in Section 382 of the IRC, our ability to use these NOLs will be substantially limited, which could therefore significantly impair the value of that asset. We have taken steps to protect the value of our NOLs with a “Tax Asset Preservation Plan” which is described more fully in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended June 30, 2018. 

As of June 30, 2018, we had state NOLs of $33,240. The state NOLs expire according to the rules of each state and expiration will occur between fiscal year 2019 and fiscal year 2037. 

Deferred Tax Assets and Related Valuation Allowances 



CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 


Research and Development Tax Credits 

During the year ended June 30, 2017, we applied for both a U.S. federal and state of Georgia research and development tax credit in the amounts of $719 and $675, respectively, for our fiscal year ending June 30, 2016. For U.S. federal tax purposes, the credit cannot be utilized immediately but will carryforward for a period of 20 years. As we do not expect to be able to realize the benefit of the U.S. federal tax credit carryforward before its expiration, we maintain a full valuation allowance on this item. For the state of Georgia tax credit, we have recorded the credit within both other current assets and other long-term assets with an offset in both accrued expenses and other long-term liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets as of September 30 and June 30, 2018, respectively. As future payroll tax withholdings of our Georgia-based employees become due, we are able to offset the withholding amount dollar-for-dollar against the credit. As a result, as the credit is claimed, we will (1) reduce other current assets and offset the payroll tax liability and (2) reduce accrued expenses and recognize a reduction of operating expenses. 

During the three months ended September 30, 2018 we received $173 of proceeds from prior utilization of our State tax credits. Subsequent to the September 30, 2018 and prior to the filing date of this Form 10Q, we received an additional $376 of proceeds from prior utilization of our State tax credits. 

Unrecognized Tax Benefits 

We have evaluated our unrecognized tax benefits and determined that there has not been a material change in the amount of such benefits for the three months ended September 30, 2018. 


As of September 30, 2018, we had share-based compensation plans which are described in Note 9, “Share-Based Compensation,” to the consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018. We recognize stock compensation expense over the requisite service period of the individual grantees, which generally equals the vesting period. As of September 30, 2018, we had 15,000 stock options outstanding and 60,000 restricted shares outstanding. During the three months ended September 30, 2018, the Company did not grant any equity compensation and no options or restricted stock awards vested, forfeited or canceled. During the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, we recorded $59 and $149, respectively, of share-based compensation within general and administrative expenses of our continuing operations. 


CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



Defined Benefit Plans 



 8.Accounts Payable and Accrued Expenses 



 9.Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss  




CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



Severance Arrangements 

Pursuant to the terms of the employment agreements with the chief financial officer and another employee, employment may be terminated by either the respective employee or us at any time. In the event an agreement is terminated by us without cause, or in certain circumstances terminates constructively or expires, the terminated employee will receive severance compensation for a period from six to 12 months, depending on the employee, and bonus severance. Additionally, if terminated, our chief financial officer will be entitled to COBRA continuation coverage under the Company’s hospitalization and medical plan for the 12-month period following termination. At September 30, 2018, the maximum contingent liability under these agreements was $491. 


 Item 2.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  

The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto which appear elsewhere herein. Except for the historical financial information, many of the matters discussed in this Item 2 may be considered “forward-looking” statements that reflect our plans, estimates and beliefs. Actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section below entitled “Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,” elsewhere herein and in other filings made with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2018. 

References herein to “CCUR Holdings,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our” refer to CCUR Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries unless the context specifically indicates otherwise. CCUR Holdings was formerly known as Concurrent Computer Corporation and changed its name on January 2, 2018. 

References herein to the “current year period” and the “prior year period” refer to the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 

Overview 

In May 2017, we sold our Real-Time business consisting of real-time Linux operating system versions, development and performance optimization tools, simulation software and other system software combined to Real-Time, Inc. pursuant to an Asset and Share Purchase Agreement. 

On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our content delivery and storage business (the “Content Delivery business”) and other related assets to Vecima Networks, Inc. (“Vecima”) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement (the “CDN APA”), dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima. Substantially all assets and liabilities associated with the Content Delivery business were assigned to Vecima as part of the transaction. Results of the Content Delivery business are retrospectively reflected as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for all periods presented (see Note 3, “Discontinued Operations,” to the accompanying consolidated financial statements). Unless otherwise noted, discussion of our business and results of operations in this Form 10-Q refers to our continuing operations. 

A special committee of the Board, the Investment Committee, was established upon the signing of the CDN APA for the purpose of considering alternative means to deploy the proceeds of the sale of the Content Delivery business and other corporate assets to maximize long-term value for our stockholders. Such alternatives include, but are not limited to, evaluating opportunities to acquire all or a controlling interest in one or more operating businesses or assets intended to provide attractive returns for our stockholders and that are intended to result in appreciation in value, a more liquid trading market for our stock, and enhance our ability to utilize our existing U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”). Other than the restrictions set forth in the relevant non-competition and non-solicitation agreement executed by the Company in connection with the disposition of our prior operations, there are no restrictions on the transactions that we can pursue, including with respect to industry sector and geographic location. 

We are actively pursuing business opportunities, including the acquisition of new businesses or assets, as well as developing and managing our current business and assets. We continually identify and evaluate a wide range of opportunities in an effort to reinvest the proceeds of our calendar year 2017 business dispositions and maximize use of other assets such as our NOLs. We believe that these activities will enable us to identify, acquire and grow businesses and assets that will maximize value for all of our stockholders. 

 As part of this effort, our senior management spends a significant portion of its time evaluating potential acquisition and strategic opportunities. We have received referrals with respect to and have performed due diligence assessments on multiple target companies and strategic opportunities in a variety of industries. We work with several financial advisors and consultants on a non-exclusive basis and have been able to filter leads and referrals through diverse channels enabling us to review a wide range of opportunities in a variety of industries. We have not focused our acquisition and strategic efforts on any specific industry, focusing instead on identifying well-priced businesses and assets that we believe have significant growth potential. 


Our acquisition process is focused on identifying fairly- to under-valued businesses that have growth potential. Due to current market conditions, we have faced significant competition from strategic and, in particular, financial buyers which in many instances have raised seller valuation expectations above what we consider to be attractive levels for us and our stockholders. We continue to believe that fairly- and under-valued opportunities exist and are attainable and do not intend to pursue what we consider to be overvalued businesses and assets that we believe may not deliver the levels of returns that we target. 

Recent Events 

On October 2, 2018, we announced that the Company entered into a non-binding letter of intent (the “LOI”) to acquire an 80% membership interest in LuxeMark Capital, LLC (“LuxeMark”), a privately held firm focused on the rapidly growing merchant cash advance sector of the finance industry that provides financing to small and medium-sized businesses. LuxeMark provides syndication capital or leverage to select funding companies within the sector and hopes to expand its business-to-business strategy by increasing the number of qualified funders to which it provides capital nationwide. 

Under the terms of the LOI, the Company will acquire the membership interest for a combination of up to $6 million in cash, and options and stock appreciation rights each payable over four years and subject to the achievement of prescribed financial performance milestones by LuxeMark. Additionally, the Company will commit up to $10 million of syndication capital under a separate agreement with LuxeMark, which amount shall be placed by LuxeMark with its qualified funders. The acquisition and deployment of syndication capital are subject to a number of conditions including the negotiation of definitive documentation and completion of CCUR’s due diligence investigation to CCUR’s satisfaction during a 120-day exclusivity period. 

We expect that the proposed transaction with LuxeMark will provide the Company with two revenue streams generated through (i) the Company’s 80% membership interest and thereby its pro-rated portion of the fee income earned by LuxeMark on its syndicators’ invested capital and (ii) returns received on the $10 million the Company makes available as a LuxeMark syndicator. 


Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 Compared to the Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 

Interest Income on Mortgage Loans. We created Recur Holdings LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, during the first quarter of our fiscal year 2019. Through Recur Holdings LLC we conduct, hold and manage our existing and future real estate operations. During the three months ended September 30, 2018, we earned $0.1 million of interest income on five mortgage loans with an aggregate carrying value of $4.8 million and a weighted average annualized yield of 10.8%. 



 ·a $0.3 million decrease in legal and accounting fees. Prior period fees were higher as a result of incremental services related to evaluation of strategic options and efforts to close the sale of the Content Delivery business; 

 ·a $0.2 million decrease in Board fees. In the first quarter of our prior fiscal year we incurred fees attributable to the resignation of three of our independent directors that did not recur in the current year period. Additionally, in the second quarter of the prior fiscal year we reduced recurring Board fees for our remaining Board members; and 

 ·a $0.1 million decrease in stock-based compensation resulting from the vesting of substantially all of our outstanding equity awards upon the change in control resulting from the sale the Content Delivery business in the prior year, coupled with minimal equity grants leading up to and following the completion of this business sale, which resulted in lower ongoing stock-based compensation expense in the current year period. 

At this time, we do not expect a significant increase in expenses for our real estate operations as our management team has prior experience in this sector and believes it can manage the business without adding significant staffing resources. 




 ·the increase in cash resulting from the sale of our Content Delivery business in December 2017; 

 ·increasing interest rates on money market balances; and 

 ·investment in higher yielding debt securities and cash advances in the current year period. 

Dividend income. In the latter half of our fiscal year 2018 the Company began investing a portion of its business sale proceeds in equity securities, some of which declared and paid dividends during the three months ended September 30, 2018. 

Net Realized and Unrealized Investment Loss. In the latter half of our fiscal year 2018, we began investing a portion of our business sale proceeds in equity securities. Upon our adoption of ASU No. 2016-01 on July 1, 2018, changes in fair value of equity securities are recorded within the consolidated statement of operations as a net realized gain (loss) on investments. During the three months ended September 30, 2018, we recorded a $457 unrealized loss on investments within our consolidated statement of operations as a fair value adjustment to our equity securities investments. This realized loss from the equity investment fair value adjustment was partially offset by a $201 realized gain on the sale of debt and equity securities during the period, resulting in the net realized and unrealized loss on investments of $256 reported within our consolidated statement of operations. 


Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Income Taxes. We sold the Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017. Our income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, for the three months ended September 30, 2017 includes the financial results of the Content Delivery business for that period, which is further described in Note 3, “Discontinued Operations,” to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. 

Liquidity and Capital Resources 


 ·our future access to capital; 

 ·our exploration and evaluation of strategic alternatives and development of new operating assets; 

 ·the number of countries in which we operate, which may require maintenance of minimum cash levels in each country and, in certain cases, may restrict the repatriation of cash, by requiring us to maintain levels of capital; 

 ·our ongoing operating expenses; and 

 ·potential liquidation of the Company pursuant to an organized plan of liquidation. 

Uses and Sources of Cash 

Cash Flows from Operating Activities 

We used $0.1 million and $3.5 million of cash for operating activities during the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Operating cash usage during the three months ended September 30, 2018 was primarily attributable to operating costs during the period exceeding cash generating income, as approximately $0.5 million of our income for the period was from non-cash accretion and payment-in-kind interest. Operating cash flows during the three months ending September 30, 2017 were primarily attributable to the timing of payments made against our accounts payable to settle the previous quarter’s transaction costs related to the sale of our Real-Time business, inventory purchases and accrued compensation. 

Cash Flows from Investing Activities 

During the three months ended September 30, 2018, we originated $1.8 million of short-term mortgage loans through our new real estate operating subsidiary, Recur Holdings LLC, of which $1.4 million was on deposit with an escrow agent at the end of the prior fiscal year. Additionally, we provided a $2.0 million cash advance to an aviation business to fund the deposit required for the recipient’s aircraft purchases for up to six months, in exchange for paying us an upfront fee. Our remaining investing activities consisted of $1.6 million in purchases and $6.2 million in maturities or sales of debt and equity securities for the purpose of funding our operating expenses as we continue to evolve our real estate operating business and actively search for additional operating businesses to acquire. 


Cash Flows from Financing Activities 



Liquidity 

We had working capital (current assets less current liabilities) of $55.8 million at September 30, 2018, compared to working capital of $55.3 million at June 30, 2018. At September 30, 2018, we had no material commitments for capital expenditures. 

As of September 30, 2018, less than 0.1% of our cash was in foreign accounts and there is no expectation that any foreign cash would need to be transferred from these foreign accounts to cover U.S. operations in the next 12 months. Based upon our existing cash balances, equity securities and available-for-sale-term investments, historical cash usage, and anticipated operating cash flow in the current fiscal year, we believe that existing U.S. cash balances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated working capital requirements for at least the next 12 months. 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 

We had no material off-balance sheet arrangements as of September 30, 2018. 

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

The SEC defines “critical accounting estimates” as those that require application of management’s most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain and may change in subsequent periods. Our critical accounting policies and estimates are disclosed under the section “Application of Critical Accounting Policies” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018.  

Recent Accounting Guidance 

See Note 2, “Recent Accounting Guidance,” to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a full description of recent accounting standards including the respective expected dates of adoption and the expected effects on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. 

Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements  

Certain statements made or incorporated by reference in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q may constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the federal securities laws. When used or incorporated by reference in this report, the words “believes,” “expects,” “estimates,” “anticipates,” and similar expressions, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Statements regarding future events and developments, our future performance, payment of dividends, ability to utilize our net deferred tax assets and availability of earnings and profits with respect to dividend income, as well as our expectations, beliefs, plans, estimates or projections relating to the future and current assessments of business opportunities, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of these laws. Examples of our forward-looking statements in this report include, but are not limited to,; the ability of the Board of Directors and Investment Committee to identify suitable business opportunities and acquisition targets and the Company’s ability to consummate a transaction with such acquisition targets; our ability to successfully develop our real estate operations, the impact of any strategic initiatives we may undertake; the impact of the current reestablishment of and potential for future release of our tax valuation allowances on future income tax provisions and income taxes paid; expected level of capital additions; our expected cash position; the impact of interest rate changes and fluctuation in currency exchange rates; our sufficiency of cash; and the impact of litigation and the payment of any declared dividends. These statements are based on beliefs and assumptions of our management, which are based on currently available information. All forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events to differ materially from those projected. The risks and uncertainties which could affect our financial condition or results of operations include, without limitation: uncertainty caused by the Company’s suspension of trading on The Nasdaq Stock Market and subsequent transfer of our stock listing to the OTCQB Venture Market; the process of evaluating strategic alternatives; the Company’s ability to compete with experienced investors in the acquisition of one or more businesses, the Company’s ability to consummate proposed acquisition transactions; the Company’s ability to utilize its NOLs to offset cash taxes, in general, and in the event of an ownership change as defined by the Internal Revenue Code; changes in and related uncertainties caused by changes in applicable tax laws, the current macroeconomic environment generally and with respect to acquisitions and the financing thereof; continuing unevenness of the global economic recovery; the availability of debt or equity financing to support any liquidity needs; global terrorism; and earthquakes, tsunamis, floods and other natural disasters. 


Our forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and speak only as of the date of such statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of future events, new information or otherwise, except as may be required by federal securities laws. 

Other important risk factors that could cause actual results to differ from any forward-looking statements made in this report are discussed in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018 and in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in this report or elsewhere herein. 

 Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  

Pursuant to Item 305(e) of Regulation S-K (Section 229.305(e)), the Company is not required to provide the information required by this Item as it is a “smaller reporting company” as defined by Rule 229.10(f)(1). 

 Item 4. Controls and Procedures  

Evaluation of Controls and Procedures 

We conducted an evaluation as of September 30, 2018, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures. The term “disclosure controls and procedures,” as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the company’s management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Our management concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of September 30, 2018. 

Changes in Internal Control 

There were no changes to our internal controls over financial reporting during the quarter ended September 30, 2018 that materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal controls over financial reporting. 

Part II - Other Information 

 Item 1. Legal Proceedings  

We are not presently involved in any material litigation. However, we are, from time to time, party to various routine legal proceedings arising out of our business. 

 Item 1A. Risk Factors  

There have been no material changes in our risk factors from those included in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018, except as noted below. 

There can be no assurance that we will complete the acquisition of an 80% interest in LuxeMark that we have under a non-binding letter of intent. 


There can be no assurance that we will complete the acquisition of an 80% interest in LuxeMark that we have under a non-binding letter of intent under the terms set forth in the letter of intent, or at all, because the letter of intent is not binding on us or on LuxeMark. Our acquisition of such interest is subject to us negotiating and executing with LuxeMark a mutually acceptable definitive and binding purchase agreement with respect to the business, which we expect will contain a number of conditions to closing the acquisition, including (i) our completion of satisfactory due diligence with respect to LuxeMark’s business, and (ii) satisfaction of customary closing conditions and, dependent on the results of due diligence and negotiation of the definitive documents between the parties, may require material modifications to the terms set forth in the letter of intent. There can be no assurance that LuxeMark will be willing to proceed with a transaction, that we will be able to negotiate and execute a satisfactory definitive purchase agreement with LuxeMark, that our due diligence will be satisfactory, or that the conditions to closing will be satisfied. 

If we do not complete the acquisition of an 80% interest in LuxeMark, we will have expended substantial significant expenses and management resources without our shareholders realizing the potential benefits. 

If we are unable to complete the acquisition of an 80% interest in LuxeMark, we will have expended significant expenses and management resources related to due diligence, legal and accounting work undertaken for the failed acquisitions without our shareholders realizing any of the potential benefits of such acquisition. 

 Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  





 Item 6.Exhibits  



 4.2   Form of Series B Participating Preferred Stock Certificate (incorporated by reference to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form 8-A (File No. 001-37706)).   









SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 


