UNITED STATES 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 





x QUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 

For the quarterly period ended September 30, 2019 

or 

 ¨ TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 




CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 




 (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)   (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)  

4375 River Green Parkway, Suite 210, Duluth, Georgia 30096 





 Title of each class Trading Symbol(s) Name of each exchange on which registered 

  None      


Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files). Yes þ  No ¨ 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 


If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ¨ 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). 

Yes ¨ No þ 

Number of shares of the Company’s common stock, par value $0.01 per share, outstanding as of October 31, 2019 was 8,923,657. 

CCUR Holdings, Inc.  

Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q 

For the Quarterly Period Ended September 30, 2019 

Table of Contents 



Part I - Financial Information 

 Item 1.Financial Statements 

CCUR Holdings, Inc.  

Consolidated Balance Sheets (Unaudited) 



The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 


CCUR Holdings, Inc. 

Consolidated STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited) 



The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 


ccur holdings, inc. 

Consolidated STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE IncomE (LOSS) (Unaudited) 



The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements 


ccur holdings, inc. 

Consolidated STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY (Unaudited) 




The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 


 ccur holdings, inc. 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Unaudited) 



The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 


CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

 1.Overview of the Business and Basis of Presentation 

References herein to “CCUR Holdings,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” or “our” refer to CCUR Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, unless the context specifically indicates otherwise. 

During the first quarter of our fiscal year 2019 we created Recur Holdings LLC (“Recur”), a Delaware limited liability company wholly owned by the Company. Through Recur we conduct, hold and manage our existing and future real estate operations. 

On February 13, 2019, through our newly formed subsidiary, LM Capital Solutions, LLC (“LMCS”), we closed on a purchase agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”) to acquire the operating assets of LuxeMark Capital, LLC (“Old LuxeMark”) (the “LuxeMark Acquisition”). LMCS operates through its syndication network to facilitate merchant cash advance (“MCA”) funding by connecting a network of MCA originators (sometimes referred to herein as “funders”) with syndicate participants who provide those originators with capital by purchasing participation interests in funded MCAs. In addition, LMCS provides reporting and other administrative services to its syndication network. The Company holds an 80% interest in LMCS, with the remaining 20% held by Old LuxeMark. LMCS does business as “LuxeMark Capital” with daily operations led by the three principals of Old LuxeMark. Through LMCS, we (i) continue to operate the Old LuxeMark syndication network by sourcing syndication funding for MCA originators and providing reporting and other administrative services in exchange for a syndication fee, (ii) directly purchase participation interests from MCA originators for LMCS’ own MCA portfolio and (iii) provide loans to MCA originators to fund the MCAs themselves, which generates interest income and syndication fee income from servicing those MCAs. 


The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements included herein have been prepared by the Company pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted pursuant to applicable rules and regulations. In the opinion of management, all adjustments of a normal recurring nature which were considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included. The year-end consolidated balance sheet data as of June 30, 2019 was derived from our audited consolidated financial statements and may not include all disclosures required by U.S. GAAP. The results of operations for the three months ended September 30, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the entire year. These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019 filed with the SEC on August 28, 2019. 

The significant accounting policies used in preparing these consolidated financial statements are consistent with the accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019, except for those as described below. 

Commercial and Mortgage Loans and Loan Losses 

We have potential exposure to transaction losses as a result of uncollectability of commercial mortgage and other loans. We base our reserve estimates on prior charge-off history and currently available information that is indicative of a transaction loss. We reflect additions to the reserve in current operating results, while we make charges to the reserve when we incur losses. We reflect recoveries in the reserve for transaction losses as collected. 

We have the intent and ability to hold these loans to maturity or payoff and as such, have classified these loans as held-for-investment. These loans are reported on the balance sheet at the outstanding principal balance adjusted for any charge-offs, allowance for loan losses, and deferred fees or costs. As of September 30, 2019, we have not recorded any charge-offs, and believe that an allowance for loan losses is not required. 


CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

Land Investment 

Land investment assets are stated at acquired cost. Pre-acquisition and development costs are capitalized. Gains and losses resulting from the disposition of real estate are included in operations. As of September 30, 2019, all land held by the Company is considered to be held for use and development. 

Basic and Diluted Earnings (Loss) per Share 

Basic earnings (loss) per share is computed by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during each fiscal year. Diluted earnings (loss) per share is computed by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding including dilutive common share equivalents. Under the treasury stock method, incremental shares representing the number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding if the dilutive potential common shares had been issued are included in the computation. Weighted-average common share equivalents of 9,757 and 31,665 for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, were excluded from the calculation, as their effect would have been anti-dilutive. 



Fair Value Measurements 

Fair value is defined as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly fashion between market participants at the measurement date. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required or permitted to be either recorded or disclosed at fair value, we consider the most advantageous market in which it would transact and assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability. 


 ·Level 1 Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; 

 ·Level 2 Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are either directly or indirectly observable; and 

 ·Level 3 Assets or liabilities for which fair value is based on valuation models with significant unobservable pricing inputs and which include the use of management estimates. 

Our investment portfolio consists of money market funds, equity securities, and corporate debt. All highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less when purchased are considered to be cash equivalents. All cash equivalents are carried at cost less any unamortized premium or discount, which approximates fair value. All investments with original maturities of more than three months are classified as available-for-sale, trading or held-to-maturity investments. Our marketable securities, other than warrants and equity securities, are classified as available-for-sale and are reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, reported in stockholders’ equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income or loss. Warrants to purchase stock are held as trading securities and are reported at fair value with gains and losses reported within the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. Interest on securities is recorded in interest income. Dividends paid by securities are recorded in dividend income. Any realized gains or losses are reported in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. Equity securities are reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses resulting from adjustments to fair value reported within our consolidated statements of operations. 


CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

We used Level 3 inputs to determine the fair value of our preferred stock investments. The Company has elected the measurement alternative and will record the investments at cost adjusted for observable price changes for an identical or similar investment of the same issuer. Observable price changes and impairment indicators will be assessed each reporting period. 

We also use Level 3 inputs to determine the fair value of our contingent consideration and common stock purchase warrants related to the LuxeMark Acquisition. The Company uses a Monte Carlo simulation technique to value the performance-based contingent consideration and common stock purchase warrants. This technique is a probabilistic model which relies on repeated random sampling to obtain numerical results. The concluded values represent the means of those results. 





CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 








CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 


Recently Issued and Adopted Accounting Guidance 

In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2016-02, Leases (“ASU 2016-02”), on the recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet. The new guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The new guidance changes the current accounting guidance related to the recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities. We early adopted the new guidance effective June 30, 2019 as further disclosed in Note 13 to these financial statements. 

In February 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-02, Reclassification of Certain Tax Effects from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Topic 220) (“ASU 2018-02”), which permits entities to reclassify the tax effects stranded in accumulated other comprehensive income as a result of recent United States federal tax reforms to retained earnings. Entities can elect to apply the guidance retrospectively or in the period of adoption. This guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018 and interim periods therein, with early adoption permitted. We adopted the new guidance effective July 1, 2019 with no material impact on our consolidated financial statements or disclosures. 

Recent Accounting Guidance Not Yet Adopted 

The recent accounting guidance not yet adopted is consistent with the information provided in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019. 


CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 


Fixed-Maturity and Equity Securities Investments 






During the three months ended September 30, 2019, we reported a $469,000 unrealized gain on equity securities, net within our consolidated statement of operations. Additionally, we reported a $1,076,000 realized gain on the sale of debt and equity securities within our consolidated statement of operations. 


CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

Maturities of Fixed-Maturity Securities Available-for-Sale 

The amortized cost and fair values of fixed-maturity securities available for sale as of September 30, 2019 are shown by contractual maturity in the table below. Actual maturities can differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties. 


 4.Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans Receivable 



On July 1, 2019, a commercial mortgage loan in the amount of $1,400,000 defaulted. We do not believe the value of this loan is impaired, as the appraised value of the underlying property exceeds the outstanding balance of the mortgage. We are currently pursuing foreclosure and sale of this property to settle the outstanding debt. 



During the fourth quarter of our fiscal year 2019 we originated commercial loans in an aggregate principal amount of $2,750,000 to an MCA originator. During the first three months of our fiscal year 2020 we loaned an additional $2,750,000 to the same MCA originator with the same terms as the loans issued in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year 2019. These commercial loans have two-year terms and interest is charged at a rate of 17.0% per annum on the outstanding balances. 


CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 




As of September 30, 2019, 92% of merchant cash advances were originated through two MCA funders. 



During the three months ended September 30, 2019, we provided $3,000,000 of cash advances to an aviation business to fund the deposit required for the recipient’s aircraft purchases for up to one month, in exchange for paying us an upfront fee and a guaranty of the full repayment obligation from the principal of the third-party business. These prepaid fees are netted against the principal balance, earned over the one-month advance period, and are reported as part of MCA income within the statement of operations. Each quarter, we review the carrying value of this cash advance, and determine if an impairment reserve is necessary. 

 6.Accounts Payable and Accrued Expenses 




CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 


Defined Benefit Plans 




In fiscal year 2019, we entered into an 18-month, $1,600,000 term loan with a commercial bank to finance part of a land purchase for the purpose of developing and reselling the land. The term loan has an interest rate of 2.75% plus the one-month London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”), 4.78% at September 30, 2019, with interest-only payments due monthly. All principal and any unpaid interest are due in full upon maturity in November 2020. As of September 30, 2019, we have capitalized $25,000 of interest from this loan as part of the land cost. 


The Company and its subsidiaries file income tax returns in the U. S. federal jurisdiction and in various states and foreign jurisdictions. With a few exceptions, we are no longer subject to U. S. federal, state, and local, or non-U. S. income tax examinations by tax authorities for fiscal years before 1999. 






CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

The domestic tax expense for the period ended September 30, 2019 differs from the prior year period due to the significant increase in income from our investment and MCA activities. The expense primarily relates to state taxes on taxable income in states where we do not currently have available net operating losses (“NOLs”). 

NOLs 

As of June 30, 2019, we had U.S. federal NOL carryforwards of approximately $56,789,000 for income tax purposes, of which none expire in our fiscal year 2020, and the remainder expire at various dates through our fiscal year 2037; however, with the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “TCJA”) on December 22, 2017, federal NOLs generated in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 now have no expiration date. We recently completed an evaluation of the potential effect of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (the “IRC”) on our ability to utilize these NOLs. The study concluded that we have not had an ownership change for the period from July 22, 1993 to June 30, 2019; therefore, the NOLs will not be subject to limitation under Section 382. If we experience an ownership change as defined in Section 382 of the IRC, our ability to use these NOLs will be substantially limited, which could therefore significantly impair the value of that asset. 

Of the $56,789,000 of aforementioned U.S. federal NOLs, $11,189,000 represents acquired NOLs from a prior acquisition in fiscal year 2006. Additionally, we had $140,000 of acquired research and development credits from this acquisition. The benefits associated with these acquired losses and tax credits were subject to limitation under Sections 382 and 383 of the IRC as of the date of acquisition. We completed an evaluation of the potential effect of Sections 382 and 383 on our ability to utilize these acquired NOLs and credits. The study concluded that the limitations imposed by Sections 382 and 383 would not limit our ability to utilize these acquired tax attributes prior to their expiration. 

As of June 30, 2019, we had state NOLs of $29,977,000 and foreign NOLs of $8,296,000. The state NOLs expire according to the rules of each state and expiration will occur between fiscal year 2020 and fiscal year 2037. The foreign NOLs expire according to the rules of each country. As of June 30, 2019, the foreign NOLs can be carried forward indefinitely in each country, although some countries do restrict the amount of NOL that can be used in a given tax year. 

Deferred Tax Assets and Related Valuation Allowances 


Unrecognized Tax Benefits 

We have evaluated our unrecognized tax benefits and determined that there has not been a material change in the amount of such benefits for the three months ended September 30, 2019. 


CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 


We have a stock incentive plan providing for the grant of incentive stock options to employees and non-qualified stock options to employees and directors. The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (“Compensation Committee”) administers the Amended and Restated 2011 Stock Incentive Plan. Under the plan, the Compensation Committee may award stock options and shares of common stock on a restricted basis. The plan also specifically provides for stock appreciation rights and authorizes the Compensation Committee to provide, either at the time of the grant of an option or otherwise, that the option may be cashed out upon terms and conditions to be determined by the Compensation Committee or the Board of Directors. 

Option awards are granted with an exercise price equal to the market price of our stock at the date of grant. We recognize stock compensation expense in accordance with ASC 718-10 over the requisite service period of the individual grantees, which generally equals the vesting period. All our stock compensation is accounted for as equity instruments. 

Our Amended and Restated 2011 Stock Incentive Plan (the “Stock Plan”) became effective November 1, 2011 and replaced the 2001 Stock Option Plan that expired on October 31, 2011. At September 30, 2019, there were 787,219 shares available for future grants. 

We recorded $99,000 and $59,000 to general and administrative expense for stock-based compensation related to the issuance of stock options and restricted stock to employees and board members during the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 

As of September 30, 2019, we had 167,500 service-condition restricted stock awards outstanding, of which none had vested, at a weighted-average grant date fair value of $4.15. 

Stock-based compensation expense for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 resulted from vesting of shares over their respective vesting periods. Total remaining compensation cost of restricted stock awards issued but not yet vested as of September 30, 2019 is $369,000, which is expected to be recognized over the weighted average period of 2.3 years. 

Stock Options 

We use a Black-Scholes option valuation model to determine the grant date fair value of stock-based compensation. The Black-Scholes model incorporates various assumptions including the expected term of awards, volatility of stock price, risk-free rates of return, and dividend yield. The expected term of an award is no less than the option vesting period and is based on our expectations under our current operating environment. Expected volatility is based upon the historical volatility of the Company’s stock price. The risk-free interest rate is approximated using rates available on U.S. Treasury securities with a remaining term similar to the option’s expected life. We use a dividend yield of zero in the Black-Scholes option valuation model, as we do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Stock-based compensation is recorded net of expected forfeitures. 

As of September 30, 2019, we had 15,000 stock options outstanding, of which 5,000 options had vested and were exercisable, at a weighted-average exercise price of $5.42, with a weighted-average remaining contractual term of 8.64 years. 

The total intrinsic value of options both outstanding and exercisable was nil for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018. Total remaining compensation cost of stock options granted, but not yet vested, at September 30, 2019 is $8,000, which is expected to be recognized over the weighted average remaining period of 1.4 years. We generally issue new shares to satisfy option exercises. During the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, there were no exercises of stock options. 


CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

 11.Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss 





Our President and Chief Executive Officer is our chief operating decision maker (the “CODM”). Our CODM uses revenue and operating income to evaluate the profitability of our operating segments; all other financial information is reviewed by the CODM on a consolidated basis. Segment operating contribution reflects segment revenue less operating expenses that are directly attributable to the operating segment, not including corporate and unallocated expenses. All of our principal operations and assets are located in the United States. 






CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 




Operating lease cost is reported as part of general and administrative expenses on the consolidated statement of operations. Sublease income is reported as a reduction of general and administrative expenses on the consolidated statement of operations. Operating cash flows from leases are reported as part of net income on the consolidated statement of cash flows. Right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for new operating lease liabilities are reported as part of other long-term assets on the consolidated balance sheet. The short-term portions of the operating lease liabilities are reported as part of accounts payable and accrued expenses on the consolidated balance sheet. The long-term portions of the operating lease liabilities are reported as part of other long-term liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet. 



The total lease liability on the balance sheet as of September 30, 2019 is $499,000. Total unrecognized expected interest expense related to the lease is $49,000. 

 14.Commitments and Contingencies and Related Party Transactions 

Severance Arrangements 

Pursuant to the terms of the employment agreements with our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and other senior employees, employment may be terminated either by the respective employee or by the Company at any time. In the event an agreement is terminated by us without cause, or in certain circumstances terminates constructively or expires, the terminated employee will receive severance compensation for a period from six to 12 months, depending on the employee, and bonus severance. Additionally, if terminated, our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and certain other senior executives will be entitled to Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (“COBRA”) continuation coverage under the Company’s hospitalization and medical plan for the 12-month period following termination. At September 30, 2019, the maximum contingent liability under these agreements was $1,062,000. 

In February 2019, the Company entered into a management agreement (as amended, the “Management Agreement”) with CIDM LLC (“CIDM” or the “Asset Manager”) under which CIDM provides consulting services and advice to the Board of Directors and the Company’s management regarding asset allocation and acquisition strategy. CIDM exclusively manages the Company’s portfolio of publicly-traded investments and subject to the terms of the Management Agreement and the guidelines set forth therein, maintains investment authority over such portfolio, in order to better position the Company to increase its return on assets. CIDM is an affiliate of the Company’s largest stockholder, JDS1, LLC. Under the terms of the Management Agreement, in addition to a quarterly cash payment to compensate CIDM for expenses incurred in connection with providing these services, the Company pays for these services through the issuance of cash-settled stock appreciation rights (“SARs”). Based on the terms of the SARs and the Management Agreement, CIDM may not exercise the SARs unless there are certain qualifying changes of control of the Company (which does not include any change of control related to the stock ownership of CIDM or its affiliates). CIDM and its affiliates will be subject to standard trading restrictions and standstill provisions while the Management Agreement is active. Based upon the Company’s total assets as of September 30, 2019, we expect to issue an additional 87,997 SARs to CIDM during the second quarter of our fiscal year 2020. The contingent liability associated with this cash-settled SAR commitment is dependent on certain change-of-control events and is not limited. 


Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto, which appear elsewhere herein. Except for the historical financial information, many of the matters discussed in this Item 2 may be considered “forward-looking” statements that reflect our plans, estimates and beliefs. Actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section below entitled “Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,” in the section below entitled “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” and in other filings made with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2019. 

References herein to “CCUR Holdings,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” or “our” refer to CCUR Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context specifically indicates otherwise. 

Overview 


The Company began developing its real estate operations during the second half of fiscal year 2018. Since commencing our real estate operations, we have made several commercial loans secured by real property. Based on the success of these activities, including the yield characteristics of these loans, access to a consistent volume of attractive real estate transactions, and management’s experience in the real estate industry, we created Recur, a Delaware limited liability company wholly owned by the Company, during the first quarter of our fiscal year 2019. Recur currently provides commercial loans to local, regional, and national builders, developers, and commercial landowners and is also acquiring, owning, and managing a portfolio of real property for development. Recur does not provide consumer mortgages. 

In February 2019, through our newly formed subsidiary, LMCS, we acquired the operating assets of LuxeMark Capital, LLC (the “LuxeMark Acquisition”). Pursuant to the terms of the purchase agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby, the Company holds an 80% interest in LMCS, with the remaining 20% held by LuxeMark Capital, LLC (“Old LuxeMark”). Through LMCS, doing business as “LuxeMark Capital,” we manage a connected network of MCA originators and syndicate participants who provide those originators with capital by purchasing participation interests or co-funding MCA transactions. In addition, we provide loans to MCA originators, the proceeds of which are used by the MCA originators to fund MCAs themselves. LMCS’ daily operations are led by the three principals of Old LuxeMark. CCUR provides accounting and legal support to LMCS. 



Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

The SEC defines “critical accounting estimates” as those that require application of management’s most difficult, subjective, or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain and may change in subsequent periods. Our critical accounting policies and estimates are disclosed under the section “Application of Critical Accounting Policies” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019. 

Results of Operations 

We recognize revenue in accordance with the appropriate accounting guidance as described in our critical accounting policies. See the section titled “Application of Critical Accounting Policies” in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2019. MCA revenue includes income from the discount at which we provide advances on future merchant receivables, as well as fees earned for sourcing both syndication capital and merchant leads for MCA funders. We generate revenue from interest on loans by entering into commercial loan agreements to fund third party funders in the MCA industry and real estate industry. 

Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of commissions, travel, employee salaries, benefits, and consulting fees. 

General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries, benefits, overhead, management travel, administrative personnel, rent, information systems, insurance, accounting, legal services, board of director fees and expenses, and other professional services. 

Other interest income is earned on cash overnight sweep accounts and money market deposits, as well as investments in debt securities. Interest income also includes accretion of discounts for which we purchased debt securities whereby such discount is amortized over the term of the debt security to its commitment value that will be due on the maturity date, as well as early repayment. Additionally, we earn payment-in-kind (“ PIK”) interest from one of our debt securities whereby interest is paid in the form of an increase in the commitment value due from the debt security issuer on the maturity date. 

Three Months Ended September 30, 2019 in Comparison to the Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 

Consolidated Results. During the three months ended September 30, 2019, we generated $1.7 million of total revenue, compared to $0.1 million in the quarter ended September 30, 2018, driven largely by the growth in our participation in the MCA industry. Our net income for the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 increased to $3.5 million, compared to a loss of $3.0 thousand in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. This increase was attributable largely to an increase in our income before income tax driven by our MCA operations and our investments in certain debt and equity securities. 

MCA Operations Segment Results. In December 2018, we began participating in the MCA industry by indirectly advancing funds to merchants through third-party originators. We generated $1.7 million of revenue from MCA operations during the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to $0 in the during the three months ended September 30, 2018. Of that revenue, $0.8 million of revenue came from MCAs and $0.6 million of revenue was generated from syndication fee revenue from sourcing syndication capital and merchant leads for the MCA industry. 

Real Estate Operations Revenues. We generated $0.1 million of revenue from real estate operations during the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to $0.1 million during the three months ended September 30, 2018. 




Sales and Marketing Expenses. During the third quarter of our fiscal year 2019, we began incurring sales and marketing expenses attributable to new business development resources that are focused on augmenting our current businesses and identifying potential new businesses. We incurred $0.1 million of these business development costs during the three months ended September 30, 2019, which are reported as part of our corporate operating expenses. Additionally, the principals of Old LuxeMark, who now lead the LMCS daily operations following closing of the LuxeMark Acquisition, are predominantly focused on generating incremental syndication fees and other MCA income for our MCA operations segment. As a result, our MCA operations segment incurred $0.2 million of sales and marketing expenses during the three months ended September 30, 2019. 

General and Administrative Expenses. General and administrative expenses were $1.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019, a $0.2 million, or 23%, increase from the three months ended September 30, 2018. Salaries attributable to our MCA operations accounted for $0.1 million of the increase, as we did not have MCA operations in the prior year period. The remaining $0.1 million increase was due to corporate salaries from additional headcount and financial performance bonuses accrued during the three months ended September 30, 2019. 

Change in Fair Value of Contingent Consideration.  During the three months ended September 30, 2019, we recorded $10 thousand of incremental expenses related to our estimated contingent consideration payments to Old LuxeMark. The increase in estimated contingent consideration payments associated with the LuxeMark Acquisition resulted from updated estimates regarding the financial performance of LMCS. The new estimates are expected to impact our projected income for our MCA business favorably, and consequently increased our estimate of contingent consideration payable. 


Provision for Credit Losses on Advances. During the three months ended September 30, 2019, $0.2 million was provided for losses, based on the dollar amount of new MCAs that we entered into and mix of funders who we funded through. We did not record a provision for credit losses during the three months ended September 30, 2018 because we did not fund any MCAs during that period. 




Other interest income for the three months ended September 30, 2019 increased by $1.3 million, or 142.8%, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018, due to higher yields on incremental investments in debt securities since September 30, 2019 and accretion of any discounts on these securities. 

Dividend Income. Dividend income decreased by $43 thousand during the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to the same period of the prior year, due to our sale of some of our dividend yielding equity securities since September 30, 2018. 

Realized Gain on Investments, net. During the three months ended September 30, 2019, we sold investments in certain equity securities for which we recognized $1.1 million of net realized gains, as compared to $0.2 million of realized gains on the sale of certain equity and debt securities during the same period in the prior year. 

Unrealized Gain (Loss) on Equity Securities, Net. During the three months ended September 30, 2019, we reported unrealized gain on equity securities, net, of $0.5 million, compared to a loss of $0.5 million during the three months ended September 30, 2018. Our unrealized gains (losses) on equity securities each period are a function of changes in the fair value of the equity securities that we hold as of the current reporting period balance sheet date relative to the preceding balance sheet date. 

Income Tax Provision (Benefit). We reported $0.2 million of income tax expense for the three months ended September 30, 2019, primarily due to income earned in states where we do not have NOLs available to offset taxable income. Our available federal NOLs offset any taxable income for our fiscal year 2019, resulting in no net federal income tax expense for the current fiscal year. 

Liquidity and Capital Resources 



Uses and Sources of Cash 

Cash Flows from Operating Activities 

We generated $0.5 million and used $0.1 million of cash for operating activities during the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Operating cash generated during the three months ended September 30, 2019 was primarily attributable to positive net income, adjusted for non-cash items, partially offset by timing of collection of interest income. Operating cash usage during the three months ended September 30, 2018 was primarily attributable to operating costs during the period exceeding cash generating income, as approximately $0.5 million of our income for the period was from non-cash accretion and PIK interest. 


Cash Flows from Investing Activities 

During the three months ended September 30, 2019 we generated $0.1 million of cash, net, from investing activities. Our net cash inflows were primarily driven by collecting more merchant payments than we redeployed to fund advances to merchants, resulting in $1.6 million of net cash inflows from MCAs during the period. Additionally, we generated net cash from debt and equity securities as we liquidated $0.8 million more in debt and equity securities than we invested during the three months ended September 30, 2019. Partially offsetting the net cash inflows from MCAs, debt and equity securities, we funded $2.0 million more in mortgage and commercial loans than we collected during the period, primarily attributable to new loans that we made to funders in the MCA industry. Remaining investing cash outflows during the three months ended September 30, 2019 resulted from our purchase of land parcels for development and resale. 

During the three months ended September 30, 2018, we originated $1.8 million of short-term mortgage loans through Recur, of which $1.4 million was on deposit with an escrow agent at the end of the prior fiscal year. Additionally, we provided a $2.0 million cash advance to an aviation business to fund the deposit required for the recipient’s aircraft purchases for up to six months, in exchange for paying us an upfront fee. Our remaining investing activities consisted of $1.6 million in purchases and $6.2 million in maturities or sales of debt and equity securities for the purpose of funding our operating expenses as we continued to evolve our real estate operating business and actively search for additional operating businesses to acquire. 

Cash Flows from Financing Activities 


Liquidity 

We had working capital (current assets less current liabilities) of $49.4 million at September 30, 2019, compared to working capital of $48.8 million at June 30, 2019. At September 30, 2019, we had no material commitments for capital expenditures. 

As of September 30, 2019, less than 0.1% of our cash was in foreign accounts, and there is no expectation that any foreign cash would need to be transferred from these foreign accounts to cover U.S. operations in the next 12 months. Based upon our existing cash balances, equity securities, and available-for-sale investments, historical cash usage, and anticipated operating cash flow in the current fiscal year, we believe that existing U.S. cash balances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated working capital requirements for at least the next 12 months from the issuance date of this report. 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 

We had no material off-balance sheet arrangements as of September 30, 2019. 

Recent Accounting Guidance 

See “Note 2. Recent Accounting Guidance,” to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a full description of recent accounting standards, including the respective expected dates of adoption and the expected effects on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. 


Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 

Certain statements made or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the federal securities laws. When used or incorporated by reference in this report, the words “believes,” “expects,” “estimates,” “anticipates,” and similar expressions, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Statements regarding future events and developments, our future performance, payment of dividends, ability to utilize our net deferred tax assets and availability of earnings and profits with respect to dividend income, as well as our expectations, beliefs, plans, estimates or projections relating to the future and current assessments of business opportunities, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of these laws. Examples of our forward-looking statements in this report include, but are not limited to, the ability of the Board of Directors and Asset Management Committee to identify suitable business opportunities and acquisition targets and the Company’s ability to consummate transactions with such acquisition targets; our ability to successfully develop our real estate and merchant cash advance operations, the impact of any strategic initiatives we may undertake; the impact of the current reestablishment of and potential for future release of our tax valuation allowances on future income tax provisions and income taxes paid; expected level of capital additions; our expected cash position; the impact of interest rate changes and fluctuation in currency exchange rates; our sufficiency of cash; and the impact of litigation and the payment of any declared dividends. These statements are based on beliefs and assumptions of our management, which are based on currently available information. All forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events to differ materially from those projected. The risks and uncertainties which could affect our financial condition or results of operations include, without limitation: the process of evaluating strategic alternatives; the Company’s ability to compete with experienced investors in the acquisition of one or more additional businesses, our ability to utilize our net operating losses to offset cash taxes, in general, and in the event of an ownership change as defined by the Internal Revenue Service; changes in and related uncertainties caused by changes in applicable tax laws, the current macroeconomic environment generally and with respect to acquisitions and the financing thereof; continuing unevenness of the global economic recovery; the availability of debt or equity financing to support any liquidity needs; global terrorism; and earthquakes, tsunamis, floods and other natural disasters. 

Our forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and speak only as of the date of such statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of future events, new information or otherwise, except as may be required by federal securities law. 

Other important risk factors that could cause actual results to differ from any forward-looking statements made in this report are discussed in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019 and in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in this report or elsewhere herein. 

 Item 3.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

Pursuant to Item 305(e) of Regulation S-K (Section 229.305(e)), the Company is not required to provide the information required by this Item as it is a “smaller reporting company” as defined by Rule 229.10(f)(1). 

 Item 4.Controls and Procedures 

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures 

As of September 30, 2019, our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness and design of our disclosure controls and procedures (as that term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Exchange Act). Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of September 30, 2019. 

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 

There have been no changes in our internal controls over financial reporting (as defined by Rule 13a-15(f) of the Exchange Act) during the three months ended September 30, 2019 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal controls over financial reporting. 


Part II - Other Information 

 Item 1.Legal Proceedings 

We are, from time to time, party to various routine legal proceedings arising out of our business. While the resolution of any such matter cannot be predicted with certainty, we are not presently involved in any litigation, nor is any legal proceeding currently threatened against us, that we believe, individually or in the aggregate, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. 

 Item 1A.Risk Factors 

There have been no material changes in our risk factors from those included in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019. 

 Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds 

None. 

 Item 6.Exhibits – 







SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 


