
UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION





For the quarterly period ended September 30, 2019 

or


For the transition period from to 

Commission File Number 001-35985 

CDW CORPORATION





None








As of October 28, 2019, there were 143,680,653 shares of common stock, $0.01 par value, outstanding.
CDW CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

PART I—FINANCIAL INFORMATION

Item 1. Financial Statements


The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements.


The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements.


The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements.







The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements.


The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements.



Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Description of Business


Throughout this report, the terms the "Company" and "CDW" refer to Parent and its 100% owned subsidiaries.

Parent has two 100% owned subsidiaries, CDW LLC and CDW Finance Corporation. CDW LLC is an Illinois limited liability company that, together with its 100% owned subsidiaries, holds all material assets and conducts all business activities and operations of the Company. CDW Finance Corporation is a Delaware corporation formed for the sole purpose of acting as co-issuer of certain debt obligations as described in Note 13 (Supplemental Guarantor Information) and does not hold any material assets or engage in any business activities or operations.

Basis of Presentation

The accompanying unaudited interim Consolidated Financial Statements as of September 30, 2019 and for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 (the "Consolidated Financial Statements") have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and the rules and regulations of the US Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") for interim financial statements. Accordingly, certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been condensed or omitted pursuant to the rules and regulations of the SEC. These Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 (the "December 31, 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements"). The significant accounting policies used in preparing these Consolidated Financial Statements were applied on a basis consistent with those reflected in the December 31, 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements. In the opinion of management, the Consolidated Financial Statements contain all adjustments (consisting of a normal, recurring nature) necessary to present fairly the Company's financial position, results of operations, comprehensive income, cash flows and changes in stockholders' equity as of the dates and for the periods indicated. The unaudited results of operations for such interim periods reported are not necessarily indicative of results for the full year.

Principles of Consolidation

The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Parent and its 100% owned subsidiaries. All intercompany transactions and accounts are eliminated in consolidation.

Use of Estimates

The preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with GAAP requires management to make use of certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the Consolidated Financial Statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reported periods. The Company bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that management believes are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

The notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in the December 31, 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements include a discussion of the significant accounting policies and estimates used in the preparation of the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements. Except as noted below for the adoption of Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2016-02, Leases ("Topic 842"), there have been no material changes to the Company's significant accounting policies and estimates during the nine months ended September 30, 2019.


Leases

The Company enters into operating lease contracts, as assessed at contract inception, primarily for real estate, data centers and equipment. On the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets, Operating lease assets are included in Operating lease right-of-use assets and Operating lease liabilities are included in Other current liabilities and Long-term operating lease liabilities. At the lease commencement date, the Company records Operating lease liabilities based on the present value of the future lease payments. In determining the present value of future lease payments, the Company uses its incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at the commencement date. For real estate and data center contracts, the Company accounts for the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component. For certain equipment leases, the Company applies a portfolio approach to account for the right-of-use asset and operating lease liability. In assessing the lease term, the Company includes options to renew only when it is reasonably certain that it will be exercised; a determination which is at the sole discretion of the Company. Generally, for leases with an initial term of 12 months or less, the Company has elected to not record a right-of-use asset and lease liability. For equipment leases used in revenue generating activities, the Company will record a right-of-use asset and lease liability for leases with a term of 12 months or less. The Company records lease expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term beginning on the commencement date.


Recent Accounting Pronouncements 

Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments

In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments. The ASU introduces a new forward-looking approach, based on expected losses, to estimate credit losses on certain types of financial instruments, including trade receivables. The estimate of expected credit losses will require considerations of historical information, current information and reasonable and supportable forecasts. The ASU also expands the disclosure requirements to enable users of financial statements to understand the assumptions, models and methods for estimating expected credit losses. The ASU will be adopted on January 1, 2020. The Company has established a cross-functional implementation team to analyze the effect of the ASU. The analysis includes identifying pools of receivables, evaluating and assessing estimation methodologies, assessing policy elections, and evaluating its business processes and internal controls to meet the ASU’s accounting, reporting and disclosure requirements. The Company is currently evaluating the impact the ASU will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.

Accounting for Leases

On January 1, 2019, the Company adopted and applied Topic 842 resulting in the recognition of right-of-use assets and additional lease liabilities of $81 million as of January 1, 2019, mainly related to operating leases for the Company's real estate portfolio. For additional details regarding the impact to the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets from adopting this standard, see Note 9 (Leases).


Acquisition

On February 1, 2019, the Company completed the acquisition of all issued and outstanding shares of Scalar Decisions Inc. ("Scalar"), a leading technology solutions provider in Canada, for a total final purchase price of $88 million of which $13 million is deferred to satisfy potential indemnity obligations and is expected to be paid in the first quarter of 2021. The financial results of Scalar have been included in the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements since the date of the acquisition. The financial results are included in the CDW Canada operating segment which is shown in an all other category ("Other") along with CDW UK. The purchase price allocation is preliminary and subject to revision as additional information about fair value of assets and liabilities becomes available.





Inventory Financing Agreements

The Company has entered into agreements with certain financial intermediaries to facilitate the purchase of inventory from various suppliers under certain terms and conditions, as described below. These amounts are classified separately as Accounts payable-inventory financing on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Company does not incur any interest expense associated with these agreements as balances are paid when they are due.




The Senior Secured Asset-Based Revolving Credit Facility includes an inventory floorplan sub-facility that enables the Company to maintain an inventory financing agreement with a financial intermediary to facilitate the purchase of inventory from certain vendors on more favorable terms than offered directly by the vendors.


Contract Liabilities and Performance Obligations

The Company's contract liabilities consist of payments received from customers, or such consideration that is contractually due, in advance of providing the product or performing services. The Company's contract liabilities are reported in a net position on a contract-by-contract basis at the end of each reporting period. As of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the contract liability balance was $212 million and $178 million, respectively. During the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, the Company recognized revenue of $117 million and $153 million, respectively, related to its contract liabilities.

A contract's transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation and recognized as revenue when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied. The following table represents the total transaction price for the remaining performance obligations as of September 30, 2019 related to noncancelable contracts longer than 12 months in duration that is expected to be recognized over future periods.



Financial Instruments

The Company's indebtedness creates interest rate risk on its variable-rate debt. The Company uses derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate risk. The Company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.


The Company has interest rate cap agreements that entitle it to payments from the counterparty of the amount, if any, by which three-month London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") exceeds the strike rates of the caps during the agreement period in exchange for an upfront premium. During 2019, the Company entered into interest rate cap agreements with a combined notional value of $1.2 billion resulting in premiums paid to the counterparties of $6 million.



The fair values of the Company's interest rate cap agreements are classified as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. The valuation of the interest rate cap agreements is derived by using a discounted cash flow analysis on the expected cash receipts that would occur if variable interest rates rise above the strike rates of the caps. This analysis reflects the contractual terms of the interest rate cap agreements, including the period to maturity, and uses observable market-based inputs, including LIBOR curves and implied volatilities. The Company also incorporates insignificant credit valuation adjustments to appropriately reflect the respective counterparty's nonperformance risk in the fair value measurements. The counterparty credit spreads are based on publicly available credit information obtained from a third-party credit data provider. For additional details, see Note 7 (Long-Term Debt).

The interest rate cap agreements are designated as cash flow hedges. The changes in the fair value of derivatives that qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss and are subsequently reclassified into Interest expense in the period when the hedged forecasted transaction affects earnings. The Company recorded an insignificant loss and a loss of $13 million, net of tax, into Accumulated other comprehensive loss for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively. The Company recorded a loss of $1 million and a gain of $3 million, net of tax, into Accumulated other comprehensive loss for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, the Company reclassified an insignificant amount and $2 million, respectively, from Accumulated other comprehensive loss to earnings within Interest expense, net on the Consolidated Statement of Operations. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Company reclassified $1 million and $3 million, respectively, from Accumulated other comprehensive loss to earnings within Interest expense, net on the Consolidated Statement of Operations. The Company expects to reclassify $7 million from Accumulated other comprehensive loss to earnings within Interest expense, net during the next 12 months.



Long-Term Debt




See Note 14 (Subsequent Events).

As of September 30, 2019, the Company is in compliance with the covenants under the various credit agreements and indentures.

Credit Facilities

The Company has a variable rate CDW UK revolving credit facility that is denominated in British pounds. As of September 30, 2019, the Company could have borrowed up to an additional £50 million ($61 million at September 30, 2019) under the CDW UK revolving credit facility.

The Company also has a variable rate senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility (the "Revolving Loan") that is denominated in US dollars. The Revolving Loan is used by the Company for borrowings, issuances of letters of credit and floorplan financing. As of September 30, 2019, the Revolving Loan had less than $1 million of undrawn letters of credit, $356 million reserved for the floorplan sub-facility and a borrowing base of $2.2 billion, which is based on the amount of eligible inventory and accounts receivable balances as of August 31, 2019. As of September 30, 2019, the Company could have borrowed up to an additional $1.1 billion under the Revolving Loan.

The Revolving Loan is collateralized by a first priority interest in inventory (excluding inventory to the extent collateralized under the inventory financing arrangements as described in Note 4 (Inventory Financing Agreements)), deposits and accounts receivable, and by a second priority interest in substantially all other US assets.


Term Loans

The CDW UK term loan has a variable interest rate. The Company is required to make annual principal installments of £5 million ($6 million at September 30, 2019), with the remaining principal amount due at the maturity date.

The CDW UK term loan agreement imposes restrictions on CDW UK's ability to transfer funds to the Company through the payment of dividends, repayment of intercompany loans, advances or subordinated debt that require, among other things, the maintenance of a minimum net leverage ratio. As of September 30, 2019, the amount of restricted payment capacity under the CDW UK term loan was £134 million ($165 million at September 30, 2019).

The senior secured term loan facility (the "Term Loan") has a variable interest rate, which has effectively been capped through the use of interest rate caps (see Note 6 (Financial Instruments)). The interest rate disclosed in the table above represents the variable interest rates in effect for September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively. The Company is required to pay quarterly principal installments of $4 million with the remaining principal amount due at the maturity date. As of September 30, 2019, the amount of CDW's restricted payment capacity under the Term Loan was $1.7 billion.

The Term Loan is collateralized by a second priority interest in substantially all inventory (excluding inventory to the extent collateralized under the inventory financing arrangements as described in Note 4 (Inventory Financing Agreements), deposits and accounts receivable, and by a first priority interest in substantially all other US assets.

Unsecured Senior Notes

The 2024 Senior Notes and 2025 Senior Notes have a fixed interest rate, for which interest is paid semi-annually.

On September 26, 2019, the Company completed the issuance of $600 million aggregate principal amount of 4.25% Senior Notes due 2028 at par. The 2028 Senior Notes will mature on April 1, 2028 and bear interest at a rate of 4.25% per annum, payable semi-annually on April 1 and October 1 of each year, commencing on April 1, 2020. The net proceeds from the issuance of the 2028 Senior Notes were primarily used to redeem all of the remaining $525 million aggregate principal amount of the 2023 Senior Notes at a redemption price of 102.5% of the principal amount redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption, and to pay fees and expenses related to the issuance and redemption. The redemption date was October 12, 2019. On the same date, the indenture governing the 2023 Senior Notes was satisfied and discharged. 

Fair Value

The fair values of the Senior Notes were estimated using quoted market prices for identical liabilities that are traded in over-the-counter secondary markets that are not considered active. The fair value of the Term Loan was estimated using dealer quotes for identical liabilities in markets that are not considered active. The Senior Notes, Term Loan and CDW UK term loan are classified as Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. The carrying value of the Revolving Loan and CDW UK revolving credit facility approximate fair value if there are outstanding borrowings. 




Income Taxes

Income tax expense was $59 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to $55 million for the same period of the prior year. The effective tax rate, expressed by calculating the income tax expense as a percentage of Income before income taxes, was 22.7% and 22.9% for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and differed from the US federal statutory rate of 21.0% primarily due to state income taxes partially offset by excess tax benefits on equity-based compensation. 

Income tax expense was $163 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, compared to $150 million for the same period of the prior year. The effective tax rate was 22.8% and 23.7% for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 


and 2018, respectively, and differed from the US federal statutory rate of 21.0% primarily due to state income taxes partially offset by excess tax benefits on equity-based compensation. 


Leases

The Company has operating leases primarily for real estate, data centers and equipment. Lease terms range from 1 year to 17 years.










As of September 30, 2019, the Company has an additional operating lease commitment that has not yet commenced of $99 million. This operating lease is expected to commence in 2019 with a lease term of 17 years.


Earnings Per Share

The numerator for both basic and diluted earnings per share is Net income. The denominator for basic earnings per share is the weighted-average shares outstanding during the period.






Commitments and Contingencies

The Company is party to various legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of its business, which include commercial, intellectual property, employment, tort and other litigation matters. The Company is also subject to audit by federal, state, international, national, provincial and local authorities, and by various partners, group purchasing organizations and customers, including government agencies, relating to purchases and sales under various contracts. In addition, the Company is subject to indemnification claims under various contracts. From time to time, certain customers of the Company file voluntary petitions for reorganization or liquidation under the US bankruptcy laws or similar laws of the jurisdictions for the Company's business activities outside of the US. In such cases, certain pre-petition payments received by the Company could be considered preference items and subject to return to the bankruptcy administrator.

As of September 30, 2019, the Company does not believe that there is a reasonable possibility that any material loss exceeding the amounts already recognized for these proceedings and matters, if any, has been incurred. However, the ultimate resolutions of these proceedings and matters are inherently unpredictable. As such, the Company's financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected in any particular period by the unfavorable resolution of one or more of these proceedings or matters.



Segment Information 


During the first quarter of 2019, the Company evaluated its methodology for allocating certain depreciation and amortization expenses to each of its segments. The evaluation resulted in a revision to the allocation of depreciation and amortization expenses from Headquarters to the Company’s reportable segments, effective January 1, 2019. The prior period results have been recast to reflect these changes and present comparable information.





Geographic Areas and Revenue Mix

















The following table presents Net sales by major category for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018. Categories are based upon internal classifications.





Includes items such as delivery charges to customers.



Supplemental Guarantor Information

The Senior Notes are guaranteed by Parent and each of CDW LLC's direct and indirect, 100% owned, domestic subsidiaries (the "Guarantor Subsidiaries"). All guarantees by Parent and the Guarantor Subsidiaries are and were joint and several, and full and unconditional; provided that guarantees by the Guarantor Subsidiaries are subject to certain customary release provisions contained in the indentures governing the Senior Notes. CDW LLC's 100% owned foreign subsidiaries, CDW International Holdings Limited, which is comprised of CDW UK and CDW Canada (together the "Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries"), do not guarantee the Senior Notes. CDW LLC and CDW Finance Corporation, as co-issuers, are 100% owned by Parent and each of the Guarantor Subsidiaries and the Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries are, directly or indirectly, 100% owned by CDW LLC.

The following tables set forth Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheets as of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, Consolidating Statements of Operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, Condensed Consolidating Statements of Comprehensive Income for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, and Condensed Consolidating Statements of Cash Flows for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, in accordance with Rule 3-10 of Regulation S-X. The consolidating financial information includes the accounts of CDW Corporation (the "Parent Guarantor"), which has no independent assets or operations, the accounts of CDW LLC (the "Subsidiary Issuer"), the combined accounts of the Guarantor Subsidiaries, the combined accounts of the Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries, and the accounts of CDW Finance Corporation (the "Co-Issuer") for the periods indicated. The information is prepared on the same basis as the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements.
























Subsequent Events

On October 11, 2019, CDW extended the maturity date of the existing Term Loan to October 2026.

Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires, as used in this "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," the terms "we," "us," "the Company," "our," "CDW" and similar terms refer to CDW Corporation and its subsidiaries. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" should be read in conjunction with the unaudited interim Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this report and with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. See "Forward-Looking Statements" at the end of this discussion.

Overview


We are technology "agnostic," with a broad portfolio including more than 100,000 products and services from more than 1,000 leading and emerging brands. Our solutions are delivered in physical, virtual and cloud-based environments through over 6,000 customer-facing coworkers, including sellers, highly-skilled technology specialists and advanced service delivery engineers. We are a leading sales channel partner for many original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"), software publishers and cloud providers (collectively, our "vendor partners"), whose products we sell or include in the solutions we offer. We provide our vendor partners with a cost-effective way to reach customers and deliver a consistent brand experience through our established end-market coverage, technical expertise and extensive customer access.



Trends and Key Factors Affecting our Financial Performance


•General economic conditions are a key factor affecting our results as they impact our customers' willingness to spend on information technology. This is particularly the case for our Corporate and Small Business customers, as their purchases tend to reflect confidence in their business prospects, which are driven by their discrete perceptions of business and general economic conditions. Additionally, changes in trade policy and product constraints from suppliers could have an adverse impact on our business. There continues to be substantial uncertainty regarding the impact of the UK's planned withdrawal from the European Union ("EU") (referred to as "Brexit"). Potential adverse consequences of Brexit such as global market uncertainty, volatility in currency exchange rates, greater restrictions on imports and exports between UK and EU countries and increased regulatory complexities could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. To date, CDW UK has not experienced significant changes in the buying behavior of its customers even with the uncertainty related to the timing and terms of Brexit. We have established a presence on the continent to support CDW UK's broader growth opportunities in the EU. This also serves as a contingency plan to address future developments as needed around Brexit.

•Changes in spending policies, budget priorities and funding levels are a key factor influencing the purchasing levels of government, healthcare and education customers.

•Technology trends drive customer purchasing behaviors in the market. Current technology trends are focused on delivering greater flexibility and efficiency, as well as designing IT securely. These trends are driving customer adoption of solutions such as those delivered via cloud, software defined architectures and hybrid on-premise and off-premise combinations, as well as the evolution of the IT consumption model to more "as a service" offerings, including Device as a Service ("DaaS") and managed services.

Key Business Metrics

We monitor a number of financial and non-financial measures and ratios on a regular basis in order to track the progress of our business and make adjustments as necessary. Effective January 1, 2019, we made a change to the Non-GAAP financial measures that we use to provide meaningful methods of evaluating our financial performance and have replaced EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin with Non-GAAP operating income and Non-GAAP operating income margin. We made this change due to the continuing evolution of the IT consumption model. We believe Non-GAAP operating income will be more reflective of the costs of providing services to our customers and our own costs as the consumption model continues to evolve. Non-GAAP operating income is also being used for the first time in 2019 as a key business metric for our annual incentive compensation programs.

In addition to Non-GAAP operating income and Non-GAAP operating income margin, we believe that the most important financial and non-financial measures and ratios include average daily sales, gross margin, operating margin, Net income, Non-GAAP income before income taxes, Non-GAAP net income, Net income per diluted share, Non-GAAP net income per diluted share, free cash flow, return on working capital, Cash and cash equivalents, net working capital, cash conversion cycle (defined to be days of sales outstanding in Accounts receivable and certain receivables due from vendors plus days of supply in Merchandise inventory minus days of purchases outstanding in Accounts payable and Accounts payable-inventory financing, based on a rolling three-month average), debt levels including available credit, sales per coworker and coworker turnover. These measures and ratios are compared to standards or objectives set by management, so that actions can be taken, as necessary, in order to achieve the standards and objectives.

In this report, we discuss Non-GAAP operating income, Non-GAAP operating income margin, Non-GAAP income before income taxes and Non-GAAP net income, which are non-GAAP financial measures.

We believe these measures provide analysts, investors and management with helpful information regarding the underlying operating performance of our business, as they remove the impact of items that management believes are not reflective of underlying operating performance. Management uses these measures to evaluate period-over-period performance as management believes they provide a more comparable measure of the underlying business. For the definitions of Non-GAAP operating income, Non-GAAP income before income taxes and Non-GAAP net income and reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP measure, see "Results of Operations - Non-GAAP Financial Measure Reconciliations."

Third Quarter Overview





Results of Operations

Three Months Ended September 30, 2019 Compared to Three Months Ended September 30, 2018



Net sales




Total Net sales for the three months ended September 30, 2019 increased $535 million, or 12.2%, to $4,908 million, compared to $4,373 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018. There was one more selling day in the three months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the same period of 2018, and Net sales on an average daily sales basis increased 10.5%. Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, constant currency Net sales growth on an average daily sales basis was 10.9%. See "Non-GAAP Financial Measure Reconciliations" below for additional information regarding constant currency Net sales growth.


Corporate segment Net sales for the three months ended September 30, 2019 increased $207 million, or 12.1%, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018. On an average daily sales basis, Corporate segment Net sales increased 10.4%. Growth was primarily driven by client devices and software.

Small Business segment Net sales for the three months ended September 30, 2019 increased $46 million, or 13.6%, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018. On an average daily sales basis, Small Business segment Net sales increased 11.8%. Growth was primarily driven by client devices.

Public segment Net sales for the three months ended September 30, 2019 increased $226 million, or 12.0%, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018. On an average daily sales basis, Public segment Net sales increased 10.3%. Net sales to Government and Healthcare customers increased 22.2% and 11.3% on an average daily sales basis, respectively, primarily driven by client devices. Net sales to Education customers were flat.

Net sales in Other, which is comprised of results from our UK and Canadian operations, for the three months ended September 30, 2019 increased $56 million, or 10.6% on an average daily sales basis, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018. Both operations grew in local currency led by Canada growth which included the incremental Net sales from Scalar Decisions Inc. ("Scalar"). This increase was partially offset by the impact of foreign currency exchange of approximately 470 basis points, due to the unfavorable impact resulting from the British pound and Canadian dollar to US dollar translations.

Gross profit

Gross profit increased $103 million, or 14.4%, to $816 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018. As a percentage of Net sales, Gross profit margin increased 30 basis points to 16.6% for the three months ended September 30, 2019. Gross profit margin was positively impacted by an increase in the mix of netted down revenues, such as Software as a Service and warranties.

Selling and administrative expenses

Selling and administrative expenses increased $54 million, or 13.9%, to $445 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to $391 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018. The increase was driven by higher payroll expenses due to higher sales payroll expenses, including sales commissions, which are primarily driven by higher gross profit, the inclusion of Scalar expenses, and performance-based compensation consistent with higher attainment against goals. Total coworker count was 9,843, up 906 from 8,937 at September 30, 2018, including the incremental coworker count from Scalar. 

As a percentage of Net sales, selling and administrative expenses increased 20 basis points to 9.1% during the three months ended September 30, 2019, from 8.9% in the three months ended September 30, 2018.

Operating income

During the first quarter of 2019, we evaluated our methodology for allocating certain depreciation and amortization expenses to each of our segments. The evaluation resulted in a revision to the allocation of depreciation and amortization expenses from Headquarters to our reportable segments, effective January 1, 2019. The prior period results have been recast to reflect these changes and present comparable information.







Operating income was $321 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019, an increase of $46 million, or 16.7%, compared to $275 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018. Operating income increased primarily due to higher gross profit dollars partially offset by higher payroll expenses. Total operating margin percentage increased 20 basis points to 6.5% for the three months ended September 30, 2019, from 6.3% for the three months ended September 30, 2018.

Corporate segment Operating income was $139 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019, an increase of $13 million, or 10.5%, compared to $126 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018. Corporate segment Operating income increased primarily due to higher gross profit dollars partially offset by higher payroll expenses. Corporate segment operating margin percentage decreased 10 basis points to 7.3% for the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to 7.4% for the three months ended September 30, 2018.

Small Business segment Operating income was $27 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019, an increase of $3 million, or 14.3%, compared to $24 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018. Small Business segment Operating income increased primarily due to higher gross profit dollars partially offset by higher payroll expenses. Small Business segment operating margin percentage remained flat at 7.0% for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018.

Public segment Operating income was $168 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019, an increase of $32 million, or 23.3%, compared to $137 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018. Public segment Operating income increased primarily due to higher gross profit dollars partially offset by higher sales payroll expenses. Public segment operating margin percentage increased 70 basis points to 8.0% for the three months ended September 30, 2019 from 7.3% for the three months ended September 30, 2018. This increase in operating margin percentage was primarily driven by an increase in product margin improvement partially offset by higher payroll expenses.

Other Operating income was $22 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019, an increase of $3 million, or 14.1%, compared to $19 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018. Other Operating income increased primarily due to higher gross profit dollars offset by higher payroll expenses, which was due to the inclusion of Scalar expenses, and the unfavorable translation of the British pound and Canadian dollar to US dollar. Other operating margin percentage remained flat at 4.3% for the three months ended September 30, 2019.

Interest expense, net

At September 30, 2019, our outstanding debt totaled $3,304 million compared to $3,238 million at September 30, 2018. Interest expense, net for the three months ended September 30, 2019 was $42 million, an increase of $5 million compared to $37 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018. This increase was primarily due to paying an effective interest rate on the term loan in 2019 that exceeded the capped rate in 2018.

Other (expense) income, net 

During the three months ended September 30, 2019, there was a $16 million net loss on extinguishment of long-term debt. For additional details, see Note 7 (Long-Term Debt) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.

Income tax expense

Income tax expense was $59 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to $55 million for the same period of the prior year. The effective tax rate, expressed by calculating the income tax expense as a percentage of Income before income taxes, was 22.7% and 22.9% for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and differed from the US federal statutory rate of 21.0% primarily due to state income taxes partially offset by excess tax benefits on equity-based compensation. 

The lower effective tax rate for the three months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the same period of the prior year was primarily attributable to higher excess tax benefits on equity-based compensation.

Non-GAAP Financial Measure Reconciliations

We have included reconciliations of Non-GAAP operating income, Non-GAAP income before income taxes, Non-GAAP net income and Net sales growth on a constant currency basis for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 below.

Non-GAAP operating income excludes, among other things, charges related to the amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, equity-based compensation and the associated payroll taxes, and acquisition and integration expenses. Non-GAAP operating income margin is defined as Non-GAAP operating income as a percentage of Net sales. Non-GAAP income before income taxes, and Non-GAAP net income exclude, among other things, charges related to acquisition-related intangible asset amortization, equity-based compensation, net loss on extinguishment of long-term debt, acquisition and integration expenses, and the associated tax effects of each. Net sales growth on a constant currency basis is defined as Net sales growth excluding the impact of foreign currency translation on Net sales compared to the prior period.

Non-GAAP operating income, Non-GAAP operating income margin, Non-GAAP income before income taxes, Non-GAAP net income and Net sales growth on a constant currency basis are considered non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance or financial position that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally included or excluded in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. Non-GAAP measures used by management may differ from similar measures used by other companies, even when similar terms are used to identify such measures.

We believe these measures provide analysts, investors and management with helpful information regarding the underlying operating performance of our business, as they remove the impact of items that management believes are not reflective of underlying operating performance. Management uses these measures to evaluate period-over-period performance as management believes they provide a more comparable measure of the underlying business.

Non-GAAP operating income

Non-GAAP operating income was $380 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019, an increase of $46 million, or 13.9%, compared to $334 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018. As a percentage of Net sales, Non-GAAP operating income was 7.8% and 7.6% for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.




Non-GAAP net income

Non-GAAP net income was $250 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019, an increase of $32 million, or 14.8%, compared to $218 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018.





Net sales growth on a constant currency basis

Net sales increased $535 million, or 12.2%, to $4,908 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to $4,373 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018. Net sales on a constant currency basis, which excludes the impact of foreign currency translation, increased $552 million, or 12.7%.




Nine Months Overview






Results of Operations

Nine Months Ended September 30, 2019 Compared to Nine Months Ended September 30, 2018 



Net sales




Total Net sales for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 increased $1,330 million, or 10.9%, to $13,495 million, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2018. Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, constant currency Net sales growth was 11.6%. See "Non-GAAP Financial Measure Reconciliations" below for additional information regarding constant currency Net sales growth.

For the nine months ended September 30, 2019, Net sales growth reflected growth across most major product categories, particularly client devices, software and services. Additionally, eight months of results from Scalar, which was acquired on February 1, 2019, 

contributed to our Net sales growth. For additional details, see Note 12 (Segment Information) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.

Corporate segment Net sales for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 increased $528 million, or 10.5%, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2018. Growth was primarily driven by client devices and software.

Small Business segment Net sales for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 increased $122 million, or 12.2%, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2018. Growth was primarily driven by client devices.

Public segment Net sales for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 increased $531 million, or 11.2%, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2018. The increase was primarily driven by growth in Government and Healthcare. Net sales to Government customers increased 19.9% primarily driven by client devices, software and enterprise storage. Net sales to Healthcare customers increased 11.2% primarily driven by client devices, software and services. Net sales to Education customers increased 4.1% primarily driven by client devices and video.

Net sales in Other, which is comprised of results from our UK and Canadian operations, for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 increased $149 million, or 10.5%, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2018. Both operations grew in local currency and Canada growth included the incremental Net sales from Scalar. The impact of foreign currency exchange decreased Other sales growth by approximately 560 basis points, due to the unfavorable impact resulting from the British pound and Canadian dollar to US dollar translations.

Gross profit

Gross profit increased $249 million, or 12.4%, to $2,262 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, compared to $2,013 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018. As a percentage of Net sales, Gross profit margin increased 30 basis points to 16.8% for the nine months ended September 30, 2019. Gross profit margin was positively impacted by an increase in the mix of netted down revenues, such as Software as a Service and warranties.

Selling and administrative expenses

Selling and administrative expenses increased $134 million, or 11.9%, to $1,269 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, compared to $1,135 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018. The increase was driven by higher payroll expenses due to higher sales payroll expenses, including sales commissions, which are primarily driven by higher gross profit, the inclusion of Scalar expenses, and performance-based compensation consistent with higher attainment against goals.

As a percentage of Net sales, selling and administrative expenses increased 10 basis points to 9.4% during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, from 9.3% in the nine months ended September 30, 2018.

Operating income

During the first quarter of 2019, we evaluated our methodology for allocating certain depreciation and amortization expenses to each of our segments. The evaluation resulted in a revision to the allocation of depreciation and amortization expenses from Headquarters to our reportable segments, effective January 1, 2019. The prior period results have been recast to reflect these changes and present comparable information.







Operating income was $850 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, an increase of $105 million, or 14.2%, compared to $744 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018. Operating income increased primarily due to higher gross profit dollars partially offset by higher payroll expenses. Total operating margin percentage increased 20 basis points to 6.3% for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, from 6.1% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 due to mix into netted down revenues.

Corporate segment Operating income was $431 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, an increase of $43 million, or 10.9%, compared to $388 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018. Corporate segment Operating income increased primarily due to higher gross profit dollars partially offset by higher payroll expenses. Corporate segment operating margin percentage remained flat at 7.8% for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018. 

Small Business segment Operating income was $78 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, an increase of $8 million, or 11.7%, compared to $70 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018. Small Business segment Operating income increased primarily due to higher gross profit dollars partially offset by higher payroll expense. Small Business segment operating margin percentage remained flat at 7.0% for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018.

Public segment Operating income was $374 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, an increase of $56 million, or 17.5%, compared to $318 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018. Public segment Operating income increased primarily due to higher gross profit dollars partially offset by higher sales payroll expenses. Public segment operating margin percentage increased 40 basis points to 7.1% for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, from 6.7% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 due to product margin improvement partially offset by higher payroll expenses.

Other Operating income was $67 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, an increase of $6 million, or 9.7%, compared to $61 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018. Other Operating income increased primarily due to higher gross profit dollars partially offset by higher payroll expenses, which was due to the inclusion of Scalar expenses, and the unfavorable translation of the British pound and Canadian dollar to US dollar. Other operating margin percentage decreased 10 basis points to 4.2% for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, from 4.3% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018. 

Interest expense, net

Interest expense, net for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 was $121 million, an increase of $9 million compared to $112 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018. This increase was primarily due to paying an effective interest rate on the term loan in 2019 that exceeded the capped rate in 2018.

Other (expense) income, net

During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, there was a $16 million net loss on extinguishment of long-term debt. For additional details, see Note 7 (Long-Term Debt) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.

Income tax expense

Income tax expense was $162 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, compared to $150 million for the same period of the prior year. The effective tax rate, expressed by calculating the income tax expense as a percentage of Income before income taxes, was 22.8% and 23.7% for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and differed from the US federal statutory rate of 21.0% primarily due to state income taxes partially offset by excess tax benefits on equity-based compensation. 

The lower effective tax rate for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the same period of the prior year was primarily attributable to higher excess tax benefits on equity-based compensation and a discrete tax benefit related to CDW Canada's acquisition of Scalar.

Non-GAAP Financial Measure Reconciliations

We have included reconciliations of Non-GAAP operating income, Non-GAAP income before income taxes, Non-GAAP net income and Net sales growth on a constant currency basis for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 below.

Non-GAAP operating income

Non-GAAP operating income was $1,026 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, an increase of $109 million, or 11.9%, compared to $917 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018. As a percentage of Net sales, Non-GAAP operating income was 7.6% and 7.5% for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018.




Non-GAAP net income

Non-GAAP net income was $673 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, an increase of $79 million, or 13.4%, compared to $594 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018.






Net sales growth on a constant currency basis

Net sales increased $1,330 million, or 10.9%, to $13,495 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, compared to $12,166 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018. Net sales on a constant currency basis, which excludes the impact of foreign currency translation, increased $1,399 million, or 11.6%.




Seasonality

While we have not historically experienced significant seasonality throughout the year, sales in our Corporate segment, which primarily serves US private sector business customers with more than 250 employees, are typically higher in the fourth quarter than in other quarters due to customers spending their remaining technology budget dollars at the end of the year. Additionally, sales in our Public segment have historically been higher in the third quarter than in other quarters primarily due to the buying patterns of the federal government and education customers.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Overview

We finance our operations and capital expenditures with internally generated cash from operations. As of September 30, 2019, we also have $1.1 billion of availability for borrowings under our senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility and an 

additional £50 million ($61 million at September 30, 2019) under the CDW UK revolving credit facility. Our liquidity and borrowing plans are established to align with our financial and strategic planning processes and ensure we have the necessary funding to meet our operating commitments, which primarily include the purchase of inventory, payroll and general expenses. We also take into consideration our overall capital allocation strategy, which includes investment for future growth, dividend payments, acquisitions and share repurchases. We believe we have adequate sources of liquidity and funding available for at least the next year; however, there are a number of factors that may negatively impact our available sources of funds. The amount of cash generated from operations will be dependent upon factors such as the successful execution of our business plan and general economic conditions.

Long-Term Debt and Financing Arrangements

On September 26, 2019, we refinanced our 2023 Senior Notes through the issuance of 2028 Senior Notes. For additional details, see Note 7 (Long-Term Debt) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. On October 11, 2019, we extended the maturity date of the Term Loan from August 2023 to October 2026.

As of September 30, 2019, we had total indebtedness of $3.3 billion, of which $1.5 billion was secured indebtedness. At September 30, 2019, we were in compliance with the covenants under our various credit agreements and indentures. 

Inventory Financing Agreements

We have entered into agreements with certain financial intermediaries to facilitate the purchase of inventory from various suppliers under certain terms and conditions. These amounts are classified separately as Accounts payable-inventory financing on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. We do not incur any interest expense associated with these agreements as balances are paid when they are due. For additional details, see Note 4 (Inventory Financing Agreements) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.

Share Repurchase Program

During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we repurchased 4.8 million shares of our common stock for $493 million under the previously announced share repurchase program. For additional details on our share repurchase program, see Part II, Item 2, Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.

Dividends



On October 31, 2019, we announced that our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.380 per common share. The dividend will be paid on December 10, 2019 to all stockholders of record as of the close of business on November 25, 2019.

The payment of any future dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon our results of operations, financial condition, business prospects, capital requirements, contractual restrictions, any potential indebtedness we may incur, restrictions imposed by applicable law, tax considerations and other factors that our Board of Directors deems relevant. In addition, our ability to pay dividends on our common stock will be limited by restrictions on our ability to pay dividends or make distributions to our stockholders and on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make distributions to us, in each case, under the terms of our current and any future agreements governing our indebtedness.

Cash Flows



Operating Activities













The cash conversion cycle decreased to 17 days at September 30, 2019, compared to 18 days at September 30, 2018. DSO, DIO and DPO increased 1 day, 1 day and 3 days, respectively, compared to September 30, 2018. The increase in DSO was primarily driven by higher Net sales and third-party services such as Software as a Service and warranties. These sales have an unfavorable impact on DSO as the receivable is recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheets on a gross basis while the corresponding sales amount in the Consolidated Statement of Operations is recorded on a net basis. This was partially offset by favorable timing of collections. Higher Net sales and third-party services also result in a favorable impact on DPO as the payable is recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheets without a corresponding Cost of sales in the Statement of Operations because the cost paid to the vendor or third-party service provider is recorded as a reduction to Net sales. Additionally, DIO increased due to higher customer-driven stocking positions.

Investing Activities

Net cash used in investing activities increased $97 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 compared to September 30, 2018. The increase was primarily due to the completion of our acquisition of Scalar on February 1, 2019 for $75 million. Additionally, Capital expenditures increased $22 million primarily due to investments for improvements to our information technology systems.

Financing Activities

Net cash used in financing activities increased $133 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 compared to September 30, 2018. The increase was primarily driven by our share repurchases and increasing dividends per share during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, which were partially offset by refinancing of our 2023 Senior Notes through the issuance of 2028 Senior Notes, further leveraging of our inventory financing arrangements and borrowings under our revolving credit facilities. For additional details regarding our debt activities, see Note 7 (Long-Term Debt) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.

Contractual Obligations

Except as disclosed above under "Long-Term Debt and Financing Arrangements," there have been no material changes to our contractual obligations from those reported in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We have no off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a material current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.

Commitments and Contingencies

The information set forth in Note 11 (Commitments and Contingencies) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements is incorporated herein by reference.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

Our critical accounting policies have not changed from those reported in Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

The information set forth in Note 2 (Recent Accounting Pronouncements) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements is incorporated herein by reference.

Forward-Looking Statements

This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. All statements other than statements of historical fact included in this report are forward-looking statements. These statements relate to analyses and other information, which are based on forecasts of future results and estimates of amounts not yet determinable. These statements also relate to our future prospects, developments and business strategies. We claim the protection of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 for all forward-looking statements in this report.

These forward-looking statements are identified by the use of terms and phrases such as "anticipate," "believe," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "plan," "predict," "project," "should," "will" and similar terms and phrases, including references to assumptions. However, these words are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. Although we believe that our plans, intentions and expectations reflected in or suggested by such forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot assure you that we will achieve those plans, intentions or expectations. All forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those that we expected.

Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations, or cautionary statements, are disclosed under the section entitled "Risk Factors" included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 and from time to time in our subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and our other US Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") filings. These factors include, among others, global and regional economic and political conditions; decreases in spending on technology products and services; CDW's relationships with vendor partners and availability of their products; continued innovations in hardware, software and services offerings by CDW's vendor partners; substantial competition that could reduce CDW's market share; CDW's substantial indebtedness and ability to generate sufficient cash to service such indebtedness; restrictions imposed by agreements relating to CDW's indebtedness on its operations and liquidity; changes in, or the discontinuation of, CDW's share repurchase program or dividend payments; the continuing development, maintenance and operation of CDW's information technology systems; potential breaches of data security and failure to protect our information technology systems from cybersecurity threats; potential failures to comply with Public segment contracts or applicable laws and regulations; potential failures to provide high-quality services to CDW's customers; potential losses of any key personnel; potential interruptions of the flow of products from suppliers; potential adverse occurrences at one of CDW's primary facilities or customer data centers; increases in the cost of commercial delivery services or disruptions of those services; CDW's exposure to accounts receivable and inventory risks; fluctuations in foreign currency; future acquisitions or alliances; fluctuations in CDW's operating results; current and future legal proceedings and audits; changes in laws, including regulations or interpretations thereof; and other risk factors or uncertainties identified from time to time in CDW's filings with the SEC. All written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us, or persons acting on our behalf, are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained in the section entitled "Risk Factors" included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 and elsewhere in this report as well as other cautionary statements that are made from time to time in our other SEC filings and public communications. You should evaluate all forward-looking statements made in this report in the context of these risks and uncertainties.

We caution you that the important factors referenced above may not contain all of the factors that could cause actual results to differ from our expectations. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will realize the results or developments we expect or anticipate or, even if substantially realized, that they will result in the consequences or affect us or our operations in the way we expect. The forward-looking statements included in this report are made only as of the date hereof. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as otherwise required by law.

Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures of Market Risks" in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. As of September 30, 2019, there have been no material changes in this information.

Item 4. Controls and Procedures

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

The Company's management, with the participation of the Company's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of the Company's disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) or Rule 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")) as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based on such evaluation, the Company's management, including the Company's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has concluded that, as of the end of such period, the Company's disclosure controls and procedures were effective in recording, processing, summarizing and reporting, on a timely basis, information required to be disclosed by the Company in 

the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act, and that information is accumulated and communicated to the Company's management, including the Company's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely discussions regarding required disclosure.

Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting

There have been no changes in the Company's internal control over financial reporting during the three months ended September 30, 2019 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial reporting.

PART II—OTHER INFORMATION

Item 1. Legal Proceedings

The information set forth in Note 11 (Commitments and Contingencies) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 "Financial Statements", of this report is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 1A. Risk Factors

See "Risk Factors" in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.

Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds

Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities

None.

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities




Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities

None.

Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures

Not applicable.

Item 5. Other Information

None.

Item 6. Exhibits





SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


