
UNITED STATES  

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  





QUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  

For the quarterly period ended March 31, 2019 

OR  


TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  

For the transition period from   to    

Commission file number 0-27512  

CSG SYSTEMS INTERNATIONAL, INC.  



6175 S. Willow Drive, 10th Floor 

Greenwood Village, Colorado 80111  






Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company,” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.  






CSG SYSTEMS INTERNATIONAL, INC.  

FORM 10-Q for the Quarter Ended March 31, 2019 

INDEX  



CSG SYSTEMS INTERNATIONAL, INC. 

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS - UNAUDITED  



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 


CSG SYSTEMS INTERNATIONAL, INC.  

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME - UNAUDITED  



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.  


CSG SYSTEMS INTERNATIONAL, INC.  

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME - UNAUDITED  



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.  


CSG SYSTEMS INTERNATIONAL, INC.  

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY - UNAUDITED  



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.  


CSG SYSTEMS INTERNATIONAL, INC.  

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS - UNAUDITED  



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.  


CSG SYSTEMS INTERNATIONAL, INC.  

NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)  



2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  

Use of Estimates in Preparation of Financial Statements.  The preparation of the accompanying Financial Statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of our Financial Statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. Actual results could differ from those estimates.   





Deferred revenue recognized during the first quarter of 2019 was $18.5 million. 

Cash and Cash Equivalents. We consider all highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less at the date of the purchase to be cash equivalents. As of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, our cash equivalents consist primarily of institutional money market funds, commercial paper, and time deposits held at major banks.  


As of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, we had $3.0 million, as of both periods, of restricted cash that serves to collateralize outstanding letters of credit. This restricted cash is included in cash and cash equivalents in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (“Balance Sheets” or “Balance Sheet”).  

Short-term Investments and Other Financial Instruments. Our financial instruments as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 include cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and debt. Because of their short maturities, the carrying amounts of cash equivalents, accounts receivable, and accounts payable approximate their fair value.  

Our short-term investments and certain of our cash equivalents are considered “available-for-sale” and are reported at fair value in our Balance Sheets, with unrealized gains and losses, net of the related income tax effect, excluded from earnings and reported in a separate component of stockholders’ equity. Realized and unrealized gains and losses were not material in any period presented.  


Our short-term investments as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 were $18.3 million and $23.6 million, respectively.  



Valuation inputs used to measure the fair values of our money market funds and corporate equity securities were derived from quoted market prices. The fair values of all other financial instruments are based upon pricing provided by third-party pricing services. These prices were derived from observable market inputs.  



The fair value for our credit agreement was estimated using a discounted cash flow methodology, while the fair value for our convertible debt was estimated based upon quoted market prices or recent sales activity, both of which are considered Level 2 inputs. 

Equity Method Investment. In the first quarter of 2019, we made an additional $4 million investment in a payment technology and services company that enables omni-channel digital payments in Latin America. As of March 31, 2019, we held an 8% noncontrolling interest with a carrying value of $6.7 million. 


Accounting Pronouncements Adopted. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842). This ASU requires lessees to recognize a right-of-use asset and lease liability for all leases, including operating leases, with a term greater than twelve months on its balance sheet. This ASU is effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 31, 2018. An entity is required to use a modified retrospective transition approach, but may choose to use either the effective date or the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in its financial statements as of the date of initial application.  

We adopted this ASU in January 2019, utilizing the effective date method of transition. Since we adopted this ASU utilizing the effective date method, prior period information in our Financial Statements has not been adjusted and continues to be as previously reported. We elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance within the new standard. Additionally, we updated our polices to align with the new accounting guidance and our processes to ensure that we properly account for new, existing, and modifications to leases subsequent to the adoption of the ASU. In conjunction with the adoption of this ASU we recorded additional assets and liabilities of approximately $80 million related to the right-of-use assets and lease liabilities, and have included the amortization of the right-of-use-assets and the accretion and payments of lease liabilities in the changes in other current and non-current assets and liabilities and in the changes in trade accounts payable and accrued liabilities, respectively, on our Statement of Cash Flows.  









The total amortization expense related to client contract costs for the first quarters of 2019 and 2018 were $6.0 million and $5.5 million, respectively. 






During the first quarter of 2019, we made $1.9 million of principal repayments on our $150 million aggregate principal five-year term loan (the “2018 Term Loan”). As of March 31, 2019, our interest rate on the 2018 Term Loan is 4.10% (adjusted LIBOR plus 1.50% per annum), effective through June 28, 2019, and our commitment fee on the unused $200 million aggregate principal five-year revolving loan facility (the “2018 Revolver”) is 0.20%. As of March 31, 2019, we had no borrowings outstanding on our 2018 Revolver and had the entire $200.0 million available to us.  



The 2016 Convertible Notes will be convertible at the option of the note holders upon the satisfaction of specified conditions and during certain periods. During the period from, and including, December 15, 2021 to the close of business on the business day immediately preceding March 15, 2022 and on or after December 15, 2035, holders may convert all or any portion of their 2016 Convertible Notes at the conversion rate then in effect at any time regardless of these conditions.  

As a result of us increasing our quarterly dividend in March 2019 (see Note 8), the previous conversion rate for the 2016 Convertible Notes of 17.5298 shares of our common stock per $1,000 principal amount of the 2016 Convertible Notes, which is equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $57.05 per share of our common stock, has been adjusted to 17.5457 shares of our common stock per $1,000 principal amount of the 2016 Convertible Notes, which is equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $56.99 per share of our common stock. 

Holders may require us to repurchase the 2016 Convertible Notes for cash on each of March 15, 2022, March 15, 2026, and March 15, 2031, or upon the occurrence of a fundamental change (as defined in the 2016 Convertible Notes Indenture) in each case at a purchase price equal to the principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest.  


We may not redeem the 2016 Convertible Notes prior to March 20, 2020. On or after March 20, 2020, we may redeem for cash all or part of the 2016 Convertible Notes if the last reported sale price of our common stock has been at least 130% of the conversion price then in effect for at least 20 trading days (whether or not consecutive) during any 30 consecutive trading day period (including the last trading day of such period) ending on, and including, the trading day immediately preceding the date on which we provide notice of redemption. On or after March 15, 2022, we may redeem for cash all or part of the 2016 Convertible Notes regardless of the sales price condition described in the preceding sentence. In each case, the redemption price will equal the principal amount of the 2016 Convertible Notes to be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest.  

As of March 31, 2019, none of the conversion features have been achieved, and thus, the 2016 Convertible Notes are not convertible by the holders. 



We have made an accounting policy election not to recognize on our balance sheet, leases with an initial term of twelve months or less, for any class of underlying asset. We have also made an election for real estate leases beginning in 2019 and later, not to separate the lease and non-lease components, but rather account for the entire arrangement as a single lease component (a practical expedient allowed under ASC 842). For our outsourced data center environment agreement, we have concluded that there are lease and non-lease components, and have allocated the consideration in the agreement on a relative stand-alone price basis. Due to the significant assumptions and judgements required in accounting for leases (to include whether a contract contains a lease, the allocation of the consideration, and the determination of the discount rate), the judgements and estimates made could have a significant effect on the amount of assets and liabilities recognized. 

We sublease certain of our leased real estate to third parties. These subleases have remaining lease terms of up to four years and certain subleases have renewal terms that can extend the lease for up to an additional two years.  









For leases commencing prior to 2019, minimum lease payments exclude payments for real estate taxes and non-lease components.  


We used our in-country, currency adjusted incremental borrowing rate for the discount rate for the leases at adoption date, and will use the same approach for all leases beginning in 2019 or later. 

As of March 31, 2019, we have an additional operating lease related to our outsourced data center environment that has not yet commenced of approximately $9 million. This operating lease will commence during 2019 with a lease term through 2022. 


6. COMMITMENTS, GUARANTEES AND CONTINGENCIES  

Warranties.  We generally warrant that our solutions and related offerings will conform to published specifications, or to specifications provided in an individual client arrangement, as applicable. The typical warranty period is 90 days from the date of acceptance of the solution or offering. For certain service offerings we provide a warranty for the duration of the services provided. We generally warrant that services will be performed in a professional and workmanlike manner. The typical remedy for breach of warranty is to correct or replace any defective deliverable, and if not possible or practical, we will accept the return of the defective deliverable and refund the amount paid under the client arrangement that is allocable to the defective deliverable. Our contracts also generally contain limitation of damages provisions in an effort to reduce our exposure to monetary damages arising from breach of warranty claims. Historically, we have incurred minimal warranty costs, and as a result, do not maintain a warranty reserve.  


Claims for Company Non-performance. Our arrangements with our clients typically cap our liability for breach to a specified amount of the direct damages incurred by the client resulting from the breach. From time-to-time, these arrangements may also include provisions for possible liquidated damages or other financial and contractual remedies for our non-performance, or in the case of certain of our outsourced customer care and billing solutions, provisions for damages related to service level performance requirements. The service level performance requirements typically relate to system availability and timeliness of service delivery. Historically, we have not incurred significant costs associated with service level performance within our client contracts, and as a result, do not include estimates for potential credits or refunds related to service level performance in our contract consideration at the onset of the contract, but instead, account for credits or refunds as an adjustment to the contract consideration as those events occur.  



Acquisition . On October 1, 2018, we acquired Forte, a leading provider of advanced payment solutions headquartered in Allen, Texas. We acquired 100% of the equity of Forte for a purchase price of approximately $93 million, (approximately $85 million, excluding cash acquired), of which approximately $13 million of the purchase price was held back subject to certain tax filings. The purchase agreement also includes provisions for $18.8 million of potential future earn-out payments over a four-year measurement period. The earn-out payments are tied to performance-based goals and a defined service period by the eligible recipients and is being accounted for as post-acquisition compensation. As of March 31, 2019, we accrued $2.5 million related to the potential earn-out payments.  

The determination of the deductibility of goodwill for income tax purposes is dependent on the resolution of the income tax matter. The estimated fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed for the Forte acquisition are considered provisional, as we are awaiting resolution of the tax filings to complete the accounting for deferred income taxes. Thus, the provisional measurement of fair value is subject to change and such changes may be significant. We expect to complete the purchase price allocation as soon as practicable, but not later than one-year from the acquisition date. 

Legal Proceedings. From time-to-time, we are involved in litigation relating to claims arising out of our operations in the normal course of business. We are not presently a party to any material pending or threatened legal proceedings. 

7. EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE  

Basic and diluted earnings per common share (“EPS”) amounts are presented on the face of the accompanying Income Statements. 



The Convertible Notes have a dilutive effect only in those quarterly periods in which our average stock price exceeds the current effective conversion price (see Note 4).  

The stock warrants have a dilutive effect only in those quarterly periods in which our average stock price exceeds the exercise price of $26.68 per warrant (under the treasury stock method), and are not subject to performance vesting conditions (see Note 8).  

Potentially dilutive common shares related to non-participating unvested restricted stock excluded from the computation of diluted EPS, as the effect was antidilutive, were not material in any period presented.  

8. STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND EQUITY COMPENSATION PLANS  

Stock Repurchase Program.  We currently have a stock repurchase program, approved by our Board, authorizing us to repurchase our common stock from time-to-time as market and business conditions warrant (the “Stock Repurchase Program”). During the first quarters of 2019 and 2018, we repurchased 0.2 million shares of our common stock for $9.3 million (weighted-average price of $37.37 per share) and 0.1 million shares of our common stock for $5.7 million (weighted-average price of $45.78 per share), respectively, under a SEC Rule 10b5-1 Plan.  

As of March 31, 2019, the total remaining number of shares available for repurchase under the Stock Repurchase Program totaled 5.3 million shares.  

Stock Repurchases for Tax Withholdings.  In addition to the above-mentioned stock repurchases, during the first quarters of 2019 and 2018, we repurchased and then cancelled 0.1 million shares of common stock for $4.1 million and 0.1 million shares of common stock for $6.2 million, respectively, in connection with minimum tax withholding requirements resulting from the vesting of restricted common stock under our stock incentive plans.  


Cash Dividends. During the first quarter of 2019, the Board approved a quarterly cash dividend of $0.2225 per share of common stock, totaling $7.4 million. During the first quarter of 2018, the Board approved a quarterly cash dividend of $0.21 per share of common stock, totaling $7.1 million.  

Warrants. In 2014, in conjunction with the execution of an amendment to our current agreement with Comcast, we issued stock warrants (the “Warrant Agreement”) for the right to purchase up to approximately 2.9 million shares of our common stock (the “Stock Warrants”) as an additional incentive for Comcast to convert customer accounts onto our Advanced Convergent Platform based on various milestones. The Stock Warrants have a ten-year term and an exercise price of $26.68 per warrant.  

Upon vesting, the Stock Warrants are recorded as a client contract incentive asset with the corresponding offset to stockholders’ equity. The client contract incentive asset related to the Stock Warrants is amortized as a reduction in cloud and related solutions revenues over the remaining term of the Comcast amended agreement. As of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, we recorded a client contract incentive asset related to these Stock Warrants of $25.1 million as of both periods and have recorded accumulated amortization related to these Stock Warrants of $22.4 million and $19.8 million, respectively. The remaining unvested Stock Warrants will be accounted for as client contract incentive assets in the period the performance conditions necessary for vesting have been met.  

As of March 31, 2019, approximately 1.4 million Stock Warrants remain issued, of which 0.4 million were vested.  



Included in the awards granted during the first quarter of 2019 are performance-based awards for 0.1 million restricted common stock shares issued to members of executive management and certain key employees, which vest in the first quarter of 2021 upon meeting certain pre-established financial performance objectives over a two-year performance period. Certain performance-based awards become fully vested upon a change in control, as defined, the subsequent involuntary termination of employment, and death.  

The other restricted common stock shares granted during the first quarter of 2019 are primarily time-based awards, which vest annually over four years with no restrictions other than the passage of time. Certain shares of the restricted common stock become fully vested upon a change in control, as defined, the subsequent involuntary termination of employment, and death.  

We recorded stock-based compensation expense for the first quarters of 2019 and 2018 of $3.7 million and $4.6 million, respectively.  


Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  


Forward-Looking Statements 

This report contains a number of forward-looking statements relative to our future plans and our expectations concerning our business and the industries we serve. These forward-looking statements are based on assumptions about a number of important factors, and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from estimates contained in the forward-looking statements. Some of the risks that are foreseen by management are outlined within Part II Item 1A. Risk Factors of this report and in Part I Item 1A. Risk Factors of our 2018 10-K. Readers are strongly encouraged to review those sections closely in conjunction with MD&A.  

Company Overview 

We are one of the world’s leading revenue management and digital monetization, customer experience, and payment solutions providers, and a trusted partner to some of the most well-known communications, media, and entertainment companies around the globe. We leverage more than 35 years of experience to help our clients simplify the complexity of a rapidly changing business landscape. Drawing from real-world knowledge and unparalleled expertise, we design and implement business solutions that make their hardest decisions simpler and smarter so they can focus on evolving their businesses to provide highly sophisticated and competitive multi-product offerings while also delivering increasingly differentiated, real-time, and personalized experiences that meet the ever-changing demands of their customers across all stages of the customer lifecycle.  

We offer revenue management, customer experience, and digital monetization solutions for every stage of the customer lifecycle so service providers can deliver an outstanding customer experience that adapts to their customers’ rapidly changing demands. Our solutions are built on proven public and private cloud platforms, with out-of-the-box and managed service models that adapt to fit their unique business needs and enable the transformative change required to create personalized experiences that drive loyalty and retention. 


We generate approximately 55% of our revenues from the North American cable and satellite markets, approximately 20% of our revenues from global wireline and wireless communication providers, and the remainder from a variety of other verticals, such as financial services, healthcare, logistics, and transportation. Additionally, during the first quarter of 2019 we generated approximately 86% of our revenues from the Americas region, approximately 10% of our revenues from the Europe, Middle East and Africa region, and approximately 4% of our revenues from the Asia Pacific region. 


Impact of New Lease Accounting Pronouncement 

In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) (“ASC 842”), which requires lessees to recognize a lease liability and a right-of-use asset for all leases, including operating leases, with a term greater than twelve months on its balance sheet. We adopted the ASU in January of 2019, utilizing the effective date method of transition. While the adoption of this standard resulted in a material gross-up of our Balance Sheet assets and liabilities, it did not have a material impact on our Income Statement or Statement of Cash Flows. 

Refer to Notes 2 and 5 to our Financial Statements for further detail regarding the adoption of ASC 842. 


Management Overview of Quarterly Results 




Stock-based compensation included in the table above excludes amounts that have been recorded in restructuring and reorganization charges. 

Revenues. Revenues for the first quarter of 2019 were $244.8 million, a 21% increase when compared to revenues of $201.7 million for the first quarter of 2018, with the increase mainly attributed to the additional revenues generated from the acquisitions of Forte on October 1, 2018 and Business Ink on February 28, 2018, and the continued growth in our cloud solutions and managed service arrangements. 

Operating Results. Operating income for the first quarter of 2019 was $32.1 million, or a 13.1% operating margin percentage, compared to $25.8 million, or a 12.8% operating margin percentage for the first quarter of 2018. The increase in operating income is primarily a result of the higher revenues generated in the first quarter of 2019, as reflected by our relatively consistent operating margin percentage.  

Diluted EPS. Diluted EPS for the first quarter of 2019 was $0.59 compared to $0.42 for the first quarter of 2018, reflective of the higher operating income for the first quarter of 2019. 

Cash and Cash Flows. As of March 31, 2019, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $141.9 million, as compared to $162.9 million as of December 31, 2018. Our cash flows from operating activities for the first quarter of 2019 were $12.8 million. See the Liquidity section below for further discussion of our cash flows. 

Significant Client Relationships  

Client Concentration. A large percentage of our historical revenues have been generated from our two largest clients, which are Comcast and Charter Corporation Inc. (“Charter”). 






See our 2018 10-K for additional discussion of our business relationships and contractual terms with Comcast and Charter. 

Comcast. Comcast continues to be our largest client, generating 22% of our total revenues for the first quarter of 2019. In November 2018, Comcast exercised the first of their two one-year renewal options extending the term of their agreement through June 30, 2020. Terms of the extension remain consistent with the financial terms and obligations under the existing agreement. Additionally, under the terms of the agreement, Comcast has the right to exercise an additional one-year renewal option no later than January 1, 2020, to extend the term of the Agreement through June 30, 2021.  


A copy of the Comcast agreement and related amendments, with confidential information redacted, is included in the exhibits to our periodic filings with the SEC. 


Critical Accounting Policies  

The preparation of our Financial Statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires us to select appropriate accounting policies, and to make judgments and estimates affecting the application of those accounting policies. In applying our accounting policies, different business conditions or the use of different assumptions may result in materially different amounts reported in our Financial Statements. 


Results of Operations 







Cloud and Related Solutions Revenues. Cloud and related solutions revenues for the first quarter of 2019 were $219.6 million, a 24% increase when compared to $177.5 million for the first quarter of 2018. The increase in cloud and related solutions revenues between periods is primarily due to the additional revenues generated from the acquired Business Ink and Forte businesses, discussed above, and to a lesser degree, the execution of and performance under managed services and Ascendon arrangements.  

Software and Services Revenues. Software and services revenues for the first quarter of 2019 were $13.0 million, a 9% increase when compared to $12.0 million for the first quarter of 2018, with the increase mainly attributed to the timing of work performed and execution of software license agreements. 

Maintenance Revenues. Maintenance revenues were consistent between the first quarters of 2019 and 2018, coming in at $12.2 million for both periods.  


The components of total expenses are discussed in more detail below. 

Cost of Revenues. See our 2018 10-K for a description of the types of costs that are included in the individual line items for cost of revenues. 



Cost of Cloud and Related Solutions (Exclusive of Depreciation). The cost of cloud and related solutions for the first quarter of 2019 increased 32% to $114.7 million, from $86.9 million for the first quarter of 2018. This increase can be mainly attributed to the cloud and related solutions expense of the acquired Business Ink and Forte businesses included in our results, to include acquisition amortization, and increased employee-related costs. Total cloud and related solutions cost as a percentage of cloud and related solutions revenues for the first quarters of 2019 and 2018 were 52.2% and 49.0%, respectively (with the first quarter of 2019 reflective of the transaction fees of $17.1 million).  

Cost of Software and Services (Exclusive of Depreciation). The cost of software and services for the first quarter of 2019 was $8.8 million, a slight increase from $8.5 million for the first quarter of 2018.  Total software and services cost as a percentage of our software and services revenues for the first quarters of 2019 and 2018 were 67.9% and 71.4%, respectively. 

Variability in quarterly revenues and operating results are inherent characteristics of companies that sell software licenses and perform professional services. Our quarterly revenues for software licenses and professional services may fluctuate, depending on various factors, including the timing of executed contracts and revenue recognition, and the delivery of contracted solutions. However, the costs  


associated with software and professional services revenues are not subject to the same degree of variability (e.g., these costs are generally fixed in nature within a relatively short period of time), and thus, fluctuations in our cost of software and services as a percentage of our software and services revenues will likely occur between periods.  

Cost of Maintenance (Exclusive of Depreciation). The cost of maintenance for the first quarter of 2019 was $5.5 million, a slight decrease from $5.7 million for the first quarter of 2018. Total cost of maintenance as a percentage of our maintenance revenues for the first quarters of 2019 and 2018 were 44.8% and 46.2%, respectively.  




Depreciation. Depreciation expense for the first quarter of 2019 increased 31% to $5.1 million, from $3.9 million for the first quarter of 2018. This increase can be primarily attributed to the increased level of capital expenditures we have made over the last twelve months on items such as technology, security, infrastructure, and modernization of equipment, and to a lesser degree, the depreciation expense from the acquired Business Ink and Forte assets. 

Operating Income.  Operating income for the first quarter of 2019 was $32.1 million, or 13.1% of total revenues, compared to $25.8 million, or 12.8% of total revenues for the first quarter of 2018. The increase in operating income is a result of the higher revenues generated in the first quarter of 2019, as reflected by our relatively consistent operating margin percentage.  

Loss on Extinguishment of Debt. In March 2018, we refinanced our 2015 Credit Agreement, and as a result, we incurred a loss of $0.8 million related to the write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs. 



 Our estimated full-year 2019 effective income tax rate is 26%.  

Liquidity  

Cash and Liquidity 

As of March 31, 2019, our principal sources of liquidity included cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $141.9 million, as compared to $162.9 million as of December 31, 2018. We generally invest our excess cash balances in low-risk, short-term investments to limit our exposure to market and credit risks.  

As part of our 2018 Credit Agreement, we have a $200 million senior secured revolving loan facility with a syndicate of financial institutions that expires in March 2023. As of March 31, 2019, there were no borrowings outstanding on the 2018 Revolver. The 2018 Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative covenants and financial covenants. As of March 31, 2019, and the date of this filing, we believe that we are in compliance with the provisions of the 2018 Credit Agreement.  




 We generally have ready access to substantially all of our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investment balances, but may face limitations on moving cash out of certain foreign jurisdictions due to currency controls. As of March 31, 2019, we had $3.0 million of cash restricted as to use primarily to collateralize outstanding letters of credit. 

Cash Flows from Operating Activities  




Cash flows from operating activities for the first quarters of 2019 and 2018 reflect the negative impacts of the payment of the 2018 and 2017 year-end accrued employee incentive compensation in the first quarter subsequent to the year-end accrual for these items. Additionally, cash flows from operating activities for the first quarter of 2019 were negatively impacted by the timing around a certain recurring client payment at quarter-end. This amount was subsequently collected in April 2019. 

We believe the above table illustrates our ability to generate recurring quarterly cash flows from our operations, and the importance of managing our working capital items. Variations in our net cash provided by operating activities are generally related to the changes in our operating assets and liabilities (related mostly to fluctuations in timing at quarter-end of client payments and changes in accrued expenses), and generally over longer periods of time, do not significantly impact our cash flows from operations. 



Billed Trade Accounts Receivable 

Management of our billed accounts receivable is one of the primary factors in maintaining consistently strong quarterly cash flows from operating activities. Our billed trade accounts receivable balance includes significant billings for several non-revenue items (primarily postage, sales tax, and deferred revenue items). As a result, we evaluate our performance in collecting our accounts receivable through our calculation of days billings outstanding (“DBO”) rather than a typical days sales outstanding (“DSO”) calculation.  



As of March 31, 2019, approximately 95% of our billed accounts receivable balance is less than 60 days past due. 


Accrued Employee Compensation 

Accrued employee compensation decreased $9.6 million to $51.5 million as of March 31, 2019, from $61.1 million as of December 31, 2018, due primarily to the payment of the 2018 employee incentive compensation that was fully accrued at December 31, 2018, offset to a certain degree by the accrual for the 2019 employee incentive compensation.  

Cash Flows from Investing Activities 





Cash Flows from Financing Activities  

Our financing activities typically consist of activities associated with our common stock and our long-term debt.  

Cash Dividends Paid on Common Stock. During the first quarters of 2019 and 2018, the Board approved dividend payments totaling $7.4 million and $7.1 million, respectively, of which $7.6 million and $7.4 million, respectively, had been paid through March 31, 2019 and 2018 (with the differences attributed to unvested incentive shares that are paid upon vesting).  

Repurchase of Common Stock. During the first quarters of 2019 and 2018, we repurchased 0.2 million and 0.1 million shares of our common stock, respectively, under the guidelines of our Stock Repurchase Program for $9.3 million and $5.7 million, respectively.  

Outside of our Stock Repurchase Program, during the first quarters of 2019 and 2018, we repurchased from our employees and then cancelled 0.1 million shares of our common stock in both periods, for $4.1 million and $6.2 million, respectively, in connection with minimum tax withholding requirements resulting from the vesting of restricted common stock under our stock incentive plans. 

Long-term Debt.  During the first quarter of 2019, we made principal repayments of $1.9 million.  

During the first quarter of 2018, we refinanced our 2015 Credit Agreement and as a result, we repaid the outstanding principal balance of $120.0 million and borrowed $150.0 million under the 2018 Credit Agreement, resulting in a net increase of available cash of $30.0 million. As part of the refinancing, we paid $1.4 million of deferred financing costs.  

See Note 4 to our Financial Statements for additional discussion of our long-term debt. 

Capital Resources  


Current Sources of Capital Resources.  

•  


•  

Operating Cash Flows. As described in the Liquidity section above, we believe we have the ability to generate strong cash flows to fund our operating activities and act as a source of funds for our capital resource needs.  

•  

Revolving Credit Facility. As of March 31, 2019, we had a $200 million revolving loan facility (2018 Revolver). As of March 31, 2019, we had no borrowing outstanding on our 2018 Revolver and had the entire $200 million available to us. Our long-term debt obligations are discussed in more detail in Note 4 to our Financial Statements. 


•  

Common Stock Repurchases. We have made repurchases of our common stock in the past under our Stock Repurchase Program. As of March 31, 2019, we had 5.3 million shares authorized for repurchase remaining under our Stock Repurchase Program. Our 2018 Credit Agreement places certain limitations on our ability to repurchase our common stock.  

In September 2018, we announced an increase in our planned share repurchases of up to $150 million under our Stock Repurchase Program over the next three years. Under our Stock Repurchase Program, we may repurchase shares in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, including through an accelerated stock repurchase plan or under a SEC Rule 10b5-1 plan. The actual timing and amount of future share repurchases will be dependent on then current market conditions and other business-related factors over the next three years. Our common stock repurchases are discussed in more detail in Note 8 to our Financial Statements. 

During the first quarter of 2019, we repurchased 0.2 million shares of our common stock for $9.3 million (weighted-average price of $37.37 per share).  


Outside of our Stock Repurchase Program, during the first quarter of 2019, we repurchased from our employees and then cancelled 0.1 million shares of our common stock for $4.1 million in connection with minimum tax withholding requirements resulting from the vesting of restricted common stock under our stock incentive plans. 

•  

Cash Dividends. During the first quarter of 2019, the Board declared dividends totaling $7.4 million. Going forward, we expect to pay cash dividends each year in March, June, September, and December, with the amount and timing subject to the Board’s approval. 

•  

Acquisition. On October 1, 2018, we acquired Forte, a leading provider of advanced payment solutions headquartered in Allen, Texas for a purchase price of approximately $93 million, (approximately $85 million, excluding cash acquired), and held back approximately $13 million in cash subject to certain tax filings. The purchase agreement includes provisions for $18.8 million of potential future earn-out payments over a four-year measurement period. The earn-out payments are tied to performance-based goals and continued employment by the eligible recipients.  


•  

Equity Method Investment. In the first quarter of 2019, we made an additional $4 million investment in a payment technology and services company that enables omni-channel digital payments in Latin America. As of March 31, 2019, we held an 8% noncontrolling interest with a carrying value of $6.7 million. 

•  

Capital Expenditures. During the first quarter of 2019, we spent $8.3 million on capital expenditures. As of March 31, 2019, we had committed to purchase approximately $6.5 million of equipment.  

•  

Stock Warrants. In 2014, we issued Stock Warrants with an exercise price of $26.68 per warrant to Comcast as an incentive for Comcast to convert new customer accounts to ACP. Once vested, Comcast may exercise the Stock Warrants and elect either physical delivery of common shares or net share settlement (cashless exercise). Alternatively, the exercise of the Stock Warrants may be settled with cash based solely on our approval, or if Comcast were to beneficially own or control in excess of 19.99% of our common stock or voting of the Company. As of March 31, 2019, approximately 1.4 million Stock Warrants are outstanding, of which 0.4 million are vested. 

The Stock Warrants are discussed in more detail in Note 8 to our Financial Statements.  

•  



During the next twelve months, there are no scheduled conversion triggers on our 2016 Convertible Notes. As a result, we expect our required debt service cash outlay during the next twelve months for the 2016 Convertible Notes to be limited to interest payments of $9.8 million. 


Our 2018 Credit Agreement mandatory repayments and the cash interest expense (based upon current interest rates) for the next twelve months is $7.5 million, and $6.3 million, respectively. We have the ability to make prepayments on our 2018 Credit Agreement without penalty.  

Our long-term debt obligations are discussed in more detail in Note 4 to our Financial Statements.  

In summary, we expect to continue to have material needs for capital resources going forward, as noted above. We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments balances and our 2018 Revolver, together with cash expected to be generated in the future from our current operating activities, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated capital resource requirements for at least the next twelve months. We also believe we could obtain additional capital through other debt sources which may be available to us if deemed appropriate. 


Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

Market risk is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices. As of March 31, 2019, we are exposed to various market risks, including changes in interest rates, fluctuations and changes in the market value of our cash equivalents and short-term investments, and changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We have not historically entered into derivatives or other financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.  

Interest Rate Risk  

Long-Term Debt. The interest rate on our 2016 Convertible Notes is fixed, and thus, as it relates to our convertible debt borrowings, we are not exposed to changes in interest rates.  

The interest rates under our 2018 Credit Agreement are based upon an adjusted LIBOR rate plus an applicable margin, or an alternate base rate plus an applicable margin. See Note 4 to our Financial Statements for further details of our long-term debt.  

A hypothetical adverse change of 10% in the March 31, 2019 adjusted LIBOR rate would not have had a material impact upon our results of operations.  

Market Risk 

Cash Equivalents and Short-term Investments. Our cash and cash equivalents as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 were $123.6 million and $139.3 million, respectively. Certain of our cash balances are “swept” into overnight money market accounts on a daily basis, and at times, any excess funds are invested in low-risk, somewhat longer term, cash equivalent instruments and short-term investments. Our cash equivalents are invested primarily in institutional money market funds, commercial paper, and time deposits held at major banks. We have minimal market risk for our cash and cash equivalents due to the relatively short maturities of the instruments.  


Settlement Assets. We are exposed to market risk associated with cash held on behalf of our clients related to our payment processing services. As of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, we had $87.9 million and $124.6 million, respectively, of cash collected on behalf of our clients which is held for an established holding period until settlement with the client. The holding period is generally one to four business days depending on the payment model and contractual terms with the client. During the holding period, cash is held in trust accounts with various major financial institutions in the U.S. in an amount equal to at least 100% of the aggregate amount owed to our clients.  

Long-Term Debt. The fair value of our convertible debt is exposed to market risk. We do not carry our convertible debt at fair value but present the fair value for disclosure purposes (see Note 2 to our Financial Statements). Generally, the fair value of our convertible debt is impacted by changes in interest rates and changes in the price and volatility of our common stock. As of March 31, 2019, the fair value of the 2016 Convertible Notes was estimated at $242.4 million, using quoted market prices.  

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk  

Due to foreign operations around the world, our balance sheet and income statement are exposed to foreign currency exchange risk due to the fluctuations in the value of currencies in which we conduct business. While we attempt to maximize natural hedges by incurring expenses in the same currency in which we contract revenue, the related expenses for that revenue could be in one or more differing currencies than the revenue stream.  

During the first quarter of 2019, we generated approximately 88% of our revenues in U.S. dollars. We expect that, in the foreseeable future, we will continue to generate a very large percentage of our revenues in U.S. dollars.  




A hypothetical adverse change of 10% in the March 31, 2019 exchange rates would not have had a material impact upon our results of operations based on the monetary assets and liabilities as of March 31, 2019.  

Item 4. Controls and Procedures  


As required by Rule 13a-15(b), our management, including the Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), conducted an evaluation as of the end of the period covered by this report of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rule 13a-15(e). Based on that evaluation, the CEO and CFO concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this report.  

 (b) Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  

As required by Rule 13a-15(d), our management, including the CEO and CFO, also conducted an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting, as defined by Rule 13a-15(f), to determine whether any changes occurred during the quarter covered by this report that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. On January 1, 2019, we adopted ASC 842, Leases, which required us to makes changes to our policies, update our processes, and modify existing internal controls over financial reporting. Other than these changes to support the implementation of ASC 842, our CEO and CFO concluded that there were no other changes during the quarter covered by this report that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 


CSG SYSTEMS INTERNATIONAL, INC. 

PART II. OTHER INFORMATION  

Item 1. Legal Proceedings  

From time-to-time, we are involved in litigation relating to claims arising out of our operations in the normal course of business. We are not presently a party to any material pending or threatened legal proceedings.  

Item 1A. Risk Factors  

A discussion of our risk factors can be found in Item 1A. Risk Factors in our 2018 Form 10-K. There were no material changes to the risk factors disclosed in our 2018 Form 10-K during the first quarter of 2019. 

Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  

The following table presents information with respect to purchases of our common stock made during the first quarter of 2019 by CSG Systems International, Inc. or any “affiliated purchaser” of CSG Systems International, Inc., as defined in Rule 10b-18(a)(3) under the Exchange Act. 



The total number of shares purchased that are not part of the Stock Repurchase Program represents shares purchased and cancelled in connection with stock incentive plans. 


See Note 8 to our Financial Statements for additional information regarding our share repurchases. 

Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities  

None  

Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures  

None  

Item 5. Other Information  

None  

Item 6. Exhibits  

The Exhibits filed or incorporated by reference herewith are as specified in the Exhibit Index.  


CSG SYSTEMS INTERNATIONAL, INC.  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS  



Portions of the exhibit have been omitted pursuant to SEC rules regarding confidential information.  


SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.  



