

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION





 For The Quarterly Period Ended June 30, 2019

OR




CTS CORPORATION







Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes x No ¨

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files). Yes x No ¨

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer”, “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.




CTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

PART I - FINANCIAL INFORMATION

Item 1. Financial Statements

CTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS - UNAUDITED



See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.

CTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME ‑ UNAUDITED



 See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.

CTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



CTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS ‑ UNAUDITED



See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.

CTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Condensed Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity - Unaudited




See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.

CTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Condensed Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity - Unaudited (continued)




See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.

NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - UNAUDITED



NOTE 1—Basis of Presentation

The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared by CTS Corporation (“CTS” "we", "our", "us" or the "Company”), without audit, pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles have been omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations. The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements, notes thereto, and other information included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the year ended December 31, 2018.

The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements reflect, in the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring items) necessary for a fair statement, in all material respects, of the financial position and results of operations for the periods presented. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported period. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. The results of operations for the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of the results for the entire year.

Changes in Accounting Principles

Beginning in January 2019, CTS adopted the provisions of Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2016-02, "Leases (Topic 842)" under the optional transition method, which requires, if necessary, a cumulative effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings. The lease liability is based on the present value of minimum lease payments discounted using our secured incremental borrowing rate at the date of adoption. Existing deferred rent liabilities, resulting from our historical practice of using the straight line method for recognizing lease expense, were reclassified upon adoption to reduce the measurement of the lease assets. We elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance, which among other things, allows us to carry forward the historical accounting relating to lease identification and classification for existing leases at adoption. Our leases are classified as operating leases and expense is recorded in a manner similar to historical accounting guidance. We have also elected the practical expedient to not separate lease and non-lease components for the majority of our leases and the election to keep leases with an initial term of 12 months or less off of the balance sheet. Upon adoption we recorded a lease liability of $24,792 and a right of use asset of $22,066. No adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings was required.

Subsequent Events

We have evaluated subsequent events and transactions for potential recognition or disclosure in the financial statements through the date the condensed consolidated financial statements are issued.

NOTE 2 – Revenue Recognition


•Identify the contract(s) with a customer

•Identify the performance obligations

•Determine the transaction price

•Allocate the transaction price

•Recognize revenue when the performance obligations are met

We recognize revenue when the performance obligations specified in our contracts have been satisfied, after considering the impact of variable consideration and other factors that may affect the transaction price. Our contracts normally contain a single performance obligation that is fulfilled on the date of delivery based on shipping terms stipulated in the contract. We usually expect payment within 30 to 90 days from the shipping date, depending on our terms with the customer. None of our contracts as of June 30, 2019, contained a significant financing component. Differences between the amount of revenue recognized and the amount invoiced, collected from, or paid to our customers are recognized as contract assets or liabilities. Contract assets will be reviewed for impairment when events or circumstances indicate that they may not be recoverable. 

To the extent the transaction price includes variable consideration, we estimate the amount of variable consideration that should be included in the transaction price utilizing the most likely amount method based on an analysis of historical experience and current facts and circumstances, which requires significant judgment. Variable consideration is included in the transaction price if, in our judgment, it is probable that a significant future reversal of cumulative revenue under the contract will not occur. 

Contract Assets and Liabilities



During the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, we recognized revenues of $37 and $106, respectively, for amounts that were included in contract liabilities at the beginning of the period. 

Disaggregated Revenue



NOTE 3 – Accounts Receivable 



NOTE 4 – Inventories 



NOTE 5 – Property, Plant and Equipment



NOTE 6 – Retirement Plans

Pension Plans







 (1) Expected return on plan assets is net of expected investment expenses and certain administrative expenses.

Other Post-retirement Benefit Plan



NOTE 7 – Other Intangible Assets






NOTE 8 – Costs Associated with Exit and Restructuring Activities

Costs associated with exit and restructuring activities are recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Earnings as a separate component of Operating earnings. 




In June 2016, we announced plans to restructure operations by phasing out production at our Elkhart facility and transitioning it into a research and development center supporting our global operations ("June 2016 Plan"). Additional organizational changes were also implemented in various other locations. During the third quarter of 2017, we revised the June 2016 Plan. The amendment added an additional $1,100 in planned costs related to the relocation of our corporate headquarters in Lisle, IL and our plant in Bolingbrook, IL, both of which have now been consolidated into a single facility. The total restructuring liability related to severance and other one-time benefit arrangements under the June 2016 Plan was $501 at June 30, 2019, and $668 at December 31, 2018. Additional costs related to production line movements, equipment charges, and other costs will be expensed as incurred. 



In April 2014, we announced plans to restructure our operations and consolidate our Canadian operations into other existing facilities as part of our overall plan to simplify our business model and rationalize our global footprint (“April 2014 Plan”). These restructuring actions were completed in 2015. The remaining restructuring liability related to the April 2014 Plan was $701 at June 30, 2019, and $918 at December 31, 2018. 




NOTE 9 – Accrued Liabilities



NOTE 10 – Commitments and Contingencies

Certain processes in the manufacture of our current and past products create by-products classified as hazardous waste. We have been notified by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, state environmental agencies, and in some cases, groups of potentially responsible parties, that we may be potentially liable for environmental contamination at several sites currently and formerly owned or operated by us. Some sites, such as Asheville, North Carolina and Mountain View, California, are designated National Priorities List sites under the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Superfund program. We accrue a liability for probable remediation activities, claims and proceedings against us with respect to environmental matters if the amount can be reasonably estimated, and provide disclosures including the nature of a loss whenever it is probable or reasonably possible that a potentially material loss may have occurred but cannot be estimated. We record contingent loss accruals on an undiscounted basis. 

In the opinion of management, based upon presently available information relating to such matters, adequate provision for probable and estimable losses have been recorded. Due to the inherent nature of environmental obligations, we cannot provide assurance that our ultimate environmental liability will not materially exceed the amount of our accrued losses. 




Unrelated to the environmental claims described above, certain other claims are pending against us with respect to matters arising in the ordinary conduct of our business. Although the ultimate outcome of any potential litigation resulting from these claims cannot be predicted with certainty, and some may be disposed of unfavorably to us, we believe that adequate provision for probable and estimable costs have been established based upon all presently available information. 

Except as noted herein, we do not believe we have any pending loss contingencies that are probable or reasonably possible of having a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Our accrued liabilities and disclosures will be adjusted accordingly if additional information becomes available in the future.

NOTE 11 - Debt



On February 12, 2019, we entered into an amended and restated five-year Credit Agreement with a group of banks (the "Credit Agreement") to extend the term of the facility. The Credit Agreement provides for a revolving credit facility of $300,000, which may be increased by $150,000 at the request of the Company, subject to the administrative agent's approval. This new unsecured credit facility replaces the prior $300,000 unsecured credit facility, which would have expired August 10, 2020. Borrowings of $50,000 under the prior credit agreement were refinanced into the Credit Agreement. The prior agreement was terminated as of February 12, 2019.

The Revolving Credit Facility includes a swing line sublimit of $15,000 and a letter of credit sublimit of $10,000. Borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility bear interest, at our option, at the base rate plus the applicable margin for base rate loans or London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") plus the applicable margin for LIBOR loans. We also pay a quarterly commitment fee on the unused portion of the Revolving Credit Facility. The commitment fee ranges from 0.20% to 0.30% based on the our total leverage ratio. 


We have debt issuance costs related to our long-term debt that are being amortized using the straight-line method over the life of the debt. Amortization expense was approximately $41 and $46 for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively and approximately $77 and $93 for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. These costs are included in interest expense in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Earnings. 

Note 12 - Derivative Financial Instruments 

Our earnings and cash flows are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. We selectively use derivative financial instruments including foreign currency forward contracts and interest rate swaps to manage our exposure to these risks. 

The use of derivative financial instruments exposes the Company to credit risk, which relates to the risk of nonperformance by a counterparty to the derivative contracts. We manage our credit risk by entering into derivative contracts with only highly rated financial institutions and by using netting agreements. 

The effective portion of derivative gains and losses are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income until the hedged transaction affects earnings upon settlement, at which time they are reclassified to cost of goods sold or net sales. If it is 

probable that an anticipated hedged transaction will not occur by the end of the originally specified time period, we reclassify the gains or losses related to that hedge from accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income to other income (expense). 

We assess hedge effectiveness qualitatively by verifying that the critical terms of the hedging instrument and the forecasted transaction continue to match, and that there have been no adverse developments that have increased the risk that the counterparty will default. No recognition of ineffectiveness was recorded in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Earnings for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019. 

Foreign Currency Hedges

We use forward contracts to mitigate currency risk related to a portion of our forecasted foreign currency revenues and costs. The currency forward contracts are designed as cash flow hedges and are recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value. 

We continue to monitor the Company’s overall currency exposure and may elect to add cash flow hedges in the future. At June 30, 2019, we had a net unrealized gain of $784 in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income, of which $784 is expected to be reclassified to income within the next 12 months. At June 30, 2018 we had a net unrealized gain of $59 in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income. The notional amount of foreign currency forward contracts outstanding was $8,625 at June 30, 2019.

Interest Rate Swaps

We use interest rate swaps to convert our revolving credit facility’s variable rate of interest into a fixed rate. As of June 30, 2019, we have agreements to fix interest rates on $50,000 of long-term debt through August 2020. The difference to be paid or received under the terms of the swap agreements will be recognized as an adjustment to interest expense when settled.

These swaps are treated as cash flow hedges and consequently, the changes in fair value are recorded in other comprehensive (loss) income. The estimated net amount of the existing gains that are reported in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income that are expected to be reclassified into earnings within the next twelve months is approximately $235. 



The Company has elected to net its foreign currency derivative assets and liabilities in the balance sheet in accordance with ASC 210-20 (Balance Sheet, Offsetting). On a gross basis, there were foreign currency derivative assets of $718 and foreign currency derivative liabilities of $0.



NOTE 13 – Accumulated Other Comprehensive (Loss) Income


Unrealized gains (losses) on hedges relate to interest rate swaps to convert our revolving credit facility's variable rate of interest into a fixed rate and foreign currency forward contracts used to hedge our exposure to changes in exchange rates affecting certain revenues and costs denominated in foreign currencies. These hedges are designated as cash flow hedges, and we have deferred income statement recognition of gains and losses until the hedged transactions occur, at which time amounts are reclassified into earnings. Further information related to our derivative financial instruments is included in Note 12 - Derivative Financial Instruments and Note 16 – Fair Value Measurements.

Unrealized gains (losses) on pension obligations are deferred from income statement recognition until the gains or losses are realized. Amounts reclassified to income from AOCI are included in net periodic pension income (expense). Further information related to our pension obligations is included in Note 6 – Retirement Plans.

Cumulative translation adjustments relate to our non-U.S. subsidiary companies that have designated a functional currency other than the U.S. dollar. We are required to translate the subsidiary functional currency financial statements to dollars using a combination of historical, period-end, and average foreign exchange rates. This combination of rates creates the foreign currency translation adjustment component of other comprehensive income. 

Changes in exchange rates between the functional currency and the currency in which a transaction is denominated are foreign exchange transaction gains or losses. Transaction losses for the three months and six months ended June 30, 2019 were $829 and $355, respectively and transaction losses for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 were $2,194 and $918, respectively, which have been included in other income (expense) in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Earnings.









NOTE 14 – Shareholders’ Equity



On February 7, 2019, the Board of Directors authorized a new stock repurchase program with a maximum dollar limit of $25,000 in stock repurchases, which replaced the previous program. During the six months ended June 30, 2019, 179,966 shares of common stock were repurchased for approximately $5,002, of which $567 was repurchased under the previous program and $4,435 was repurchased under the most recent board-authorized share repurchase plan. Approximately $20,565 is available for future purchases.



Certain potentially dilutive restricted stock units are excluded from diluted earning per share because they are anti-dilutive. The number of awards that were anti-dilutive for the six month periods ended June 30, 2019 and June 30, 2018 were 108,894 and 72,658, respectively. There were no outstanding anti-dilutive awards impacting the three month periods ended June 30, 2019 and June 30, 2018.

NOTE 15 - Stock-Based Compensation






We recognize expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period for each separately vesting portion of the award as if the award was, in substance, multiple awards.



Performance-Based Stock Options

During 2015 and 2016, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the “Committee”) granted a total of 350,000 performance-based stock option awards (“Performance-Based Option Awards”) for certain employees under the 2014 Plan, of which 250,000 remain outstanding after considering forfeitures. The Performance-Based Option Awards have an exercise price of $18.37, a term of five years, and generally will become exercisable (provided the optionee remains employed by the Company or an affiliate) upon our attainment of at least $600,000 in revenues during any of our trailing four quarterly periods (as determined by the Committee) during the term. We have not recognized any expense on these Performance-Based Option Awards for the six-month periods ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, since the revenue target was not deemed likely to be attained based on our current forecast.

Service-Based Restricted Stock Units



Performance and Market-Based Restricted Stock Units



The following table summarizes each grant of performance awards outstanding at June 30, 2019. 


Cash-Settled Restricted Stock Units

Cash-Settled RSUs entitle the holder to receive the cash equivalent of one share of common stock for each unit when the unit vests. These RSUs are issued to key employees residing in foreign locations as direct compensation. Generally, these RSUs vest over a three-year period. Cash-Settled RSUs are classified as liabilities and are remeasured at each reporting date until settled. At June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018 we had 17,468 and 17,248 cash-settled RSUs outstanding, respectively. At June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, liabilities of $211 and $300, respectively were included in Accrued liabilities on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.

NOTE 16 — Fair Value Measurements

We use interest rate swaps to convert our Revolving Credit Facility’s variable rate of interest into a fixed rate and foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the effect of foreign currency changes on certain revenues and costs denominated in foreign currencies. These derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value on a recurring basis. 





The fair value of our interest rate swaps and foreign currency hedges were measured using standard valuation models using market-based observable inputs over the contractual terms, including forward yield curves, among others. There is a readily determinable market for these derivative instruments, but that market is not active and therefore they are classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.



Our long-term debt consists of the Revolving Credit Facility which is recorded at its carrying value. There is a readily determinable market for our long-term debt and it is classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy as the market is not deemed to be active. The fair value of long-term debt approximates carrying value and was determined by valuing a similar hypothetical coupon bond and attributing that value to our long-term debt under the Revolving Credit Facility.

NOTE 17 — Income Taxes



Our effective income tax rate was 25.1% and 37.7% in the second quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively. This decrease was primarily attributed to the 2018 withholding tax payment of $1,703 on a one-time distribution from Taiwan. The tax rate in the second quarter of 2019 was higher than the U.S. statutory federal tax rate primarily due to state taxes and foreign earnings that are taxed at higher rates. The tax rate in the second quarter of 2018 was higher than the U.S. statutory federal tax rate primarily due to foreign withholding taxes, state taxes and foreign earnings that are taxed at higher rates. 

Our effective income tax rate was 22.7% and 30.2% for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. This decrease was primarily attributed to the 2018 withholding tax payment of $1,703 on a one-time distribution from Taiwan. The tax rate in the second quarter of 2019 was higher than the U.S. statutory federal tax rate primarily due to higher foreign tax rates applicable on foreign earnings offset by tax benefits recorded upon vesting of restricted stock units. The tax rate in the second quarter of 2018 was higher than the U.S. statutory federal tax rate primarily due to foreign withholding taxes, state taxes and higher foreign tax rates applicable on foreign earnings. 

We have elected to recognize the tax on the global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI) as a period expense in the period the tax is incurred, and we have included a provisional estimate for GILTI in our estimated annual effective tax rate.

NOTE 18 — Leases

We lease certain land, buildings and equipment under non-cancelable operating leases used in our operations. Operating lease assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term. Operating lease liabilities represent the present value of lease payments over the lease term, discounted using an estimate of our secured incremental borrowing rate because none of our leases contain a rate implicit in the lease arrangement. 

The operating lease assets and liabilities are adjusted to include the impact of any lease incentives and non-lease components. We have elected not to separate lease and non-lease components, which include taxes and common area maintenance in some of our leases. Variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate are included in lease payments using the prevailing index or rate in effect at lease commencement. 

Options to extend or terminate a lease are included in the lease term when it is reasonably likely that we will exercise that option. We have elected not to record leases with an initial term of 12 months or less on the balance sheet and instead recognize those lease payments on a straight-line basis over the lease term.

We determine if an arrangement is a lease or contains a lease at its inception, which normally does not require significant estimates or judgments. Our lease agreements do not contain any material residual value guarantees or material restrictive covenants and we currently have no material sublease agreements.







NOTE 19 — Recent Accounting Pronouncements

ASU 2018-14 "Compensation - Retirement Benefits - Defined Benefit Plans - General"

In August 2018, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2018-14, "Compensation - Retirement Benefits - Defined Benefit Plans - General." This ASU modifies the disclosure requirements for defined benefit and other postretirement plans. This ASU eliminates certain disclosures associated with accumulated other comprehensive income, plan assets, related parties, and the effects of interest rate basis point changes on assumed health care costs; while other disclosures have been added to address significant gains and losses related to changes in benefit obligations. This ASU also clarifies disclosure requirements for projected benefit and accumulated benefit obligations. The amendments in this ASU are effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2020 and for interim periods therein with early adoption permitted. Adoption on a retrospective basis for all periods presented is required. This ASU will impact our financial statement disclosures but will not have an impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.



ASU 2016-16 "Income Taxes (Topic 740) Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory"

In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-16, "Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory". This ASU is meant to improve the accounting for the income tax effect of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory. Currently, U.S. GAAP prohibits the recognition of current and deferred income taxes for intra-entity asset transfers until the asset is sold to a third party. This ASU will now require companies to recognize the income tax effect of an intra-entity asset transfer (other than inventory) when the transaction occurs. This ASU is effective for public companies, for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019 and interim periods within those annual reporting periods. Early adoption is permitted and is to be applied on a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption. This guidance is not expected to have a material impact on our financial statements.


In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments, which amends the current accounting guidance and requires the measurement of all expected losses based on historical experience, current conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts. For trade receivables, loans, and other financial instruments, we will be required to use a forward-looking expected loss model rather than the incurred loss model for recognizing credit losses which reflects losses that are probable. The standard will become effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted. Application of the amendments is through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the effective date. We plan to adopt this standard on the effective date and are currently evaluating the impact of this new standard on our financial statements.

Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”)


The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and notes included under Item 1, as well as our Consolidated Financial Statements and notes and related Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.

Overview





Sales were $120,684 in the second quarter of 2019, an increase of $2,663 or 2.3% from the second quarter of 2018. Sales to transportation markets increased $6,437 or 8.7%. Sales to other markets declined $3,774 or 8.6%. Changes in foreign exchange rates decreased sales by $1,861 year-over-year due to the U.S. Dollar appreciating compared to the Chinese Renminbi and Euro and relating mostly to sales of products to the transportation end market.

Gross margin as a percent of sales was 34.1% in the second quarter of 2019 compared to 35.4% in the second quarter of 2018. Execution challenges in our ceramic foundry operation as well as material cost and wage increases were the main drivers for the decline. These were partially offset by savings related to the manufacturing transition from Elkhart, Indiana and other cost improvements.


Research and development expenses were $6,257 or 5.2% of sales in the second quarter of 2019 compared to $6,476 or 5.5% of sales in the comparable quarter of 2018. Research and development expenses are focused on expanded applications of existing products and new product development, as well as current product and process enhancements.

Restructuring charges were $911 or 0.8% of sales in the second quarter of 2019. The charges were mainly for building and equipment relocation, severance, and travel costs related to the restructuring of certain operations as part of the 2016 Restructuring Plan. Restructuring charges were $1,172 or 1.0% of sales in the second quarter of 2018.

Operating earnings were $17,083 or 14.2% of sales in the second quarter of 2019 compared to operating earnings of $14,544 or 12.3% of sales in the second quarter of 2018.



Interest expense decreased mainly as a result of the reduction in debt year-over-year and a reduction in interest related to interest rate swaps. Other expense in the second quarter of 2019 was principally driven by foreign currency translation losses, mainly due to the appreciation of the U.S. Dollar compared to the Chinese Renminbi during the quarter, as well as pension expense.


Our effective income tax rate was 25.1% and 37.7% in the second quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate for the three months ended June 30, 2019, compared with the same period in 2018, was primarily attributed to the 2018 withholding tax payment of $1,703 on a one-time distribution from Taiwan. 



Sales were $238,308 in the six months ended June 30, 2019, an increase of $6,757 or 2.9% from the six months ended June 30, 2018. Sales to transportation markets increased $10,973 or 7.4%. Sales to other markets declined $4,216 or 5.1%. Changes in foreign exchange rates decreased sales by $3,632 year-over-year due to the U.S. Dollar appreciating compared to the Chinese Renminbi and Euro and relating mostly to sales of products to the transportation end market.

Gross margin as a percent of sales was 34.3% in the six months ended June 30, 2019 compared to 34.7% for the six months ended June 30, 2018. Execution challenges in our ceramic foundry operation as well as material cost and wage increases were the main drivers for the decline. These were partially offset by savings related to the manufacturing transition from Elkhart, Indiana and other cost improvements.


Research and development expenses were $13,048 or 5.5% of sales in the six months ended June 30, 2019 compared to $12,983 or 5.6% of sales in the six months ended June 30, 2018. Research and development expenses are focused on expanded applications of existing products and new product development, as well as current product and process enhancements.

Restructuring charges were $2,995 or 1.3% of sales in the six months ended June 30, 2019. The charges were mainly for building and equipment relocation, severance, and travel costs related to the restructuring of certain operations as part of the 2016 Restructuring Plan. Restructuring charges were $2,367 or 1.0% of sales in the six months ended June 30, 2018.

Operating earnings were $31,300 or 13.1% of sales in the six months ended June 30, 2019 compared to operating earnings of $27,903 or 12.1% of sales in the six months ended June 30, 2018.



Interest expense decreased mainly as a result of the reduction in debt year-over-year and a reduction in interest related to interest rate swaps. Other expense in the six months ended June 30, 2019 was principally driven by foreign currency translation losses, mainly due to the appreciation of the U.S. Dollar compared to the Chinese Renminbi during the first six months of the year, as well as pension expense.


Our effective income tax rate was 22.7% and 30.2% in the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate for the six months ended June 30, 2019, compared with the same period in 2018, was primarily attributed to the 2018 withholding tax payment of $1,703 on a one-time distribution from Taiwan.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Cash and cash equivalents were $105,578 at June 30, 2019, and $100,933 at December 31, 2018, of which $95,093 and $96,762, respectively, were held outside the United States. The increase in cash and cash equivalents of $4,645 was primarily driven by cash generated from operating activities of $24,184, which was partially offset by capital expenditures of $9,430, treasury stock purchases of $5,002, taxes paid on behalf of equity award participants of $2,637, and dividends paid of $2,625. Total long-term debt was $50,000 as of June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018. Total debt as a percentage of total capitalization, defined as long-term debt as a percentage of total debt and shareholders' equity, was 11.2% at June 30, 2019, compared to 11.7% at December 31, 2018.

Working capital increased by $18,738 during the six months ended June 30, 2019, primarily due to the increase in cash and accounts receivable and the decrease of accrued payroll and benefits and accrued liabilities.

Cash Flows from Operating Activities

Net cash provided by operating activities was $24,184 during the first six months of 2019. Components of net cash provided by operating activities included net earnings of $23,362, depreciation and amortization expense of $11,919, other net non-cash items of $6,090, and a net cash outflow from changes in assets and liabilities of $17,187.

Cash Flows from Investing Activities

Net cash used in investing activities for the first six months of 2019 was $9,308, driven almost entirely by capital expenditures.

Cash Flows from Financing Activities

Net cash used in financing activities for the first six months of 2019 was $10,264. These cash outflows were the result of treasury stock purchases of $5,002, taxes paid on behalf of equity award participants in the amount of $2,637, and dividend payments of $2,625.

Capital Resources



On February 12, 2019, we entered into an amended and restated five-year Credit Agreement with a group of banks (the "Credit Agreement") to extend the term of the facility. The Credit Agreement provides for a revolving credit facility of $300,000, which may be increased by $150,000 at the request of the Company, subject to the administrative agent's approval. This new unsecured credit facility replaces the prior $300,000 unsecured credit facility, which would have expired August 10, 2020. Borrowings of $50,000 under the prior credit agreement were refinanced into the Credit Agreement. The prior agreement was terminated as of February 12, 2019.

The Revolving Credit Facility requires, among other things, that CTS comply with a maximum total leverage ratio and a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio. Failure to comply with these covenants could reduce the borrowing availability under the Revolving Credit Facility. We were in compliance with all debt covenants at June 30, 2019. 

In the third quarter of 2016, we entered into three forward-starting interest rate swap agreements to fix interest rates on $50,000 of long-term debt for the periods August 2017 to August 2020. The difference to be paid or received under the terms of the swap agreements will be recognized as an adjustment to interest expense when settled.

We have historically funded our capital and operating needs primarily through cash flows from operating activities, supported by available credit under our Revolving Credit Facility. We believe that cash flows from operating activities and available borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility will be adequate to fund our working capital needs, capital expenditures, and debt service requirements for at least the next twelve months. However, we may choose to pursue additional equity and debt financing to provide additional liquidity or to fund acquisitions.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

Management prepared the consolidated financial statements of CTS under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These principles require the use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments, and assumptions we used are reasonable, based upon the information available.

Our estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts in our financial statements. The following accounting policies comprise those that we believe are the most critical in understanding and evaluating our reported financial results.

Revenue Recognition


•Identify the contract(s) with a customer

•Identify the performance obligations

•Determine the transaction price

•Allocate the transaction price

•Recognize revenue when the performance obligations are met

Our contracts normally contain a single performance obligation that is fulfilled on the date of delivery based on shipping terms stipulated in the contract. We recognize revenue when (or as) the performance obligation has been satisfied after considering the impact of variable consideration and other factors that may affect the transaction price. Differences between the amount of revenue 

recognized and the amount invoiced, collected from, or paid to our customers are recognized as contract assets or liabilities. Contract assets will be reviewed for impairment when events or circumstances indicate that they may not be recoverable. 

Product Warranties

Provisions for estimated warranty expenses primarily related to our automotive products are made at the time products are sold. These estimates are established using a quoted industry rate. We adjust our warranty reserve for any known or anticipated warranty claims as new information becomes available. We evaluate our warranty obligations at least quarterly and adjust our accruals if it is probable that future costs will be different than our current reserve. Over the last three years, product warranty reserves have ranged from 0.5% to 2.4% of total sales. We believe our reserve level is appropriate considering all facts and circumstances surrounding any outstanding quality claims and our historical experience selling our products to our customers.

Accounts Receivable


•Credit reviews of all new customer accounts,

•Ongoing credit evaluations of current customers,

•Credit limits and payment terms based on available credit information,

•Adjustments to credit limits based upon payment history and the customer's current credit worthiness,

•An active collection effort by regional credit functions, reporting directly to the corporate financial officers, and;

•Limited credit insurance on the majority of our international receivables.

We reserve for estimated credit losses based on historical experience and specific customer collection issues. Over the last three years, accounts receivable reserves have been approximately 0.1% to 0.7% of total accounts receivable. We believe our reserve level is appropriate considering the quality of the portfolio. While credit losses have historically been within expectations and the reserves established, we cannot guarantee that our credit loss experience will continue to be consistent with historical experience.

Inventories

We value our inventories at the lower of the actual cost to purchase or manufacture using the first-in, first-out ("FIFO") method, or net realizable value. We review inventory quantities on hand and record a provision for excess and obsolete inventory based on forecasts of product demand and production requirements.

Over the last three years, our reserves for excess and obsolete inventories have ranged from 10.6% to 18.4% of gross inventory. We believe our reserve level is appropriate considering the quantities and quality of the inventories.

Retirement Plans

Actuarial assumptions are used in determining pension income and expense and our pension benefit obligation. We utilize actuaries from consulting companies in each applicable country to develop our discount rates that match high-quality bonds currently available and expected to be available during the period to maturity of the pension benefit in order to provide the necessary future cash flows to pay the accumulated benefits when due. After considering the recommendations of our actuaries, we have assumed a discount rate, expected rate of return on plan assets and a rate of compensation increase in determining our annual pension income and expense and the projected benefit obligation. During the fourth quarter of each year, we review our actuarial assumptions in light of current economic factors to determine if the assumptions need to be adjusted. Changes in the actuarial assumptions could have a material effect on our results of operations.

Valuation of Goodwill


•Significant decline in market capitalization relative to net book value,

•Significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate,

•Adverse action or assessment by a regulator,

•Unanticipated competition,

•More-likely-than-not expectation that a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit will be sold or otherwise disposed of,

•Testing for recoverability of a significant asset group within a reporting unit, and

•Allocation of a portion of goodwill to a business to be disposed.

If we believe that one or more of the above indicators of impairment have occurred, we perform an impairment test. We have the option to perform a qualitative assessment (commonly referred to as "step zero" test) to determine whether further quantitative analysis for impairment of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets is necessary. The qualitative assessment includes a review of macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, internal cost factors, and our own overall financial and share price performance, among other factors. If, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances we determine that it is not more-likely-than-not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, we do not need to perform a quantitative analysis. 

If a quantitative assessment is required, we estimate the fair value of each reporting unit using a combination of discounted cash flow analysis and market-based valuation methodologies. Determining fair value using a quantitative approach requires significant judgment, including judgments about projected revenues, operating expenses, working capital investment, capital expenditures, and cash flows over a multi-year period. The discount rate applied to our forecasts of future cash flows is based on our estimated weighted average cost of capital. In assessing the reasonableness of our determined fair values, we evaluate our results against our market capitalization. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value and impact the goodwill impairment assessment.

Our latest assessment was performed using a qualitative approach as of October 1, 2018, and we determined that it was likely that the fair values of our reporting units were more than their carrying amounts, and therefore no impairment charges were recorded. We will monitor future results and will perform a test if indicators trigger an impairment review.

Impairment of Other Intangible and Long-Lived Assets


•Significant decline in market capitalization relative to net book value,

•Significant underperformance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results,

•Significant changes in the manner of use of the acquired assets or the strategy for the overall business,

•Significant negative industry or economic trends.

If we believe that one or more indicators of impairment have occurred, we perform a recoverability test by comparing the carrying amount of an asset or asset group to the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and the eventual disposition of the asset or asset group. If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair value. During the six months ended June 30, 2019 quarter we recognized impairment charges of $892 related to the June 2016 Restructuring Plan. No other indicators of impairment were identified during the quarter ended June 30, 2019. 

Income Taxes

Our income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities, and liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits reflect management’s best estimate of current and future taxes to be paid. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgments and estimates are required in the determination of consolidated income tax expense.

Deferred income taxes arise from temporary differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the financial statements, which will result in taxable or deductible amounts in the future. In evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets in the jurisdiction from which they arise, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax-planning strategies, and results of recent operations. The assumptions about future taxable income require the use of significant judgment and are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage our underlying businesses.

The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws and regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) No. 740 states that a tax benefit from an uncertain tax position may be recognized when it is more-likely-than-not that the position will be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, on the basis of its technical merits. We record 

unrecognized tax benefits as liabilities in accordance with ASC 740 and adjust these liabilities when our judgment changes as a result of the evaluation of new information not previously available. Because of the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the unrecognized tax benefit liabilities. These differences will be reflected as increases or decreases to income tax expense in the period in which new information is available.

Our practice is to recognize interest and penalties related to income tax matters as part of income tax expense.

Generally, outside of Canada and the United Kingdom, it has been our historical practice to permanently reinvest the earnings of our non-U.S. subsidiaries in those operations. However, the 2017 Tax Cut and Jobs Act made significant changes to the taxation of undistributed foreign earnings, requiring that all previously untaxed earnings and profits of our controlled foreign corporation be subjected to a one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax. This transition tax substantially eliminated the basis difference that existed prior to the Tax Act. However, there are limited other taxes that continue to apply such as foreign withholding and certain state taxes. We completed an evaluation of our indefinite reinvestment assertion as a result of the Tax Cut and Jobs Act during the fourth quarter of 2018 and decided not to reinvest the current year earnings of our primary operations, except for in the Czech Republic, Denmark, India, Mexico and Taiwan. We intend to continue to indefinitely reinvest the earnings in these non-U.S. subsidiaries.

Significant Customers



Forward‑Looking Statements


Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

There have been no material changes in our market risk since December 31, 2018.

Item 4. Controls and Procedures

Pursuant to Rule 13a-15(e) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, management, under the direction of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated our disclosure controls and procedures. Based on such evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of June 30, 2019.

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

Beginning January 1, 2019, we adopted ASC 842 "Leases". It is expected to have an immaterial impact on our ongoing net income; however, we implemented changes to our processes related to lease recognition and related internal controls. These changes included the development of new procedures related to the determination of lease classification, ongoing contract review requirements, and gathering of information to comply with disclosure requirements. 

PART II - OTHER INFORMATION

Item 1.  Legal Proceedings

From time to time we are involved in litigation with respect to matters arising from the ordinary conduct of our business, and currently certain claims are pending against us. In the opinion of management, based upon presently available information, either adequate provision for anticipated costs have been accrued or the ultimate anticipated costs will not materially affect our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.

Item 1A.  Risk Factors

There have been no significant changes to our risk factors since December 31, 2018.

Item 2.  Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds

On February 7, 2019 the Board of Directors authorized a new stock repurchase program with a maximum dollar limit of $25 million. This program authorizes us to make repurchases of our common stock from time to time on the open market, but does not obligate us to make repurchases, and has no expiration date. 


Item 6. Exhibits 


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


