Document   

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION




For the quarterly period ended March 31, 2019 

OR


Commission file number 1-10079 

Cypress Semiconductor Corporation



198 Champion Court, San Jose, California 95134






Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer," "smaller reporting company" and "emerging growth company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.




The total number of outstanding shares of the registrant’s common stock as of April 20, 2019 was 365,289,260.

INDEX 



PART I—FINANCIAL INFORMATION

Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements

This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (this "Quarterly Report") contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements are not historical facts and include statements relating to, among other things, the future results, operations, strategies, and prospects of Cypress Semiconductor Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries ("Cypress," the "Company," "we," or "us"), and can in some cases be identified by our use of words such as "may," "will," "should," "plan," "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "future," "intend," "estimate," "predict," "potential," "continue," and similar expressions. This Quarterly Report includes, among others, forward-looking statements regarding: our expectations regarding dividends, debt repayments, and stock repurchases; our expectations regarding restructuring plan costs and effects; our expectations regarding active litigation matters; the sufficiency of our cash, cash equivalents, and borrowing arrangements to meet our requirements for the next 12 months; possible recognition of certain unrecognized tax benefits within the next 12 months; and the potential impact of our indemnification obligations. Our forward-looking statements are based on the expectations, beliefs and intentions of, and the information available to, our executive management on the filing date of this Quarterly Report. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Except as required by law, we assume no responsibility to update our forward-looking statements.

The forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report involve risks and uncertainties. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: potential disruptions in the international trade and investment environment, including deteriorating relationships between the U.S. government and foreign governments; the current and future state of the general economy and its impact on the markets and consumers we serve (including credit conditions); our ability to execute on our Cypress 3.0 strategy and our margin improvement plan; potential volatility in our stock price; risks related to paying down our indebtedness and meeting the covenants set forth in our debt agreements; our efforts to retain and expand our customer base (which may be adversely affected if we were to raise prices) in the intensely competitive and rapidly evolving semiconductor industry; risks related to significant supply and demand volatility in semiconductor markets (including the challenges of forecasting demand, scheduling production, and making timely delivery on customer orders); risks related to our strategy of developing and maintaining a leading portfolio of programmable microcontroller, connectivity and memory products; risks related to our flexible manufacturing strategy (and the challenge of efficiently managing a smaller number of manufacturing facilities while increasing our reliance on third-party manufacturers); our reliance on distributors and resellers; risks related to our "take or pay" agreements with certain vendors; the risk of defects, errors, or security vulnerabilities in our products; risks related to the integrity of our information systems, including the possibility of cyber-attacks, business-activity disruption, and loss or corruption of sensitive data; changes in tax law and policy; risks related to our pending tax examinations; risks related to our tax incentive/holiday arrangements in Malaysia, the Philippines, and Thailand; potential lack of liquidity for certain strategic investments (including the challenge of disposing of businesses, product lines, or assets on favorable terms in a timely manner); risks related to our joint venture for NAND flash memory products; risks related to our restructuring activities; the failure or success of the privately-held companies in which we are invested; the challenges of effectively integrating companies and assets that we acquire; the possibility of impairment charges; the challenges of attracting and retaining key personnel; risks related to our reliance on stock-based compensation; possible changes to our dividend policy; risks related to our share repurchase authorization; the uncertain nature of business outlook guidance; risks related to industry consolidation and the challenge of competing effectively against a smaller number of stronger companies; the challenges of adequately protecting our intellectual property rights and risks of intellectual property litigation; the possibilities that activist stockholders could negatively affect our business and that our deferred tax assets could be negatively impacted by changes in our stockholder base; risks associated with international operations; the challenges and costs of complying with environmental, data privacy, health/safety, and other laws; risks related to "conflict minerals" reporting; the possibility of business disruptions due to natural disasters; risks arising from indemnification commitments to our officers and directors; our ability to manage our financial investments and interest rate and exchange rate exposure; and the uncertainty and expense of pending litigation matters. These and other factors are described in more detail in Part I, Item 1A (Risk Factors) of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2018 (our "Annual Report"), which item is incorporated herein by reference; Part I, Item 3 (Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk) in this Quarterly Report; and/or Part II, Item 1A (Risk Factors) in this Quarterly Report.


ITEM 1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

CYPRESS SEMICONDUCTOR CORPORATION

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.


CYPRESS SEMICONDUCTOR CORPORATION

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.


CYPRESS SEMICONDUCTOR CORPORATION

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.


CYPRESS SEMICONDUCTOR CORPORATION

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY




CYPRESS SEMICONDUCTOR CORPORATION

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.


CYPRESS SEMICONDUCTOR CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Fiscal Years

Cypress Semiconductor Corporation (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, "Cypress" or the "Company") reports on a fiscal-year basis. The Company ends its quarters on the Sunday closest to the end of the applicable calendar quarter, except in a 53-week fiscal year, in which case the additional week falls into the fourth quarter of that fiscal year. Fiscal years 2019 and 2018 each contain(ed) 52 weeks. The first quarter of fiscal 2019 ended on March 31, 2019 and the first quarter of fiscal 2018 ended on April 1, 2018.

Basis of Presentation

The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") and include the accounts of Cypress Semiconductor Corporation and its subsidiaries. All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.

In the opinion of management, the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments of a normal, recurring nature, which are necessary to state fairly the financial information included therein. These financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included in Cypress' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2018. The year-end condensed balance sheet data was derived from audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by GAAP.

Results reported in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations for the three months ended March 31, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full fiscal year.

Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Leases

The Company applies the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 842 to individual leases of assets. When the Company receives substantially all of the economic benefits from and directs the use of specified property, plant and equipment, transactions give rise to leases.

The Company’s classes of assets include real estate leases, equipment leases, and vehicles leases.

Operating leases are included in operating lease right-of-use ("ROU") assets, other current liabilities, and operating lease liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets. ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease. Finance leases are included in property and equipment, current portion of long-term debt, revolving credit facility and long-term portion of debt in our consolidated balance sheets. 

The Company has elected the practical expedient within ASC Topic 842 to not separate lease and non-lease components within lease transactions for all classes of assets. Additionally, the Company has elected the short-term lease exception for all classes of assets, does not apply the recognition requirements for leases of 12 months or less, and recognizes lease payments for short-term leases as expense either straight-line over the lease term or as incurred depending on whether the lease payments are fixed or variable. These elections are applied consistently for all leases.

The Company subleases certain portions of buildings and land subject to operating leases. The terms and conditions of the subleases are commensurate with the terms and conditions within the original operating leases. The term of the subleases range from one to eight years, payments are fixed within the contracts, and there are no residual value guarantees or other restrictions or covenants in the leases. 

When discount rates implicit in leases cannot be readily determined, the Company uses the applicable incremental borrowing rate at lease commencement to perform lease classification tests on lease components and to measure lease liabilities and ROU assets. The incremental borrowing rate used by the Company was based on baseline rates and adjusted by the credit spreads 


commensurate with the Company’s secured borrowing rate, over a similar term. At each reporting period when there is a new lease initiated, the rates established for that quarter will be used. 

Other significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2018.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted



Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements

In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, "Leases (ASC Topic 842)". The standard introduces new requirements to increase transparency and comparability among organizations for leasing transactions for both lessees and lessors. ASU No. 2016-02 requires a lessee to record a right-of-use asset and a lease liability for all leases with terms longer than 12 months. These leases will be either finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition. 

In July 2018, the Board issued ASU 2018-11, which provided an alternative modified retrospective transition method. Under this method, the cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings is recognized on the date of adoption (December 31, 2018). The Company adopted ASC Topic 842, as of December 31, 2018 and applied the alternative modified retrospective transition method requiring application of the new guidance to all leases existing at, or entered into on or after, the date of adoption, i.e. December 31, 2018.


•whether any expired or existing contracts are or contain leases

•the lease classification for any expired or existing leases

•treatment of initial direct costs relating to any existing leases 

As a result of adoption of this standard, and election of the transition practical expedients, the Company recognized ROU assets and lease liabilities for those leases classified as operating leases under ASC Topic 840 that continued to be classified as operating leases under ASC Topic 842 at the date of initial application. Leases classified as a capital lease under ASC 840 are classified as ‘Finance lease’ under this new standard. 



















NOTE 3. BALANCE SHEET COMPONENTS

Accounts Receivable, Net 



Inventories


Other Current Assets


Other Long-term Assets



Other Current Liabilities


Other Long-term Liabilities


NOTE 4. INTANGIBLE ASSETS








NOTE 5. ASSETS HELD FOR SALE

Sale of NAND business

On April 1, 2019, the Company closed the transfer of its NAND business to a newly-formed joint venture between the Company and SK hynix system ic ("SKHS"). The joint venture entity will be called SkyHigh Memory Limited ("SkyHigh") and its headquarter will be in Hong Kong, China. SkyHigh will be 60-percent-owned by SKHS and 40-percent-owned by Cypress. The Company paid $2.4 million in cash as its capital contribution in SkyHigh upon close of the transaction. Additionally, Cypress will provide certain transition and back-end manufacturing services to SkyHigh. 

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company allocated $65.7 million of goodwill previously recorded in the MPD segment to the NAND business being divested. The allocation was based on the relative estimated enterprise value of the NAND business and that of the MPD business. The intangible assets attributable to the NAND business acquired as part of a previous acquisition were $10.9 million. Based on an analysis carried out in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $76.6 million which related to the goodwill and intangible assets allocated to the NAND business and classified as held-for-sale. During the first quarter of the fiscal 2019, the Company recognized an incremental loss of $3.5 million related to adjustments in the carrying value of certain assets and estimated costs of certain transition services.

As of March 31, 2019 and December 30, 2018 inventories related to the NAND business in the amount of $10.8 million and $13.5 million, respectively, were classified as held-for-sale assets as SkyHigh has agreed to purchase such inventories. SkyHigh will pay cash consideration for these inventories to the Company of a fixed amount and a contingent amount to be determined based on the profit on sales of such inventories generated by SkyHigh, if any. 

NOTE 6. EQUITY METHOD INVESTMENTS

Privately-held equity investments in entities the Company does not control are accounted for under the equity method of accounting if the Company has an ownership interest of 20% or greater or if it has the ability to exercise significant influence over the operations of such companies. 

Deca Technologies Inc. ("Deca")

Deca continues to be in the process of developing and testing a fan-out wafer level packaging technology. Deca’s estimated enterprise value is sensitive to its ability to achieve key product development and testing milestones. Additional delays or failure by Deca to complete these milestones - similar to those previously experienced by Deca in fiscal 2018 - may have a significant adverse impact on Deca’s estimated enterprise value. In addition, Deca’s current and future revenues are dependent on a small number of significant customers. The loss of, material delay in placing orders by, or significant decrease in demand from any of its key customers would have a material adverse effect on Deca’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Deca may need to secure additional funding to support its growth and cash needs. Failure to secure such funding, if needed, will impact its ability to continue as a going concern.

Deca management is currently working with its significant customers to secure their long-term commitment to use Deca’s technology given the current downturn in the semiconductor industry and is in the process of evaluating certain alternative strategic options.

During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company determined that its investment in Deca was other-than temporarily impaired and recognized a charge of $41.5 million in order to write down the carrying amount of the investment in Deca to the estimated fair value as of the end of fiscal 2018. Given the factors described above, there continues to be a substantial risk that the carrying value of our investment in Deca may become impaired in the future. If Deca is unable to (a) secure sufficient orders from its existing significant customers or other new customers, (b) raise sufficient funding, if needed, for continuing its operations, (c) consummate a strategic transaction that allows realization of its economic value, Cypress will be required to partially or fully impair the carrying value of its investment in Deca. The Company’s carrying value in Deca was $61.6 million and $65.1 million as of March 31, 2019 and December 30, 2018, respectively.

The Company held 52.5% of Deca's outstanding voting shares as of March 31, 2019 and December 30, 2018. The Company's investment in Deca is accounted for as an equity method investment. 

The below table presents the changes in carrying value of the equity method investment related to Deca.



The following table presents summarized aggregate financial information derived from the respective consolidated financial statements of Deca for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and April 1, 2018, respectively.


The following table represents the assets and liabilities held by Deca as of March 31, 2019 and December 30, 2018.


NOTE 7. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS





The Company did not have any material assets or liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis using Level 3 inputs as of March 31, 2019 and December 30, 2018. 


There have been no changes to the valuation techniques used to measure the fair value of the Company's assets and liabilities. For a description of the valuation techniques, refer to Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2018.

Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis

Certain of the Company’s assets, including intangible assets, goodwill and assets held for sale, are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis using Level 3 inputs if impairment is indicated. 

Fair Value of Long-Term Debt

As of March 31, 2019, the carrying value of the Company's senior secured credit facility was $442.5 million (See Note 10). The carrying value of the Company's senior secured credit facility approximates its fair value since it bears an interest rate that is comparable to rates on similar credit facilities and is determined using Level 2 inputs.

The Company's 2% 2020 Spansion Exchangeable Notes assumed as part of the Company's merger with Spansion Inc. ("Spansion") are traded in the secondary market for debt instruments and are categorized as Level 2 inputs. The principal and the estimated fair value of the principal of these notes as of March 31, 2019 were $12.0 million and $37.6 million, respectively. See Note 10 for further details.

The Company’s 4.5% 2022 Senior Exchangeable Notes are traded in the secondary market for debt instruments and the fair value is determined using Level 2 inputs. The principal and the estimated fair value of the principal of these notes as of March 31, 2019 were $287.5 million and $363.3 million, respectively. See Note 10 for further details.

The Company's 2% 2023 Exchangeable Notes are traded in the secondary market and the fair value is determined using Level 2 inputs. The principal and the estimated fair value of the principal of these notes as of March 31, 2019 were $150.0 million and $152.7 million, respectively. See Note 10 for further details.





In fiscal 2018, the Company began implementation of a reduction in workforce (the "2018 Plan") which resulted in the elimination of approximately 130 positions across various functions. The Company anticipates that the remaining restructuring accrual balance of $0.1 million will be paid out in cash through the second quarter of fiscal 2019. 


In December 2017, the Company began implementation of a reduction in workforce (the "2017 Plan") which resulted in the elimination of approximately 80 positions worldwide across various functions. The restructuring accrual has been fully settled in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.

Spansion Integration-Related Restructuring Plan ("Spansion Integration Plan")

In March 2015, the Company began implementation of cost reduction and restructuring activities in connection with its merger with Spansion. The restructuring charge of $90.1 million recorded for the fiscal year ended January 3, 2016 primarily consists of severance costs, lease termination costs and impairment of property, plant and equipment.

As part of this restructuring plan, the Company exited an office space leased by Spansion and recorded a reserve related to excess lease obligation for the building. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company signed a termination agreement with the building’s owner. The lease termination cost was approximately $19.0 million. The Company paid $4.7 million during the fiscal 2018 and paid the remaining $14.3 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2019.

Summary of Restructuring Costs





Roll-Forward of the Restructuring Reserves




NOTE 9. EMPLOYEE STOCK PLANS AND STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION



As of March 31, 2019 and December 30, 2018, stock-based compensation capitalized in inventory totaled $2.6 million and $2.5 million, respectively.






Equity Incentive Program

As of March 31, 2019, approximately 29.8 million stock options, or 16.0 million RSUs and PSUs, were available for grant as stock-based awards under the 2013 Stock Plan, the 2010 Equity Incentive Award Plan and the 2012 Incentive Award Plan. As of March 31, 2019, there were 7.9 million shares of stock available for issuance under the ESPP plan.

Stock Options



No options were granted during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and April 1, 2018.

RSUs and PSUs



2019 Long-Term Incentive Program

During the first quarter of 2019, the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors approved the issuance of service-based and performance-based restricted stock units under the Company's Long-Term Incentive Program ("LTIP") to certain employees. The performance goals for the performance-based 2019 LTIP grants relate to non-GAAP operating margin and achievement of our customer experience plan milestones for fiscal 2019 and include a multiplier based on our total stockholder return relative to an index.

Dividend

On February 19, 2019, the Company's Board of Directors approved a cash dividend of $0.11 per share payable to holders of record of its common stock at the close of the business day on March 28, 2019. This cash dividend was paid on April 18, 2019 and totaled $40.1 million which was accrued for and shown as "Dividends payable" on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as of March 31, 2019.





As of March 31, 2019, the Company was in compliance with all of the financial covenants under all of its debt facilities.


On March 18, 2019, the Company repaid $25.0 million of the outstanding Term Loan B principal in addition to the scheduled quarterly principal payment of $1.3 million.

Interest expense related to the contractual interest expense, the amortization of the debt issuance costs and the amortization of debt discounts was $6.9 million and $11.3 million during the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2019 and April 1, 2018, respectively.

As of March 31, 2019 and December 30, 2018, $450.0 million and $476.3 million aggregate principal amount of loans, which is related to Term Loan B, is outstanding under the Credit Facility, respectively.

2% 2020 Spansion Exchangeable Notes

Pursuant to the merger with Spansion, Cypress assumed Spansion's 2% 2020 Spansion Exchangeable Notes (the "Spansion Notes"). The Spansion Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by the Company. The Spansion Notes will mature on September 1, 2020, unless earlier repurchased or converted, and bear interest of 2% per year payable semi-annually in arrears on March 1 and September 1. The Spansion Notes may be due and payable immediately upon certain events of default.






 4.5% 2022 Exchangeable Notes

On June 23, 2016, the Company issued, at face value, $287.5 million of Senior Exchangeable Notes due in 2022 (the "2022 Notes") in a private placement to qualified institutional buyers under Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. 





Capped Calls

In connection with the issuance of the 2022 Notes, the Company entered into capped call transactions with certain bank counterparties to reduce the risk of potential dilution of the Company’s common stock upon the exchange of the 2022 Notes. The capped call transactions have an initial strike price of approximately $13.49 and an initial cap price of approximately $15.27, in each case, subject to adjustment. The capped calls expire in January 2022.

2% 2023 Exchangeable Notes

On November 6, 2017, the Company, issued at face value, $150.0 million of Senior Exchangeable Notes due in 2023 (the "2023 Notes") in a private placement to qualified institutional buyers under Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. 






Future Debt Payments





The Company has operating and finance leases for corporate offices, research and development facilities, and certain equipment. The Company's leases have remaining lease terms of 1 year to 8 years, some of which include options to extend the leases for up to 5 years, and some of which include options to terminate the leases within the lease terms.













NOTE 12. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

Product Warranties


The Company generally warrants its products against defects in materials and workmanship for a period of one year, and that product warranty is generally limited to a refund of the original purchase price of the product or a replacement part. The Company estimates its warranty costs based upon its historical warranty claim experience. Warranty returns are recorded as an allowance for sales returns. The allowance for sales returns is reviewed quarterly to verify that it reflects the remaining obligations based on the anticipated returns over the balance of the obligation period.



Contractual Obligations

The Company has entered into agreements with certain vendors that include "take or pay" terms. Take or pay terms obligate the Company to purchase a minimum required amount of materials or services or make specified payments in lieu of such purchase. The Company may not be able to consume minimum commitments under these take or pay terms, requiring payments to vendors, which may have a material adverse impact on the Company’s earnings.

Litigation and Asserted Claims

The Company is currently involved in various legal proceedings, claims, and disputes arising in the ordinary course of business, including intellectual property claims and other matters. 

For many legal matters, particularly those in early stages, the Company cannot reasonably estimate the possible loss (or range of loss), if any. The Company records an accrual for legal matters at the time or times it determines that a loss is both probable and reasonably estimable. Amounts accrued as of March 31, 2019 were not material. Regarding matters for which no accrual has been made (including the potential for losses in excess of amounts accrued), the Company currently believes, based on its own investigations, that any losses (or ranges of losses) that are reasonably possible and estimable will not, in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. However, the ultimate outcome of legal proceedings involves judgments, estimates, and inherent uncertainties and cannot be predicted with certainty. Should the ultimate outcome of any legal matter be unfavorable, the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. The Company may also incur substantial legal fees, which are expensed as incurred, in defending against legal claims.

Indemnification Obligations


It is not possible to predict the maximum potential amount of future payments under these agreements due to the conditional nature of the Company's obligations and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Historically, payments the Company has made under these agreements have not had a material effect on the Company’s business, financial 


condition or results of operations. As of March 31, 2019, management believes that if the Company were to incur a loss (in excess of amounts already recognized) in any of these matters, such loss would not have a material effect on its business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations, though there can be no assurance in this regard. 

NOTE 13. FOREIGN CURRENCY AND INTEREST RATE DERIVATIVES

The Company enters into multiple foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge certain foreign currency risk resulting from fluctuations in Japanese yen (¥) and Euro (€) exchange rates. In addition, the Company entered into fixed-for-interest rate forward swap agreements and has designated these swaps as hedging instruments. The Company does not enter into derivative securities for speculative purposes. The Company’s hedging policy is designed to mitigate the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on its operating results. Some foreign currency forward contracts are considered to be economic hedges that were not designated as hedging instruments while others were designated as cash flow hedges. Whether designated or undesignated as cash flow hedges or not, these forward contracts protect the Company against the variability of forecasted foreign currency cash flows resulting from revenues, expenses and net asset or liability positions designated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The maximum original duration of any contract allowable under the Company’s hedging policy is thirteen months for foreign currency hedging contracts.

Cash Flow Hedges

The Company enters into cash flow hedges to protect non-functional currency inventory purchases and certain other operational expenses, in addition to its ongoing program of cash flow hedges to protect its non-functional currency revenues against variability in cash flows due to foreign currency fluctuations. The Company’s foreign currency forward contracts that were designated as cash flow hedges generally have maturities between three and thirteen months. All hedging relationships are formally documented, and the hedges are designed to offset changes to future cash flows on hedged transactions at the inception of the hedge. The Company recognizes derivative instruments from hedging activities as either assets or liabilities on the balance sheet and measures them at fair value on a monthly basis. The Company records changes in the intrinsic value of its cash flow hedges in accumulated other comprehensive income on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, until the forecasted transaction occurs. Prior to the second quarter of 2018, interest charges or "forward points" on the forward contracts are excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness and were recorded in interest and other income, net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. In the second quarter of 2018, the Company entered into cash flow hedges, in which interest charges or "forward points" on the forward contracts are included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness, and are recorded in the underlying hedged items in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. When the forecasted transaction occurs, the Company reclassifies the related gain or loss on the cash flow hedge to revenue or costs, depending on the risk hedged. In the event the underlying forecasted transaction does not occur, or it becomes probable that it will not occur, the Company will reclassify the gain or loss on the related cash flow hedge from accumulated other comprehensive income to interest and other income, net in its Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations at that time. For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and April 1, 2018, the Company had a loss of $0.8 million and a gain of $0.9 million, which was related to cash flow hedges, recorded in other comprehensive income, respectively.

The Company evaluates hedge effectiveness at the inception of the hedge prospectively as well as retrospectively and records any ineffective portion of the hedge in other income, net in its Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.

Designated Hedges



Non-designated hedges



In December 2017, the Company entered into fixed-for-floating interest rate forward swap agreements starting April 2018 with two counterparties to swap future variable interest payments on certain debt for fixed interest payments; these agreements will 


expire in July 2021. The objective of the swaps was to effectively fix the interest rate at current levels without having to refinance the outstanding term loan, thereby avoiding the incurrence of transaction costs. The interest rate on the variable debt was fixed in December 2017 and became effective in April 2018.

On January 3, 2018, the Company evaluated the hedge effectiveness of the interest rate swaps and designated these swaps as hedging instruments. Upon designation as cash flow hedge instruments, future changes in fair value of these swaps are recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). 

In October 2018, the Company entered into fixed-for-floating interest rate forward swap agreements starting in July 2021 with two counterparties to swap future variable interest payments on existing debt for fixed interest payments; these agreements will expire in December 2024. The objective of the swaps was to effectively fix the future interest rate at the level currently available to avoid the uncertainty in financing cost for a portion of debt due to future interest rate fluctuations. The aggregate notional amount of these interest rate swaps was $300 million. The Company has evaluated the hedge effectiveness of the interest rate swaps and has designated these swaps as cash flow hedges of the debt with future changes in fair value of these swaps to be recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).

For the three months ended March 31, 2019, the Company has recognized a loss in other comprehensive income of $7.1 million for these interest rate swaps. 






NOTE 14. NET INCOME PER SHARE



For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and April 1, 2018, approximately 4.3 million and 2.5 million weighted average potentially dilutive shares underlying outstanding stock-based awards and convertible debt, respectively, were excluded in the computation of diluted net loss per share because their effect would have been anti-dilutive. 

NOTE 15. INCOME TAXES


A valuation allowance is established or maintained when, based on currently available information and other factors, it is more likely than not that all or a portion of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. We regularly assess our valuation allowance against deferred tax assets on a jurisdiction by jurisdiction basis. We consider all available positive and negative evidence, including future reversals of temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies and recent financial results. During the fourth quarter of 2018, the Company emerged from a cumulative loss position over the previous three years. The cumulative three-year pre-tax income is considered positive evidence which is objective and verifiable and thus received significant weighting. The continued pattern of income before tax, recent global restructuring executed in fiscal 2018 and projected future operating income in the U.S. was additional positive evidence. As a result, the Company released $343.3 


million of the valuation allowance attributable to certain U.S. deferred tax assets during 2018. Based on management’s assessment of the realizability of deferred tax assets, there was no change to the previously recorded valuation allowances during the quarter ending March 31, 2019.

Unrecognized Tax Benefits

Gross unrecognized tax benefits were $121.7 million and $121.9 million as of March 31, 2019 and December 30, 2018, respectively. As of March 31, 2019, and December 30, 2018, the amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would affect the Company's effective tax rate totaled $66.3 million and $65.8 million, respectively.


•completion of examinations by the U.S. or foreign taxing authorities; and

•expiration of statutes of limitations on the Company's tax returns.

The calculation of unrecognized tax benefits involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex global tax regulations. Management regularly assesses the Company’s tax positions in light of legislative, bilateral tax treaty, regulatory and judicial developments in the countries in which the Company does business. Given the uncertainty in the development of ongoing tax examinations and tax correspondence with taxing authorities, it is possible that the Company’s balance of gross unrecognized tax benefits could materially change in the next 12 months. As a result, we are unable to estimate the full range of possible adjustments to this balance. 

Classification of Interest and Penalties

The Company's policy is to classify interest expense and penalties, if any, as components of the income tax provision in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. As of March 31, 2019 and December 30, 2018, the amounts of accrued interest and penalties totaled $13.6 million and $13.0 million, respectively.

NOTE 16. SEGMENT, GEOGRAPHICAL AND CUSTOMER INFORMATION

Segment Information

The Company designs, develops, manufactures and markets a broad range of solutions for embedded systems, from automotive, industrial, consumer electronics, and medical products. 

Operating segments are identified as components of an enterprise for which separate discrete financial information is available for evaluation by the chief operating decision-maker ("CODM"), or decision-making group, in making decisions on how to allocate resources and assess performance. The CODM is considered to be the Chief Executive Officer. 

The Company's segments are its MCD (Microcontroller and Connectivity Division) and MPD (Memory Products Division). 

Income Before Income Taxes



The Company does not allocate stock-based compensation, changes in value of deferred compensation plan, restructuring charges, amortization of intangible assets and certain other expenses to its segments. 

Geographical Information



The Company tracks its assets by physical location. Although management reviews asset information on a corporate level and allocates depreciation expense by segment, the Company’s CODM does not review asset information on a segment basis.

Customer Information

Outstanding accounts receivable from two of the Company's distributors accounted for 24.2% and 11.1% of its consolidated accounts receivable as of March 31, 2019. Outstanding accounts receivable from one of the Company's distributors accounted for 25.0% of its consolidated accounts receivable as of December 30, 2018.

Revenue from sales to two of the Company's distributors accounted for 16.9% and 15.4% of its consolidated revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2019. No other distributors or customers accounted for 10% or more of the Company's consolidated revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2019.

Revenue from sales to two of the Company’s distributors accounted for 19.4% and 13.5% of its consolidated revenues for the three months ended April 1, 2018. No other distributors or customers accounted for 10% or more of the Company's consolidated revenues for the three months ended April 1, 2018.

NOTE 17. ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)



NOTE 18. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

In the ordinary course of business, the Company purchases from, or sells to (a) entities for which one of the Company's directors or executive officers serves as a director or (b) entities that are otherwise affiliated with one of the Company's directors or executive officers (collectively, "related parties").




As of March 31, 2019, and April 1, 2018, amounts due from these parties totaled $0.4 million and $0.5 million, respectively, and amounts due to these parties totaled $1.0 million and $8.9 million, respectively.


ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A") in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that involve risks and uncertainties, which are discussed in the "Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" section in Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.

Overview

Cypress manufactures and sells advanced embedded system solutions for automotive, industrial, consumer and enterprise end markets. Cypress' microcontrollers, analog ICs, wireless and wired connectivity solutions and memories help engineers design differentiated products and help with speed to market. Cypress is committed to providing customers with quality support and engineering resources. 

Business Segments


Business Segments Description

Microcontroller and Connectivity Division  MCD focuses on connectivity and computing solutions for the Internet of Things and automotive solutions that enhance the in-cabin user experience. MCD offerings include robust wireless and wired connectivity solutions that combine with flexible, high-performance microcontroller ("MCU") and analog solutions, backed with a focus on superior design software. The portfolio includes Wi-Fi® and Bluetooth® and Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE), and Wi-Fi plus Bluetooth combo solutions; Traveo™ automotive MCUs, PSoC® programmable MCUs and general-purpose MCUs; CapSense® capacitive-sensing controllers and automotive TrueTouch® touchscreen solutions; a broad line of USB controllers, including solutions for the USB-C and USB Power Delivery standards; and analog PMIC Power Management ICs. This division also includes our intellectual property ("IP") business.

Memory Products Division  MPD focuses on fail-safe storage and datalogging solutions for mission critical applications. The portfolio includes specialized, high-performance parallel and serial NOR flash memories, static random access memories ("SRAM"), F-RAM™ ferroelectric memory devices, nonvolatile SRAMs ("nvSRAM"), and other specialty memories. This division also includes our nonvolatile DIMM subsidiary AgigA Tech, Inc.

Business Strategy

Refer to Part I Item 1. Business in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2018 for a discussion of our strategies.

As we continue to implement our strategies, there are many internal and external factors that could impact our ability to meet any or all of our objectives. Some of these factors are discussed in Part I Item 1A in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2018 as well as in Part II Item 1A in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.

Results of Operations

Revenues

Our total revenues decreased by $43.2 million, or 7.4%, to $539.0 million for the three-month period ended March 31, 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year. The decrease was primarily due to demand softening across broad markets.





Revenues recorded by MCD decreased by $26.3 million, or 7.8%, in the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the same prior year period. The decrease was primarily due to the stage of a major end customer's product life-cycle in wireless connectivity and a decline in demand for memory products. 


Revenues recorded by MPD decreased by $16.9 million, or 6.9%, in the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the same prior year period. The decrease was primarily due to a decline in demand for NAND Flash products. 



Our gross margin improved to 37.6% in the three months ended March 31, 2019 from 36.5% in the three months ended April 1, 2018. The primary drivers of the improvement in gross margin were a shift in the product mix towards higher density memory products and a decrease in commoditized products, higher fab utilization, which increased from 74% in the three months ended April 1, 2018 to 83% in the three months ended March 31, 2019, and a reduction in the cost of certain products. This improvement was partially offset by a decrease in the sale of inventory that was previously written off or written down for the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to the same prior year period. The gross margin in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and 2018 was benefited by 0.7% and 1.6%, respectively, from the sale of previously reserved inventory. Included in cost of revenues are amortization of intangible assets of $46.9 million and $48.1 million for the first quarters of fiscal years 2019 and 2018, respectively.








Income Taxes


Equity Method Investments

For the three months ended March 31, 2019, our share in Deca's net loss was $3.6 million. By comparison, for the corresponding period of 2018 our share in the net loss of Deca was $3.5 million. Deca continues to be in the process of developing and testing a fan-out wafer level packaging technology. Deca’s estimated enterprise value is sensitive to its ability to achieve these product development and testing milestones. Delays or failure by Deca to complete these milestones, or secure funding needed to support its growth and cash needs, may have a significant adverse impact on Deca’s estimated enterprise value and may result in our recognition of a material impairment in the carrying value of our investment in Deca. We held 52.5% of Deca's outstanding voting shares as of March 31, 2019 and December 30, 2018.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Our Revolving Credit Facility has a capacity of $540 million which was undrawn as of March 31, 2019.



Key Components of Cash Flows


Operating Activities



•depreciation and amortization of $71.4 million; 

•stock-based compensation expense of $20.4 million;

•accretion of interest expense on Senior Exchangeable Notes and amortization of debt and financing costs on other debt of $4.8 million; 

•our share in the net loss of an equity method investee of $3.6 million;

•loss related to assets held for sale of $3.5 million; and

•restructuring costs and other adjustments of $0.7 million.


•a increase of $48.6 million in operating lease right-of-use assets;

•a decrease in accounts payable and accrued and other liabilities of $30.4 million mainly due to timing of payments to vendors;

•a decrease of $21.9 million in price adjustments and other revenue reserves for sales to distributors due to an increase in revenue during the first three months of 2019;


•a decrease in other current and long-term assets of $3.5 million for prepayments for licenses and other vendors; and

•a decrease in assets held for sale due to the changes in inventories of $2.7 million.

Investing Activities


•property and equipment expenditures of $10.5 million relating to purchases of certain manufacturing facility equipment; 

•partially offset by $ 6.1 million in net distributions for the deferred compensation plan.

Financing Activities


•dividend payments of $39.7 million;

•payments of $26.3 million on Term Loan B; 

•payments of $5.4 million on net shares settlement of restricted stock units; and

•payments of $0.4 million on finance lease liabilities;

•partially offset by proceeds of $14.3 million from employee equity awards. 


Liquidity and Contractual Obligations

Contractual Obligations





Capital Resources and Financial Condition

As of March 31, 2019, our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investment balance was $285.1 million as compared to $285.7 million as of December 30, 2018. As of March 31, 2019, approximately 12.4% of our cash and cash equivalents were held by our non-U.S. subsidiaries. While these amounts are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars, a portion is denominated in foreign currencies. All non-U.S. cash balances are exposed to local political, banking, currency control, and other risks. In addition, these amounts, if repatriated, may be subject to tax and other transfer restrictions. 



Critical Policies and Estimates

The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and the data used to prepare them. Our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and we are required to make estimates, judgments and assumptions in the course of such preparation. Note 1 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements under Part I, Item 1 describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. On an ongoing basis, we re-evaluate our judgments and estimates including those related to revenue recognition, allowances for doubtful accounts receivable, inventory valuation, valuation of long-lived assets, goodwill and financial instruments, stock-based compensation, settlement costs, and income taxes. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience, knowledge of current conditions and our beliefs of what could occur in the future considering available information. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.


•Revenue Recognition

•Business Combinations

•Valuation of Inventories

•Valuation of Long-Lived Assets

•Valuation of Goodwill

•Investments in Equity Interests

•Cash Flow Hedges

•Share-Based Compensation

•Employee Benefit Plans

•Accounting for Income Taxes

As discussed in Note 1, we adopted ASC Topic 842 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. There have been no other changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates since the filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2018.

ITEM 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Interest Rate Risks

Our investment portfolio consists of a variety of financial instruments that expose us to interest rate risk, including, but not limited to, money market funds, and certificates of deposit. Due to the relatively short-term nature of our investment portfolio, we do not believe that an immediate increase in interest rates would have a material effect on the fair market value of our portfolio.

Our debt obligations consist of a variety of financial instruments that expose us to interest rate risk, including, but not limited to our revolving credit facility, term loans and exchangeable notes. Interest on the exchangeable notes is fixed and interest on our term loans is at variable rates. The interest rate on the term loans is tied to short-term interest rate benchmarks including the prime rate and the London inter-bank offered rate, or LIBOR.

A one hundred basis point change in the contractual interest rates would change our interest expense for the Revolving Credit Facility and Term Loan B by approximately $1.5 million annually.

Our long-term operating results and cash flows may be materially affected to a significant degree by a sudden change in market interest rates.


Foreign Currency Exchange Risk

We operate and sell products in various global markets and purchase capital equipment using foreign currencies but predominantly the U.S. dollar. We are exposed to certain risks associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates in the Japanese yen, the Euro and other foreign currencies.


•sales of our products to Japanese distributors are denominated in U.S. dollars, Japanese yen and Euros;

•some of our manufacturing costs and operating expenses are denominated in Japanese yen, and other foreign currencies such as the Thai Baht, Philippine Peso and Malaysian Ringgit; and

•some fixed asset purchases and sales are denominated in other foreign currencies.

Consequently, movements in exchange rates could cause our revenues and our expenses to fluctuate, affecting our profitability and cash flows. We use foreign currency forward contracts to reduce our foreign exchange exposure on our foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities. We also hedge a percentage of our forecasted revenue denominated in Japanese yen with foreign currency forward contracts. The objective of these contracts is to mitigate the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements to our operating results on a short-term basis. We do not use these contracts for speculative or trading purposes.

To provide an assessment of the foreign currency exchange risk associated with our foreign currency exposures within our operations, we performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the impact that an adverse change in exchange rates would have on our financial statements. If the U.S. dollar weakened by 10%, our operating margin could be unfavorably impacted by approximately 2%. We expect our hedges of foreign currency exposures to be highly effective and offset a significant portion of the short-term impact of changes in exchange rates on the hedged portion of our exposures. Please see Note 13 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for details on the hedge contracts.

ITEM 4. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures 

We maintain "disclosure controls and procedures," as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. In designing and evaluating our disclosure controls and procedures, management recognized that disclosure controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the disclosure controls and procedures are met. Additionally, in designing disclosure controls and procedures, our management necessarily was required to apply its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible disclosure controls and procedures. The design of any disclosure controls and procedures also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions.

Based on their evaluation as of the end of the period covered by this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and subject to the foregoing, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at a reasonable assurance level. 


PART II-OTHER INFORMATION

ITEM 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

The information required by this item is included in Note 11 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I Item 1, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS


Our joint venture for NAND flash memory products might not be successful. 

On April 1, 2019, we launched a joint venture in Hong Kong with SK hynix system ic Inc. ("SKHS"), which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of SK hynix Inc. ("SKH"), a South Korean company. The joint venture entity, SkyHigh Memory Limited ("SkyHigh") is controlled by SKHS. We contributed our NAND flash memory business to the joint venture. NAND is a commoditized product line that has traditionally experienced volatile sales results with low gross margins. Upon launch, SkyHigh entered into a wafer supply agreement with SKH, and back-end manufacturing and transition services agreements with Cypress. 


Our financial results could be adversely impacted if privately-held companies in which we have invested fail to launch new products or maintain key customer relationships.

We have invested in certain privately-held companies. There can be no guarantee that such businesses will perform as initially expected, launch new products and solutions as initially expected, or gain or maintain market acceptance. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, we determined that our investment in Enovix Corporation, which is accounted for as an equity method investment, was other-than temporarily impaired as Enovix did not achieve key planned product development milestones. Consequently, we recognized an impairment charge of $51.2 million related to our investment in Enovix, reducing its carrying value on our books to zero. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, we determined that our investment in another equity investee, Deca Technologies Inc. ("Deca"), was other-than temporarily impaired due to significant delays in Deca's commercialization and achievement of scalable production of certain key products, and consequently we recognized an impairment charge of $41.5 million to write down the carrying value of our investment in Deca to its estimated fair value as of the end of fiscal 2018. 

If any of our other privately-held businesses fail to introduce new products and solutions or successfully develop new technologies, or if their customers do not successfully introduce new systems or products incorporating the products or solutions offered by these businesses, or if market demand for the products or solutions offered by these businesses is not created or sustained, or if these or any of our other privately-held businesses are not able to raise capital to fund their 


operations, then we might fail to realize any benefit from our investments in such privately-held companies and our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially harmed as a result of impairment of the carrying value of such investments.

In particular, there is a substantial risk that the carrying value of our investment in Deca may become further impaired. Deca’s current and future revenues are dependent on a small number of significant customers. The loss of, material delay in placing orders by, or significant decrease in demand from, any of Deca's key customers would have a material adverse effect on Deca’s business, results of operations, and financial condition. Deca may need to secure additional funding to support its growth and cash needs. Failure to secure such funding, if needed, will impact its ability to continue as a going concern. Deca's management is currently working with its significant customers to secure their long-term commitment to use Deca's technology given the current downturn in the semiconductor industry, and is in the process of evaluating certain alternative strategic options. If Deca is unable to (a) secure sufficient orders from its existing significant customers or new customers, (b) raise sufficient funding, if needed, for continuing its operations, or (c) consummate a strategic transaction that allows realization of its economic value, we will be required to record an impairment charge to partially or fully write down the carrying value of our investment in Deca. As of March 31, 2019, the carrying value of our investment in Deca was $61.6 million.

ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS

None.

ITEM 3. DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIES

None.

ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES

Not applicable.

ITEM 5. OTHER INFORMATION

None. 

ITEM 6. EXHIBITS 






SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


