Document   

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION



x QUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the quarterly period ended January 26, 2019

or

o TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934



Daktronics, Inc. 






Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files). Yes x No ¨

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company,” and "emerging growth company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 


If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes ¨ No x

The number of shares of the registrant’s common stock outstanding as of February 18, 2019 was 45,012,524.

DAKTRONICS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES


For the Quarter Ended January 26, 2019
PART I. FINANCIAL INFORMATION

Item 1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS








NOTES TO THE CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



Note 1. Basis of Presentation

Daktronics, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the “Company”, “Daktronics”, “we”, “our”, or “us”) are the world's industry leader in designing and manufacturing electronic scoreboards, programmable display systems and large screen video displays for sporting, commercial and transportation applications.

In the opinion of management, the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring adjustments) necessary to fairly present our financial position, results of operations and cash flows for the periods presented. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP") requires management to make estimates and assumptions affecting the reported amounts therein. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making estimates, actual results in future periods may differ from those estimates.

Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been condensed or omitted. The balance sheet at April 28, 2018, has been derived from the audited financial statements at that date, but it does not include all the information and footnotes required by GAAP for complete financial statements. These financial statements should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and notes thereto for the year ended April 28, 2018, which are contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The results of operations for the interim periods presented are not necessarily indicative of results that may be expected for any other interim period or for the full fiscal year. 

Certain prior year amounts in the condensed consolidated balance sheet have been reclassified to conform to the current year's presentation due to the adoption of Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606). Billings in excess of costs and estimated earnings, customer deposits, and deferred revenue are combined to present contract liabilities. Costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings now represent contract assets. These reclassifications had no effect on reported net income, comprehensive income, cash flows, total assets or total liabilities.

Daktronics, Inc. operates on a 52- or 53-week fiscal year, with our fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to April 30 of each year. When April 30 falls on a Wednesday, the fiscal year ends on the preceding Saturday. Within each fiscal year, each quarter is comprised of 13-week periods following the beginning of each fiscal year. In each 53-week year, an additional week is added to the first quarter, and each of the last three quarters is comprised of a 13-week period. The nine months ended January 26, 2019 and January 27, 2018, contained operating results for 39 weeks.



Recent Accounting Pronouncements

New Accounting Standards Adopted

In October 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU 2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740) Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other than Inventory, which is intended to improve the accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory. Current GAAP prohibits the recognition of current and deferred income taxes for an intra-entity asset transfer until the asset has been sold to an outside party, which is an exception to the principle of comprehensive recognition of current and deferred income taxes in GAAP. This update eliminates the exception by requiring entities to recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory when the transfer occurs. We adopted ASU 2016-16 during the first quarter of fiscal 2019. The adoption of ASU 2016-16 did not have an impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements.

In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606). Subsequently, the FASB also issued ASUs 2016-08, 2016-10, 2016-12, and 2016-20 to give further guidance to revenue recognition matters. ASU 2014-09 and related guidance supersedes revenue recognition requirements under FASB Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 605 and related industry specific revenue recognition guidance. This new standard defines a comprehensive revenue recognition model, requiring a company to recognize revenue from the transfer of goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that the entity expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. It defines a five-step process to achieve this core principle that allows companies to use more judgment and make more estimates than under current guidance. In addition, it requires additional disclosures about the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customer contracts and provides guidance on transition requirements.

We adopted ASU 2014-09 and its related guidance under the modified retrospective method during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 by applying the guidance to all open contracts at the adoption date. We completed an evaluation of our revenue arrangements under the new standard and determined that the adoption did not materially change the timing or amount of revenue recognized, primarily based upon our assessment of "point in time" and "over time" revenue recognition. No adjustment to beginning retained earnings was recorded and we have made additional disclosures related to revenue from contracts with customers as required by the new standard upon adoption. See "Note 4. Revenue Recognition" for more information.

New Accounting Standards Not Yet Adopted


In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-04, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other (Topic 350), which simplifies the subsequent measurement of goodwill by removing the second step of the two-step impairment test. The amendment requires an entity to perform its annual or interim goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. A goodwill impairment will be the amount by which a reporting unit’s carrying value exceeds its fair value, not to exceed the carrying amount of goodwill. ASU 2017-04 is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019 and will require adoption on a prospective basis. We are currently evaluating the effect that adopting ASU 2017-04 will have on our condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.

In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments, which provides guidance regarding the measurement and recognition of credit impairment for certain financial assets. ASU 2016-13 is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted, and will require adoption on a modified retrospective basis. We are currently evaluating the effect that adopting ASU 2016-13 will have on our condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.

In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases for both parties to a contract (that is, lessees and lessors). ASU 2016-02 requires lessees to apply a dual approach, classifying leases as either finance or operating leases based on the principle of whether or not the lease is effectively a financed purchase of the leased asset by the lessee. This classification will determine whether the lease expense is recognized based on an effective interest method or on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. A lessee is also required to record a right-of-use asset and a lease liability for all leases with a term greater than 12 months regardless of their classification. ASU 2016-02 requires lessors to account for leases using an approach that is substantially equivalent to existing guidance for sales-type leases, direct financing leases and operating leases. In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-10, Codification Improvements to Topic 842 (Leases) and ASU 2018-11, Leases (Topic 842), Targeted Improvements, which provide (i) narrow amendments to clarify how to apply certain aspects of the new lease standard, (ii) entities with an additional transition method to adopt the new standard, and (iii) lessors with a practical expedient for separating components of a contract. All ASUs are effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted, and will require adoption on a modified retrospective basis. 

We plan to adopt this new standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2020. We are still reviewing the new standard and recent updates published by FASB. Our preliminary assumptions suggest we will likely adopt certain practical expedients, including the lookback option, and not change historical conclusions related to (1) contracts that contain leases, (2) existing lease classification, and (3) initial direct costs. Based on our current estimates, we expect to recognize right of use assets and lessee lease liabilities of approximately $5,600 with respect to operating leases. We are continuing to evaluate the effect that adopting these ASUs will have on our condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures, but at this time do not think the adoption will have a material impact on our financial statements.

Note 2. Investments in Affiliates

Investments in affiliates over which we have significant influence are accounted for under the equity method of accounting in accordance with the provisions of ASC 323, Investments – Equity Method and Joint Ventures. Investments in affiliates over which we do not have the ability to exert significant influence over the affiliate's operating and financing activities are accounted for under the provisions of ASC 321, Investments – Equity Securities. We have evaluated our relationships with our affiliates and have determined that these entities are not variable interest entities. 

The aggregate amount of investments accounted for under the equity method was $4,108 and $3,647 at January 26, 2019 and April 28, 2018, respectively. The equity method requires us to report our share of losses up to our equity investment amount. Cash paid for investments in affiliates is included in the "Purchases of equity investment" line item in our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows. Our proportional share of the respective affiliates' earnings or losses is included in the "Other (expense) income, net" line item in our condensed consolidated statements of operations. For the nine months ended January 26, 2019 and January 27, 2018, our share of the losses of our affiliates was $392 and $401, respectively.

The aggregate amount of investments without readily determinable fair values was $42 at January 26, 2019 and April 28, 2018, respectively. There have not been any identified events or changes in circumstances that may have a significant adverse effect on their fair value, and it is not practical to estimate their fair value. We record equity investments without readily determinable fair values at cost, less any impairment, adjusted for observable price changes. During the nine months ended January 26, 2019, we did not record any changes in the measurement of such investments.

Note 3. Earnings Per Share ("EPS")

Basic EPS is computed by dividing income attributable to common shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted EPS reflects the potential dilution which may occur if securities or other obligations to issue common stock were exercised or converted into common stock or resulted in the issuance of common stock which share in our earnings.



Options outstanding to purchase 2,308 shares of common stock with a weighted average exercise price of $9.98 for the three months ended January 26, 2019 and 1,203 shares of common stock with a weighted average exercise price of $11.45 for the three months ended January 27, 2018 were not included in the computation of diluted (loss) earnings per share because the effects would be anti-dilutive.

Options outstanding to purchase 2,328 shares of common stock with a weighted average exercise price of $9.98 for the nine months ended January 26, 2019 and 1,281 shares of common stock with a weighted average exercise price of $12.55 for the nine months ended January 27, 2018 were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the effects would be anti-dilutive.

Note 4. Revenue Recognition 



Precontract costs are generally expensed as incurred, unless they are directly associated with an anticipated contract and recoverability from that contract is probable. Precontract costs directly associated with anticipated contracts expected to be recoverable include $478 and $217 as of January 26, 2019 and April 28, 2018, respectively. These are included in the "Inventories" line item in our condensed consolidated balance sheet. 

At contract inception, we identify performance obligations by reviewing the agreement for material distinct goods and services. Goods and services are distinct when the customer can benefit from them on their own and our promises to transfer these items are identifiable from other promises within the contract. When we are contracted to provide a single promise (an integrated system), we often treat it as a single performance obligation as we are providing goods and services with the same pattern of transfer, that are highly integrated or interdependent, that are modified or customized by other goods or services promised, or that provide a combined outcome for which the customer has contracted. When less interdependency or integration is necessary, or the customer can benefit from distinct items, we separate the contract into multiple performance obligations. We account for those warranties that extend beyond typical terms and include other services ("service-type warranty") as a separate performance obligation. 


When separate performance obligations are identified, we allocate the transaction price to the individual performance obligation based on the best evidence and method we judge as faithfully depicting the value of the performance obligation. We allocate revenue to each performance obligation on the relative standalone selling price basis, when the standalone selling price is available. Many of our contracts are bundled and we do not have separate selling prices for each performance obligation, therefore, we primarily use the cost plus a margin approach to allocate the relative transaction price to identified performance obligations as it is the best representative of our pricing methods.

Revenue is recognized when we satisfy a performance obligation. We receive payments from customers based on a billing schedule as established in our contracts. Billing schedules include down payments and progress billings over time, set milestone payments specific to the project, are scheduled for performance-based payments, or are set time-based payment(s). Variability in contract assets and contract liabilities relates to the timing of billings and revenue recognition, which can vary significantly depending on contractual payment terms and build and installation schedules and the related timing differences in transfer of control. Balances are also impacted by the seasonality in our business.

Significant judgments and estimates are used in our revenue policies. Throughout the revenue cycle, we evaluate contractual evidence, monitor our performance, evaluate variable consideration changes, update estimated costs to complete cost-to-cost projects, and obtain evidence of deliveries or other control change evidence for appropriate and consistent revenue recognition. We maintain internal policies and procedures to provide guidance for those involved in recording revenue. We monitor for changes in our business sales practices and customer interactions to capture the appropriate types of performance obligations and adjust for any change in control terms and conditions. 



We account for these types of contracts as a combined single performance obligation with no segmentation between types of products and services. In our judgment, this accounting treatment is most appropriate because the substantial part of our promise to customers is to provide significant integration services and incorporates individual goods and services into a combined output or system. Often times, the system is customized or significantly modified to the customers' desired configurations and location, and the interrelated goods and services provide utility to the customers as a package. 

Revenue for uniquely configured (custom) or integrated systems is recognized over time using the cost incurred input method. Over time revenue recognition is appropriate because we have no alternative use for the uniquely configured system and have an enforceable right to payment for work performed. The cost incurred input method measures cost incurred to date compared to estimated total costs for each contract. This method is the most faithful depiction of our performance because it measures the value of the contract transferred to the customer. Costs to perform include direct and indirect costs for contract design, production, integration, installation, and assurance-type warranty reserve. Direct costs include material and components; manufacturing, project management and engineering labor; and subcontracting expenses. Indirect costs include allocated charges for such items as facilities and equipment depreciation and general overhead. Provisions of estimated losses on uncompleted contracts are made in the period when such losses are capable of being estimated. 

Contract modifications to existing contracts with customers are evaluated in accordance with the five-step revenue model. We treat contract modifications as a separate contract and new performance obligations when the additional goods or services are distinct and do not add to the unique configuration or are outside the integrated system and when the consideration reflects standalone selling prices. If the additional goods or services offered under the modification enhance the uniquely configured or integrated systems, revenue is allocated to the existing contracts' performance obligation. Modifications may cause changes in the timing of revenue recognition depending on the allocation to various performance obligations.

The time between contract order and project completion is typically less than 12 months but may extend longer depending on the amount of custom work and customers’ delivery needs.


Revenue is recognized at a point in time when title or control passes, or over time as services are performed. When fulfilling limited configuration performance obligations, we are typically able to redirect the video displays or scoring, messaging, or audio equipment to another customer without incurring significant economic losses. Therefore, we have alternative use for the performance obligation and recognize revenue upon our substantial completion and at the point in time we estimate control has transferred to the customer. When limited configured single performance obligations are more service-type (i.e., installation and integration services), we recognize revenue over time using the cost-to-cost input method, which is the most faithful depiction of the customer obtaining control and benefits from the work performed.


Software

Revenues from software license fees on sales, other than uniquely configured type contracts, are recognized when delivery of the product has occurred. Subscription-based licenses include the right for a customer to use our licenses and receive related support for a specified term, and revenue is recognized pro-rata over the term of the engagement.

Shipping and handling costs

Shipping and handling costs collected from our customers in connection with our sales are recorded as revenue. We record shipping and handling costs as a component of cost of sales at the time the product is shipped.

Warranty

Our warranty offerings are described in "Note 12. Commitments and Contingencies."

Disaggregation of revenue




See "Note 5. Segment Reporting" for a disaggregation of revenue by geography.

Contract balances

Contract assets represent revenue recognized in excess of amounts billed and include unbilled receivables. Unbilled receivables, which represent an unconditional right to payment subject only to the passage of time, are reclassified to accounts receivable when they are billed under the contract terms. Contract liabilities represent amounts billed to the clients in excess of revenue recognized to date.



The changes in our contract assets and contract liabilities from April 28, 2018 to January 26, 2019 were due to the timing of billing schedules and revenue recognition, which can vary significantly depending on the contractual payment terms and the seasonality of the sports markets. We had no material impairments of contract assets for the year. 

As of January 26, 2019 and April 28, 2018, we had three contracts in progress that were identified as loss contracts and a provision for losses of $1,465 and $87, respectively. These were included in the "Accrued expenses" line item in our condensed consolidated balance sheets.

During the nine months ended January 26, 2019, we recognized revenue of $34,268 related to our contract liabilities as of April 28, 2018.

Remaining performance obligations

As of January 26, 2019, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations was $222,155. We expect approximately $185,993 of our remaining performance obligations to be recognized over the next 12 months with the remainder recognized thereafter. Remaining performance obligations related to product and service agreements are $167,890 and $54,265, respectively. Although remaining performance obligations reflect business that is considered to be legally binding; cancellations, deferrals or scope adjustments may occur. Any known project cancellations, revisions to project scope and cost, foreign currency exchange fluctuations and project deferrals are reflected or excluded in the remaining performance obligation balance as appropriate.

Note 5. Segment Reporting







We have numerous customers worldwide for sales of our products and services, and no customer accounted for 10% or more of net sales; therefore, we are not economically dependent on a limited number of customers for the sale of our products and services. 

We have numerous raw material and component suppliers, and no supplier accounts for 10% or more of our cost of sales; however, we have a number of single-source suppliers that could limit our supply or cause delays in obtaining raw material and components needed in manufacturing.

Note 6. Marketable Securities

We have a cash management program which provides for the investment of cash balances not used in current operations. We classify our investments in marketable securities as available-for-sale in accordance with the provisions of ASC 320, Investments – Debt and Equity Securities. Marketable securities classified as available-for-sale are reported at fair value with unrealized gains or losses, net of tax, reported in accumulated other comprehensive loss on the condensed consolidated balance sheets. As it relates to fixed income marketable securities, it is not likely we will be required to sell any of these investments before recovery of the entire amortized cost basis. In addition, as of January 26, 2019, we anticipate we will recover the entire amortized cost basis of such fixed income securities, and we have determined no other-than-temporary impairments associated with credit losses were required to be recognized. The cost of securities sold is based on the specific identification method. Where quoted market prices are not available, we use the market price of similar types of securities traded in the market to estimate fair value. 



Realized gains or losses on investments are recorded in our condensed consolidated statements of operations as "Other (expense) income, net." Upon the sale of a security classified as available-for-sale, the security’s specific unrealized gain (loss) is reclassified out of 

accumulated other comprehensive loss into earnings based on the specific identification method. In the nine months ended January 26, 2019 and January 27, 2018, the reclassifications from accumulated other comprehensive loss to net earnings were immaterial. 



Note 7. Business Combinations

AJT Systems, Inc. Acquisition

We acquired the net assets of AJT Systems, Inc. ("AJT"), a Florida-based company, on June 21, 2018. The results of its operations have been included in our condensed consolidated financial statements since the date of acquisition. We have not made pro forma disclosures because the results of its operations are not material to our condensed consolidated financial statements.

AJT is a developer of real-time live to air graphics rendering and video server systems for the broadcast TV industry. This acquisition will allow our organization to grow and strengthen our solution offerings to the market. This acquisition was primarily funded with cash on hand.

Note 8. Sale of Non-Digital Division Assets

In September 2017, we sold our non-digital division assets, primarily consisting of inventory, non-digital manufacturing equipment, patented and unpatented technology and know-how, customer lists, and backlog, net of warranty obligations and accounts payable with a net book value of $517. We recorded a gain of $1,267 on the disposal, which is included in cost of sales in the International business unit during the second quarter of fiscal 2018. No gain was recorded in the three or nine months ended January 26, 2019. 




We perform an analysis of goodwill on an annual basis, and it is tested for impairment more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that an asset might be impaired. We perform our annual analysis during our third quarter of each fiscal year, based on the goodwill amount as of the first business day of our third fiscal quarter. 

In conducting our impairment testing, we compare the fair value of each of our business units to the related carrying value of the allocated assets. We utilize the income approach based on discounted projected cash flows to estimate the fair value of each unit. The projected cash flows use many estimates including market conditions, expected market demand and our ability to grow or maintain market share, gross profit, and expected expenditures for capital and operating expenses. Assets shared or not directly attributed to a reportable segment's activities are allocated to the reportable segment based on sales and other measures. 

We performed our annual impairment test on October 29, 2018 and concluded no goodwill impairment existed.

Note 10. Selected Financial Statement Data






Accounts receivable are reported net of an allowance for doubtful accounts of $2,387 and $2,151 at January 26, 2019 and April 28, 2018, respectively. Included in accounts receivable as of January 26, 2019 and April 28, 2018 was $928 and $964, respectively, of retainage on construction-type contracts, all of which is expected to be collected within one year.

In connection with certain sales transactions, we have entered into sales contracts with installment payments exceeding 12 months and sales-type leases. The present value of these contracts and leases are recorded as a receivable as the revenue is recognized in accordance with GAAP, and profit is recognized to the extent the present value is in excess of cost. We generally retain a security interest in the equipment or in the cash flow generated by the equipment until the contract is paid. The present value of long-term contracts and lease receivables, including accrued interest and current maturities, was $3,245 and $3,393 as of January 26, 2019 and April 28, 2018, respectively. Contract and lease receivables bearing annual interest rates of 4.8 to 9.0 percent are due in varying annual installments through August 2024. The face amount of long-term receivables was $3,440 as of January 26, 2019 and $3,733 as of April 28, 2018.

Note 12. Commitments and Contingencies


As of April 28, 2018, we recorded a liability and related other receivable of $1,904 for a net claim from a customer against work performed by one of our subcontractors during installation which damaged our customer's property. The amount recorded was for probable and reasonably estimated cost to remediate the damage. During the third quarter of fiscal 2019, this claim settled and was fully covered by insurance. 

As of January 26, 2019 and April 28, 2018, a customer was withholding $2,224 of payment claiming we did not perform to the customer's specifications. We believe we have performed to the agreed-upon written specifications, have strong contractual documentation to support our position, and customer with wherewithal to pay. We believe that we will ultimately prevail in collections. Although our assessment of the loss is remote, a number of factors could change the outcome.

For other unresolved legal proceedings or claims, we do not believe there is a reasonable probability that any material loss would be incurred. Accordingly, no material accrual or disclosure of a potential range of loss has been made related to these matters. We do not expect the ultimate liability of these unresolved legal proceedings or claims to have a material effect on our financial position, liquidity or capital resources.


We disclosed a warranty issue in Note 18 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 28, 2018 regarding a mechanical device failure within a module for displays. During the nine months ended January 26, 2019 and January 27, 2018, we recognized warranty expense and estimated equipment service agreement losses for probable and reasonably estimated costs to remediate this issue of $1,610 and $4,034, respectively. As of January 26, 2019, we had $828 remaining accrued for equipment service agreement obligations for the estimate of probable future claims related to this issue. Our contractual warranty arrangements have expired for products with this issue and we do not expect material changes to the equipment service agreement accrual.









Note 13. Income Taxes

We calculate the provision for income taxes during interim reporting periods by applying an estimate of the annual effective tax rate for the full fiscal year to “ordinary” income or loss (pre-tax income or loss excluding unusual or infrequently occurring discrete items) for the reporting period. Due to various factors and operating in multiple state and foreign jurisdictions, our effective tax rate is subject to fluctuation. We recorded an effective tax rate of 55.4 percent and (71.8) percent for the three and nine months ended January 26, 2019, respectively, and an effective tax rate of (67.0) percent and 47.2 percent for the three and nine months ended January 27, 2018, respectively. The changes in the effective tax rates are due to tax credits proportionate to pre-tax book income, the release of $2,775 in unrecognized tax benefits related to a lapse of statute, the release of $480 for a valuation allowance reversal related to foreign net operating loss carryforwards, and a decrease in the federal statutory tax rate from 30.4 percent to 21 percent pursuant to the Tax Act as compared to the same prior year periods, which included a re-measurement of deferred taxes resulting in a $3,679 impact to tax expense due to the lowering of the tax rate under the Tax Act. The Tax Act reduced the federal normal statutory rate from 35 percent to 21 percent; however, since we are a fiscal year tax filer, a blended rate of 30.4 percent was used for fiscal year 2018.

Pursuant to the Tax Act, the SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, Income Tax Accounting Implications of the Tax Act (SAB 118), which allows us to record provisional amounts during a measurement period not to extend beyond one year from the enactment date of December 22, 2017. As of January 26, 2019, the accounting for the remeasurement of U.S. deferred tax assets and deemed repatriation tax was finalized, resulting in additional tax expense of $12 and $5, respectively. We have also elected to recognize tax resulting from any Global Intangible Low Taxed Income (GILTI) inclusion as a period cost if, and when, incurred. We have not previously provided deferred taxes on unremitted earnings attributable to foreign subsidiaries that have been considered to be reinvested indefinitely. The full effects of the Tax Act require a reassessment of previous indefinite reinvestment assertions with respect to certain jurisdictions. As of January 26, 2019, undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries were considered to have been reinvested indefinitely.

We are subject to U.S. federal income tax as well as income taxes of multiple state and foreign jurisdictions. Fiscal years 2016- 2018 remain open to federal tax examinations and fiscal years 2015-2018 for state income tax examinations. Certain subsidiaries are also subject to income tax in several foreign jurisdictions which have open tax years varying by jurisdiction beginning in fiscal 2008. In the event of any future tax assessments, we have elected to record the income taxes and any related interest and penalties as income tax expense on our condensed consolidated statement of operations.

As of January 26, 2019, we had $575 of unrecognized tax benefits which would reduce our effective tax rate if recognized.

Note 14. Fair Value Measurement

ASC 820, Fair Value Measurement, defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. It also establishes a fair value hierarchy which requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. The fair value hierarchy within ASC 820 distinguishes between the following three levels of inputs which may be utilized when measuring fair value.

Level 1 - Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.

Level 2 - Observable inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 for the assets or liabilities, either directly or indirectly (for example, quoted market prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets or quoted market prices for identical assets or liabilities in markets not considered to be active, inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, or market-corroborated input).

Level 3 - Unobservable inputs supported by little or no market activity based on our own assumptions used to measure assets and liabilities.

The fair values for fixed-rate long-term receivables are estimated using a discounted cash flow analysis based on interest rates currently being offered for contracts with similar terms to customers with similar credit quality. The carrying amounts reported on our condensed consolidated balance sheets for long-term receivables approximate fair value and have been categorized as a Level 2 fair value measurement. Fair values for fixed-rate long-term marketing obligations are estimated using a discounted cash flow calculation applying interest rates currently being offered for debt with similar terms and underlying collateral. The total carrying value of long-term marketing obligations as reported on our condensed consolidated balance sheets within other long-term obligations approximates fair value and has been categorized as a Level 2 fair value measurement.

The following table sets forth by Level within the fair value hierarchy our financial assets and liabilities that were accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis at January 26, 2019 and April 28, 2018 according to the valuation techniques we used to determine their fair values. There have been no transfers of assets or liabilities among the fair value hierarchies presented.





The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of each class of financial instrument. There have been no changes in the valuation techniques used by us to value our financial instruments.











Note 15. Derivative Financial Instruments

We utilize derivative financial instruments to manage the economic impact of fluctuations in currency exchange rates on those transactions denominated in currencies other than our functional currency, which is the U.S. dollar. We enter into currency forward contracts to manage these economic risks. We account for all derivatives on the condensed consolidated balance sheets within accounts receivable or accounts payable measured at fair value, and changes in fair values are recognized in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met for cash flow or net investment hedges. As of January 26, 2019 and April 28, 2018, we had not designated any of our derivative instruments as accounting hedges, and thus we recorded the changes in fair value in "Other (expense) income, net" in the condensed consolidated statements of operations.



As of January 26, 2019, there was an asset and liability of $20 and $24, respectively, and as of April 28, 2018, there was an asset and liability of $41 and $236, respectively, representing the fair value of foreign currency exchange forward contracts, which were determined using Level 2 inputs from a third-party bank.

Item 2. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (including exhibits and any information incorporated by reference herein) contains both historical and forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. The statements contained in this Report that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21B of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including statements regarding our expectations, beliefs, intentions and strategies for the future. These statements appear in a number of places in this Report and include all statements that are not historical statements of fact regarding the intent, belief or current expectations with respect to, among other things: (i.) our competition; (ii.) our financing plans; (iii.) trends affecting our financial condition or results of operations; (iv.) our growth strategy and operating strategy; (v.) the declaration and payment of dividends; (vi.) the timing and magnitude of future contracts; (vii.) raw material shortages and lead times; (viii.) fluctuations in margins; (ix.) the seasonality of our business; (x.) the introduction of new products and technology; (xi.) the amount and frequency of warranty claims; (xii.) our ability to manage the impact that new or adjusted tariffs may have on the cost of raw materials and components and our ability to sell product internationally; (xiii.) resolution of litigation contingencies; and (xiv.) the timing and magnitude of any acquisitions or dispositions. The words “may,” “would,” “could,” “should,” “will,” “expect,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “intend,” “plan” and similar expressions and variations thereof are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Investors are cautioned that any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our ability to control, and that actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors discussed herein, including those discussed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 28, 2018 in the section entitled “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," and those factors discussed in detail in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

The following discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP"). This discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report. The preparation of these condensed financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments affecting the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On a regular basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to total costs on long-term 

construction-type contracts, costs to be incurred for product warranties and extended maintenance contracts, bad debts, excess and obsolete inventory, income taxes, share-based compensation, goodwill impairment and contingencies. Our estimates are based on historical experience and on various other assumptions believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates.

OVERVIEW

We design, manufacture and sell a wide range of display systems to customers throughout the world. We focus our sales and marketing efforts on markets, geographical regions and products. Our five business segments consist of four domestic business units and the International business unit. The four domestic business units consist of Commercial, Live Events, High School Park and Recreation, and Transportation, all of which include the geographic territories of the United States and Canada. Disclosures related to our business segments are provided in "Note 5. Segment Reporting" of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report. 

Our net sales and profitability historically have fluctuated due to the impact of uniquely configured orders, such as display systems for professional sports facilities, colleges and universities, and spectacular projects in the commercial area, as well as the seasonality of the sports market. Uniquely configured orders can include several displays, controllers, and subcontracted structure builds, each of which can occur on varied schedules per the customer's needs. Outdoor installation sales can be impacted by outdoor weather conditions and the construction season. Our third fiscal quarter tends to be a slower quarter because it includes two holidays, it is affected by sports seasonality, and generally less outdoor construction work occurs due to weather conditions. 

Our gross margins tend to fluctuate more on uniquely configured orders than on limited configured orders. Uniquely configured orders involving competitive bidding and substantial subcontract work for product installation generally have lower gross margins. Although we follow the over time method of recognizing revenues for uniquely configured orders, we nevertheless have experienced fluctuations in operating results and expect our future results of operations will be subject to similar fluctuations.

Our remaining performance obligations ("backlog") consist of contractually binding sales agreements or purchase orders for integrated electronic display systems and related products and exclude extended service agreements and service only orders. Orders are included in backlog when we are in receipt of an executed contract and any required deposits or security. As a result, certain orders for which we have received binding letters of intent or contracts will not be included in backlog until all required contractual documents and deposits are received. Backlog can fluctuate due to large order bookings and the timing and seasonality of net sales. Because order backlog fluctuates and may be subject to extended delivery schedules, orders may be canceled and have varied estimated profitability. Our backlog is not necessarily indicative of future net sales or net income.

GENERAL

Our mission is to be the world leader at informing and entertaining audiences through dynamic audio-visual communication systems. We measure our success through estimated market share based on estimated market demand for digital displays and generating profits over the long-term. Our success is contingent on the depth and quality of our products, including related control systems, the depth of our service offerings and our technology serving these market demands. These qualities are important for our long-term success because our products have finite lifetimes, and we strive to win replacement business from existing customers.

Increases in user adoption, the acceptance of a variety of digital solutions, and the decline of digital solution pricing over the years have increased the size of the global market. With this positive demand, strong competition exists across all of our business units, which causes margin constraints. Projects with multimillion-dollar revenue potential also attract competition, which generally reduces profitability.

We organize around customer segments and geographic regions as further described in "Note 5. Segment Reporting" of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report. Each business segment also has unique key growth drivers and challenges. 


•Standard display product market growth due to market adoption and lower product costs, which drive marketplace expansion. Standard display products are used to attract or communicate with customers and potential customers of retail, commercial, and other establishments. Pricing and economic conditions are the principal factors that impact our success in this business unit. We utilize a reseller network to distribute our standard products.

•National accounts standard display market opportunities due to customers' desire to communicate their message, advertising and content consistently across the country. Increased demand is possible from retailers, quick serve restaurants, petroleum businesses, and other nationwide organizations. 

•Increasing interest in spectaculars, which include very large and sometimes highly customized displays as part of entertainment venues such as casinos, shopping centers, cruise ships and Times Square type locations.

•Dynamic messaging systems demand growth due to market adoption and marketplace expansion. 

•The use of architectural lighting products for commercial buildings, which real estate owners use to add accents or effects to an entire side or circumference of a building to communicate messages or to decorate the building.

•The continued deployment of digital billboards as Out-of-Home ("OOH") advertising companies continue developing new sites and replacing digital billboards reaching end of life. This is dependent on no adverse changes occurring in the digital billboard regulatory environment restricting future billboard deployment, as well as maintaining our current market share in a business that is concentrated in a few large OOH companies.

•Replacement cycles within each of these areas. 


•Facilities spending more on larger display systems to enhance the game-day and event experience for attendees.

•Lower product costs, driving an expansion of the marketplace.

•Our product and service offerings, which remain the most integrated and comprehensive offerings in the industry.

•The competitive nature of sports teams, which strive to out-perform their competitors with display systems.

•The desire for high-definition video displays, which typically drives larger displays or higher resolution displays, both of which increase the average transaction size.

•Dynamic messaging systems needs throughout a sports facility.

•Replacement cycles within each of these areas. 


•Increased demand for video systems in high schools as school districts realize the revenue generating potential of these displays compared to traditional scoreboards.

•Increased demand for different types of displays and dynamic messaging systems, such as message centers at schools to communicate to students, parents and the broader community.

•The use of more sophisticated displays in school athletic facilities, such as large integrated video systems.



Each of our business units is impacted by adverse economic conditions in different ways and to different degrees. The effects of an adverse economy are generally less severe on our sports related business as compared to our other businesses, although in severe economic downturns, the sports business also can be seriously impacted. Our Commercial and International business units are highly dependent on economic conditions in general.

The cost to manufacture and the selling prices of our products have decreased over time and are expected to continue to decrease in the future. As a result, each year we must sell more product to generate the same or greater level of net sales as in previous fiscal years. This price decline has been significant as a result of increased competition across all business units.

Our Annual Report discloses Risk Factors we face, including exposure to geopolitical, economic, and social changes. For fiscal year 2019, while we remain optimistic about long-term growth in the digital display industry, the recent U.S. Administrative trade actions, including tariffs and sanctions, and related reactions and responses outside the U.S. are very dynamic. This environment has created volatility, such as increases in pricing of and demand for aluminum, electrical, and other components we use in our production. We continue to monitor the situation and evaluate ways to minimize these impacts through vendor negotiations, alternative sources, and potential price adjustments. We also expect some of the measures being contemplated by various governments will create market reactions and will possibly have significant financial impact in future quarters. 

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

COMPARISON OF THE THREE MONTHS ENDED JANUARY 26, 2019 AND JANUARY 27, 2018 

Net Sales



The increase in orders for the three months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was the net result of volatility in order timing of large custom projects in the spectacular niche and increased demand in the on-premise and OOH niches. 


Orders increased for the three months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago due to the increased number of projects in professional sports and college and university venues. During the third quarter of fiscal 2019, we were awarded two projects each valued at over $4 million, with no similar sized projects in the third quarter of fiscal 2018.


Orders increased for the three months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago due to overall strong market demand and an increase in projects for larger video systems.


Orders for the three months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago decreased primarily due to variability caused by large order timing. 


Orders decreased for the three months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to the variability of timing caused by large projects.

Product Order Backlog

The product order backlog as of January 26, 2019 was $168 million as compared to $151 million as of January 27, 2018 and $150 million at the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2019. Historically, our product order backlog varies due to the seasonality of our business, the timing of large projects, and customer delivery schedules for these orders. The product order backlog as of January 26, 2019 increased from January 27, 2018 in our Commercial, Live Events, High School Park and Recreation, and Transportation business units and decreased in our International business unit.

Gross Profit


Gross profit is net sales less cost of sales. Cost of sales consists primarily of inventory, consumables, salaries, other employee-related costs, facilities-related costs for manufacturing locations, machinery and equipment maintenance and depreciation, site sub-contractors, warranty costs, and other service delivery expenses.







Contribution Margin


Contribution margin consists of gross profit less selling expenses. Selling expenses consist primarily of salaries, other employee-related costs, travel and entertainment expenses, facility-related costs for sales and service offices, bad debt expenses, third-party commissions and expenditures for marketing efforts, including the costs of collateral materials, conventions and trade shows, product demonstrations, customer relationship management systems, and supplies. 


Selling expense in our High School Park and Recreation business unit increased in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the same quarter a year ago due to an increase in the allocation of shared resources to this market's selling efforts. Selling expense in our Live Events business unit decreased in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the same quarter a year ago due to reduced personnel related expenses.

Selling expense in our Commercial, Transportation, and International business units remained relatively flat during the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the same quarter a year ago.

Other Operating Expenses


General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries, other employee-related costs, professional fees, shareholder relations costs, facilities and equipment-related costs for administrative departments, training costs, and the cost of supplies. 

General and administrative expenses in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 increased as compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to an increase in professional fees and IT related systems. 

Product design and development expenses consist primarily of salaries, other employee-related costs, professional services, facilities costs and equipment-related costs and supplies. Product design and development investments in the near term are focused on developing or improving our video technology over a wide range of pixel pitches for both indoor and outdoor applications. These new or improved technologies are focused on varied pixel density for image quality and use, expanded product line offerings for our various markets and geographies, improved quality and reliability, and improved cost points. We plan to make continued investments in our software and controller capabilities throughout our various product offerings. Through all design efforts, we focus on standardizing display components and control systems for both single site and network displays. 

Our costs for product design and development represent an allocated amount of costs based on time charges, professional services, material costs and the overhead of our engineering departments. Generally, a significant portion of our engineering time is spent on product design and development, while the rest is allocated to large contract work and included in cost of sales. 

Product design and development expenses in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 remained relatively flat as compared to the same period one year ago. To deliver value to our customers and serve the markets' expectations, we expect a similar level of expenditures for new or enhanced customer solutions for the remainder of fiscal 2019 as compared to fiscal 2018. 

Other Income and Expenses 



The change in interest income, net for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to the change in investment levels caused by the volatility of working capital needs.


Income Taxes

We calculate the provision for income taxes during interim reporting periods by applying an estimate of the annual effective tax rate for the full fiscal year to “ordinary” income or loss (pretax income or loss excluding unusual or infrequently occurring discrete items) for the reporting period. Due to various factors, including operations in multiple jurisdictions worldwide, our effective tax rate is subject to fluctuation. We have recorded a tax rate of 55.4 percent for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to an effective tax rate of (67.0) percent for the third quarter of fiscal 2018. The change in the effective tax rate is due to tax credits proportionate to pre-tax book income, the release of $2.8 million in unrecognized tax benefits related to a lapse of statute, the release of $0.5 million for a valuation allowance reversal related to foreign net operating loss carryforwards, and a decrease in the federal statutory tax rate from 30.4 percent to 21 percent pursuant to the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”), as compared to the same prior year period, which included a re-measurement of deferred taxes resulting in a $3.7 million impact to tax expense due to the lowering of the tax rate under the Tax Act. The Tax Act reduced the federal normal statutory rate from 35 percent to 21 percent; however, since we are a fiscal year tax filer, a blended rate of 30.4 percent was used for fiscal year 2018.

COMPARISON OF THE NINE MONTHS ENDED JANUARY 26, 2019 AND JANUARY 27, 2018

Net Sales



The increase in orders for the nine months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was the result of volatility in order timing of large custom projects in the spectacular niche and increased demand in the on-premise and OOH niches.


Orders decreased for the nine months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago due to a decreased number of projects in professional sports venues and an order cancellation. During the first nine months of fiscal 2018, we were awarded three projects each valued at over $5 million as compared to one project valued at over $5 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2019.


Orders increased for the nine months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago due to overall strong market demand and an increase in large video system projects.


Orders increased for the nine months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to variability caused by large order timing and continued demand for intelligent transportation systems.


Orders decreased for the nine months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to the variability of timing caused by large projects.

Gross Profit


Gross profit is net sales less cost of sales. Cost of sales consists primarily of inventory, consumables, salaries, other employee-related costs, facilities-related costs for manufacturing locations, machinery and equipment maintenance and depreciation, site sub-contractors, warranty costs, and other service delivery expenses.







Contribution Margin


Contribution margin consists of gross profit less selling expenses. Selling expenses consist primarily of salaries, other employee-related costs, travel and entertainment expenses, facilities-related costs for sales and service offices, bad debt expenses, third-party commissions and expenditures for marketing efforts, including the costs of collateral materials, conventions and trade shows, product demonstrations, customer relationship management systems, and supplies. 


Selling expense in our High School Park and Recreation business unit increased in the nine months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to a change in the allocation of resources to this market's selling efforts. Selling expense in our International business unit increased in the nine months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to third-party commissions and increased personnel related expenses.

Selling expenses in our Commercial, Live Events, and Transportation business units remained relatively flat in the nine months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago.

Other Operating Expenses


General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries, other employee-related costs, professional fees, shareholder relations costs, facilities and equipment-related costs for administrative departments, training costs, and the cost of supplies.

General and administrative expenses in the nine months ended January 26, 2019 decreased as compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to a decrease in professional fees.

Product design and development expenses consist primarily of salaries, other employee-related costs, professional services, facilities costs and equipment-related costs and supplies. Product design and development investments in the near term are focused on developing or improving our video technology over a wide range of pixel pitches for both indoor and outdoor applications. These new or improved technologies are focused on varied pixel density for image quality and use, expanded product line offerings for our various markets and geographies, improved quality and reliability, and improved cost points. We plan to make continued investments in our software and controller capabilities throughout our various product offerings. Through all design efforts, we focus on standardizing display components and control systems for both single site and network displays. 

Our costs for product design and development represent an allocated amount of costs based on time charges, professional services, material costs and the overhead of our engineering departments. Generally, a significant portion of our engineering time is spent on product design and development, while the rest is allocated to large contract work and included in cost of sales.

Product design and development expenses in the nine months ended January 26, 2019 as compared to the same period one year ago increased primarily due to increased labor costs assigned to product design and development projects relating to our strategy to accelerate the deployment of products and solutions to our markets. To deliver value to our customers and serve the markets' expectations, we expect a similar level of expenditures for new or enhanced customer solutions for the remainder of fiscal 2019 as compared to fiscal 2018.

Other Income and Expenses 



The change in interest income, net in the nine months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to the change in investment levels caused by the volatility of working capital needs and changes in investing and financing activities.


Income Taxes

We calculate the provision for income taxes during interim reporting periods by applying an estimate of the annual effective tax rate for the full fiscal year to “ordinary” income or loss (pretax income or loss excluding unusual or infrequently occurring discrete items) for the reporting period. Due to various factors, including operations in multiple jurisdictions worldwide, our effective tax rate is subject to fluctuation. We have recorded a tax rate of (71.8) percent for the nine months ended January 26, 2019 as compared to an effective tax rate of 47.2 percent for the nine months ended January 27, 2018. The change in the effective tax rate is due to tax credits proportionate to pre-tax book income, the release of $2.8 million in unrecognized tax benefits related to a lapse of statute, the release of $0.5 million for a valuation allowance reversal related to foreign net operating loss carryforwards, and a decrease in the federal statutory tax rate from 30.4 percent to 21 percent pursuant to the Tax Act, as compared to the same prior year period, which included a re-measurement of deferred taxes resulting in a $3.7 million impact to tax expense due to the lowering of the tax rate under the Tax Act. The Tax Act reduced the federal normal statutory rate from 35 percent to 21 percent; however, since we are a fiscal year tax filer, a blended rate of 30.4 percent was used for fiscal year 2018.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES



Net cash provided by operating activities was $32.2 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $27.0 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2018. The $5.2 million increase in cash from operating activities from the first nine months of fiscal 2018 to the first nine months of fiscal 2019 was the result of changes in net operating assets and liabilities of $7.7 million, a $1.0 million adjustment of the contingent liability, $0.7 million in depreciation and amortization, $0.5 million increase in net income, and $0.1 million in other non-cash items, net, adjusted by $3.8 million in deferred income taxes, and a $1.0 million gain on the sale of property, equipment and other assets.



Overall, changes in operating assets and liabilities can be impacted by the timing of cash flows on large orders, which can cause significant short-term and seasonal fluctuations in inventory, accounts receivables, accounts payable, contract assets and liabilities, and various other operating assets and liabilities. Variability in contract assets and liabilities relates to the timing of billings on construction-type contracts and revenue recognition, which can vary significantly depending on contractual payment terms and build and installation schedules. Balances are also impacted by the sports market seasonality. 


to $2.1 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2018; this was mostly related to the sale of our non-digital division assets in the first nine months of fiscal 2018. During the first nine months of fiscal 2019, we had a net cash outflow of $2.3 million for the acquisition of assets of AJT Systems, Inc. 



Working capital was $135.6 million and $132.8 million at January 26, 2019 and April 28, 2018, respectively. The changes in working capital, particularly changes in accounts receivable, accounts payable, inventory, and contract assets and liabilities, and the seasonality of the sports market can have a significant impact on the amount of net cash provided by operating activities largely due to the timing of payments and receipts. We have historically financed working capital needs through a combination of cash flow from operations and borrowings under bank credit agreements.

We have used and expect to continue to use cash balances to meet our short-term working capital requirements. On large product orders, the time between order acceptance and project completion may extend up to and exceed 12 months depending on the amount of custom work and a customer’s delivery needs. We often receive down payments or progress payments on these product orders. To the extent these payments are not sufficient to fund the costs and other expenses associated with these orders, we use working capital and bank borrowings to finance these cash requirements.

On November 15, 2016, we entered into a credit agreement and a related revolving note with a U.S. bank. The agreement and note have a maturity date of November 15, 2019. The revolving amount of the agreement and note is $35.0 million, including up to $15.0 million for commercial and standby letters of credits. The interest rate ranges from LIBOR plus 145 basis points to LIBOR plus 195 basis points depending on the ratio of our interest-bearing debt to EBITDA. EBITDA is defined as net income before deductions for interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, all as determined in accordance with GAAP. The effective interest rate was 4.0 percent at January 26, 2019. We are assessed a loan fee equal to 0.125 percent per annum on any unused portion of the loan. As of January 26, 2019, there were no advances to us under the loan portion of the line of credit, and the balance of letters of credit outstanding was approximately $11.2 million.


•A minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of at least 2 to 1 at the end of any fiscal year. The ratio is equal to (a) EBITDA minus the sum of dividends or other distributions (unless the bank approves), share repurchases, a maintenance capital expenditure reserve in the amount of $6.0 million, and income tax to (b) all principal and interest payments with respect to indebtedness, excluding principal payments on the line of credit; and 

•A ratio of funded debt, excluding any marketing obligations, to EBITDA of less than 1 to 1 at the end of any fiscal quarter.

On November 15, 2016, we entered into an amended and restated loan agreement and a continuing and unlimited guaranty agreement with another U.S. bank which supports our credit needs outside of the United States. The loan and guaranty have a maturity date of November 15, 2019. The revolving amount of the loan is $20.0 million. We intend to use the borrowings under the agreement to support credit needs for general corporate purposes outside the United States. This credit agreement is unsecured. It contains the same covenants as the credit agreement on the line of credit and contains an inter creditor agreement whereby the debt has a cross default provision with the primary credit agreement. Total credit allowed between the two credit agreements is limited to $55.0 million. The interest rate is equal to LIBOR plus 1.5 percent. As of January 26, 2019, there were no advances outstanding under the loan agreement and approximately $3.6 million in bank guarantees under this line of credit. 

As of January 26, 2019, we were in compliance with all applicable bank loan covenants.



Although we expect to continue to pay dividends for the foreseeable future, the nature and amounts of dividends will be reviewed regularly and declared by the Board of Directors at its discretion.

We are sometimes required to obtain performance bonds for display installations, and we have a bonding line available through a surety company for an aggregate of $150.0 million in bonded work outstanding. If we were unable to complete the work and our customer would call upon the bond for payment, the surety company would subrogate its loss to Daktronics. At January 26, 2019, we had $6.6 million of bonded work outstanding against this line.

Our business growth and profitability improvement strategies depend on investments in capital expenditures. We are projecting capital expenditures to be less than $20.0 million for fiscal 2019 purchases of manufacturing equipment for new or enhanced product production, expanded capacity, investments in quality and reliability equipment, and continued information infrastructure investments. 

We believe our working capital available from all sources will be adequate to meet the cash requirements of our operations in the foreseeable future. If our growth extends beyond current expectations, profitability does not continue, or if we make any strategic investments, we may need to increase our credit facilities or seek other means of financing. We anticipate we will be able to obtain any needed funds under commercially reasonable terms from our current lenders or other sources, although this availability cannot be guaranteed.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations

There has been no material change in our off-balance sheet arrangements and contractual obligations since the fiscal year ended April 28, 2018. For additional information, see our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 28, 2018.

Significant Accounting Policies and Estimates

We describe our significant accounting policies in "Note 1. Nature of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 28, 2018. We discuss our critical accounting estimates in "Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 28, 2018. In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we adopted new revenue recognition guidance, as described in "Note 1. Basis of Presentation" of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report. There have been no other significant changes in our significant accounting policies or critical accounting estimates since the end of fiscal 2018.

New Accounting Pronouncements

For a summary of recently issued accounting pronouncements and the effects of those pronouncements on our financial results, refer to "Note 1. Basis of Presentation" of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report.

Item 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

We are exposed to certain interest rate, foreign currency, and commodity risks as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 28, 2018. There have been no material changes in our exposure to these risks during the first nine months of fiscal 2019.

Item 4. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

We carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our “disclosure controls and procedures,” as that term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) and Rule 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as of January 26, 2019, which is the end of the period covered by this Report. Based upon that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that as of January 26, 2019, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective.

Based on the evaluation described in the foregoing paragraph, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that during the quarter ended January 26, 2019, there was no change in our internal control over financial reporting which has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

PART II. OTHER INFORMATION

Item 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

Not applicable.

Item 1A. RISK FACTORS

The discussion of our business and operations included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q should be read together with the risk factors described in Item 1A. of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 28, 2018. They describe various risks and uncertainties to which we are or may become subject. These risks and uncertainties, together with other factors described elsewhere in this Report, have the potential to affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies or prospects in a material and adverse manner. New risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our financial condition or financial results.

Item 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS

Share Repurchases

During the nine months ended January 26, 2019, we did not repurchase any shares of our common stock.

Item 3. DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIES

Not applicable.

Item 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES

Not applicable.

Item 5. OTHER INFORMATION

Not applicable.

Item 6. EXHIBITS

A list of exhibits required to be filed as part of this report is set forth in the Index of Exhibits, which immediately precedes such exhibits, and is incorporated herein by reference.

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


Index to Exhibits

Certain of the following exhibits are incorporated by reference from prior filings. The form with which each exhibit was filed and the date of filing are as indicated below; the reports described below are filed as Commission File No. 0-23246 unless otherwise indicated.


