Document   

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION



x QUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the quarterly period ended January 27, 2018

or

o TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934



Daktronics, Inc. 






Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes x No ¨

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company,” and "emerging growth company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 


If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes ¨ No x

The number of shares of the registrant’s common stock outstanding as of February 26, 2018 was 44,474,202.

DAKTRONICS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES


For the Quarter Ended January 27, 2018
PART I. FINANCIAL INFORMATION

Item 1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS






NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



Note 1. Basis of Presentation and Summary of Critical Accounting Policies

Daktronics, Inc. and subsidiaries (the “Company”, “Daktronics”, “we”, “our”, or “us”) is the world's industry leader in designing and manufacturing electronic scoreboards, programmable display systems and large screen video displays for sporting, commercial and transportation applications.

In the opinion of management, the accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring adjustments) necessary to fairly present our financial position, results of operations and cash flows for the periods presented. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP") requires management to make estimates and assumptions affecting the reported amounts therein. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making estimates, actual results in future periods may differ from those estimates.

Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been condensed or omitted. The balance sheet at April 29, 2017 has been derived from the audited financial statements at that date, but it does not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP for complete financial statements. These financial statements should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and notes thereto for the year ended April 29, 2017, which are contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The results of operations for the interim periods presented are not necessarily indicative of results that may be expected for any other interim period or for the full fiscal year.

Daktronics, Inc. operates on a 52- to 53-week fiscal year, with our fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to April 30 of each year. When April 30 falls on a Wednesday, the fiscal year ends on the preceding Saturday. Within each fiscal year, each quarter is comprised of 13-week periods following the beginning of each fiscal year. In each 53-week year, an additional week is added to the first quarter, and each of the last three quarters is comprised of a 13-week period. The nine months ended January 27, 2018 and January 28, 2017 contained operating results for 39 weeks. 

Investments in affiliates over which we have significant influence are accounted for under the equity method of accounting. Investments in affiliates over which we do not have the ability to exert significant influence over the affiliate's operating and financing activities are accounted for under the cost method of accounting. We have evaluated our relationships with our affiliates and have determined that these entities are not variable interest entities. 

The aggregate amount of investments accounted for under the equity method was $3,303 and $2,678 at January 27, 2018 and April 29, 2017, respectively. The equity method requires us to report our share of losses up to our equity investment amount. Cash paid for investments in affiliates is included in the Purchases of equity investment line item in our consolidated statements of cash flows. Our proportional share of the respective affiliate’s earnings or losses is included in the Other (expense) income, net line item in our consolidated statements of operations. For the nine months ended January 27, 2018, our share of the losses of our affiliates was $401.

The aggregate amount of investments accounted for under the cost method was $42 at January 27, 2018 and April 29, 2017, respectively. There have not been any identified events or changes in circumstances that may have a significant adverse effect on their fair value, and it is not practical to estimate their fair value.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

Accounting Standards Adopted

In August 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230) Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments, which reduces the diversity in practice in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows. We early adopted ASU 2016-15 during the second quarter of fiscal 2018. Adoption of ASU 2016-15 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.

In November 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-18, Restricted Cash, which requires that the statements of cash flows explain the change during the period in the total of cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash. Accordingly, restricted cash will be included with cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts presented on the statements of cash flows. We early adopted ASU 2016-18 during the second quarter of fiscal 2018 and applied its provisions retrospectively. Other than the change in presentation within the statements of cash flows, the adoption of ASU 2016-18 did not have an impact on our consolidated financial statements.

Accounting Standards Not Yet Adopted


In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-04, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other (Topic 350), which simplifies the subsequent measurement of goodwill by removing the second step of the two-step impairment test. The amendment requires an entity to perform its annual or interim goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. A goodwill impairment will be the amount by which a reporting unit’s carrying value exceeds its fair value, not to exceed the carrying amount of goodwill. ASU 2017-04 is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, and will require adoption on a prospective basis. We are currently evaluating the effect that adopting ASU 2017-04 will have on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.

In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740) Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other than Inventory, which is intended to improve the accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory. Current GAAP prohibits the recognition of current and deferred income taxes for an intra-entity asset transfer until the asset has been sold to an outside party, which is an exception to the principle of comprehensive recognition of current and deferred income taxes in GAAP. This update eliminates the exception by requiring entities to recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory when the transfer occurs. ASU 2016-16 is effective for us on April 29, 2018. We are currently evaluating the effect that adopting ASU 2016-16 will have on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.

In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments, which provides guidance regarding the measurement and recognition of credit impairment for certain financial assets. ASU 2016-13 is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the effect that adopting ASU 2016-13 will have on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.

In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases for both parties to a contract (that is, lessees and lessors). ASU 2016-02 requires lessees to apply a dual approach, classifying leases as either finance or operating leases based on the principle of whether or not the lease is effectively a financed purchase of the leased asset by the lessee. This classification will determine whether the lease expense is recognized based on an effective interest method or on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. A lessee is also required to record a right-of-use asset and a lease liability for all leases with a term greater than 12 months regardless of their classification. ASU 2016-02 requires lessors to account for leases using an approach that is substantially equivalent to existing guidance for sales-type leases, direct financing leases and operating leases. ASU 2016-02 is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the effect that adopting ASU 2016-02 will have on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. 

In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606). ASU 2014-09 is a comprehensive revenue recognition model that requires a company to recognize revenue from the transfer of goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that the entity expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. The FASB has also issued ASUs 2016-08, 2016-10, 2016-12, and 2016-20 to clarify guidance with respect to principal versus agent considerations and the identification of performance obligations and licensing, to issue guidance on certain narrow areas, and to add practical expedients. We will adopt ASU 2014-09 and related guidance under the modified retrospective method during the first quarter of fiscal 2019. The implementation team has completed its evaluation of the revenue arrangements, analyzed contracts to identify key provisions impacted by Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 606, assessed the applicable accounting, and reviewed existing accounting policies and internal controls. We are in the process of implementing appropriate changes to our business processes, systems and controls to support recognition and disclosure under ASC 606. As a result of the evaluation performed to date, we do not anticipate that the adoption will significantly change the timing or amount of revenue recognized, based upon our current assessment of "point in time" and "over time" revenue recognition. Therefore, we do not anticipate that the adoption of ASU 2014-09 will materially impact our consolidated results of operations and financial statements, other than the additional disclosure requirements.

Note 2. Earnings Per Share ("EPS")

Basic EPS is computed by dividing income attributable to common shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted EPS reflects the potential dilution which may occur if securities or other obligations to issue common stock were exercised or converted into common stock or resulted in the issuance of common stock which share in our earnings.



Options outstanding to purchase 1,203 shares of common stock with a weighted average exercise price of $11.45 for the three months ended January 27, 2018 and 1,354 shares of common stock with a weighted average exercise price of $13.86 for the three months ended January 28, 2017 were not included in the computation of diluted (loss) earnings per share because the effects would be anti-dilutive.

Options outstanding to purchase 1,281 shares of common stock with a weighted average exercise price of $12.55 for the nine months ended January 27, 2018 and 2,380 shares of common stock with a weighted average exercise price of $13.27 for the nine months ended January 28, 2017 were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the effects would be anti-dilutive.

Note 3. Share Repurchase Program 

On June 17, 2016, our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program under which Daktronics, Inc. may purchase up to $40,000 of its outstanding shares of common stock. Under this program, we may repurchase shares from time to time in open market transactions and in privately negotiated transactions based on business, market, applicable legal requirements and other considerations. The repurchase program does not require the repurchase of a specific number of shares and may be terminated at any time. During the first, second and third quarter of fiscal 2018, we had no repurchases of shares of our outstanding common stock. During the first quarter of fiscal 2017, we repurchased 284 shares of common stock at a total cost of $1,825, and there were no other purchases during fiscal 2017. As of January 27, 2018, we had $38,175 of remaining capacity under our current share repurchase program. 

Note 4. Segment Disclosure


Our Commercial business unit primarily consists of sales of our video display systems, digital billboards, Galaxy® and Fuelight™ product lines to resellers (primarily sign companies), Out-of-Home ("OOH") companies, national retailers, quick-serve restaurants, casinos and petroleum retailers. Our Live Events business unit primarily consists of sales of integrated scoring and video display systems to college and professional sports facilities and convention centers and sales of our mobile display technology to video rental organizations and other live events type venues. Our High School Park and Recreation business unit primarily consists of sales of scoring systems, Galaxy® displays and video display systems to primary and secondary education facilities. Our Transportation business unit primarily consists of sales of our Vanguard® and Galaxy® product lines to governmental transportation departments, airlines and other transportation related customers. Our International business unit consists of sales of all product lines outside the United States and Canada. In our International business unit, we focus on product lines related to integrated scoring and video display systems for sports and commercial applications, OOH advertising products, and European transportation related products. 

Our segment reporting presents results through gross profit less selling costs. Gross profit is net sales less cost of goods sold. Cost of goods sold consists primarily of inventory, consumables, salaries, other employee-related costs, facilities-related costs for manufacturing locations, machinery and equipment maintenance and depreciation, site sub-contractors, warranty costs, and other service delivery expenses. Selling expenses consist primarily of salaries, other employee-related costs, travel and entertainment expenses, facilities-related costs for sales and service offices, bad debt expenses, third-party commissions and expenditures for marketing efforts, including the costs of collateral materials, conventions and trade shows, product demos, and supplies. Segment profit excludes general and administration expense, product development expense, interest income and expense, non-operating income and income tax expense. Assets are not allocated to the segments. Depreciation and amortization are allocated to each segment based on various financial measures; however, some depreciation and amortization are corporate in nature and remain unallocated. Our segments follow the same accounting policies as those described in Note 1 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 29, 2017. Unabsorbed manufacturing costs are allocated to the business unit benefiting most from that manufacturing location's production capabilities. Unabsorbed costs of domestic field sales and services infrastructure, including most field administrative staff, are allocated to the Commercial, Live Events, High School Park and Recreation, and Transportation business units based on cost of sales. Shared manufacturing, buildings and utilities, and procurement costs are allocated based on payroll dollars, square footage and various other financial measures.

We do not maintain information on sales by products; therefore, disclosure of such information is not practical.





We have numerous customers worldwide for sales of our products and services; therefore, we are not economically dependent on a limited number of customers for the sale of our products and services except with respect to our dependence on two major digital billboard customers in our Commercial business unit. 

Note 5. Marketable Securities

We have a cash management program which provides for the investment of cash balances not used in current operations. We classify our investments in marketable securities as available-for-sale in accordance with the provisions of ASC 320, Investments – Debt and Equity Securities. Marketable securities classified as available-for-sale are reported at fair value with unrealized gains or losses, net of tax, reported in accumulated other comprehensive loss. As it relates to fixed income marketable securities, it is not likely we will be required to sell any of these investments before recovery of the entire amortized cost basis. In addition, as of January 27, 2018, we anticipate we will recover the entire amortized cost basis of such fixed income securities, and we have determined no other-than-temporary impairments associated with credit losses were required to be recognized. The cost of securities sold is based on the specific identification method. Where quoted market prices are not available, we use the market price of similar types of securities traded in the market to estimate fair value. 



Realized gains or losses on investments are recorded in our consolidated statements of operations as other income (expense), net. Upon the sale of a security classified as available-for-sale, the security’s specific unrealized gain (loss) is reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive loss into earnings based on the specific identification method. In the nine months ended January 27, 2018 and January 28, 2017, the reclassifications from accumulated other comprehensive loss to earnings were immaterial. 



Note 6. Business Combinations

ADFLOW Acquisition

We have a contingent liability related to a prior year acquisition of ADFLOW Networks, Inc. ("ADFLOW"), on March 15, 2016. For more information related to the ADFLOW acquisition, see "Note 4. Business Combinations" of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 29, 2017. The fair value of such contingent consideration is estimated as of the acquisition date, and subsequently at the end of each reporting period, using forecasted cash flows. Projecting future cash flows requires us to make significant estimates and assumptions regarding future events, conditions, or revenues being achieved under the subject contingent agreement as well as the appropriate discount rate. Such valuation techniques include one or more significant inputs that are not observable. See "Note 13. Fair Value Measurement" for more information.

Note 7. Sale of Non-Digital Division

In September 2017, we sold our non-digital division assets, primarily consisting of inventory, non-digital manufacturing equipment, patented and unpatented technology and know-how, customer lists, and backlog, net of warranty obligations and accounts payable with a net book value of $517. We recorded a gain of $1,267 on the disposal, which is included in cost of goods sold in the International business unit. 




We perform an analysis of goodwill on an annual basis, and it is tested for impairment more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that an asset might be impaired. We performed our annual analysis based on the goodwill amount as of the first business day of our third quarter in fiscal 2018, which was October 29, 2017. The result of the analysis indicated no goodwill impairment existed as of that date. 





Accounts receivable are reported net of an allowance for doubtful accounts of $2,311 and $2,610 at January 27, 2018 and April 29, 2017, respectively. Included in accounts receivable as of January 27, 2018 and April 29, 2017 was $2,044 and $1,857, respectively, of retainage on construction-type contracts, all of which is expected to be collected within one year.

In connection with certain sales transactions, we have entered into sales contracts with installment payments exceeding twelve months and sales-type leases. The present value of these contracts and leases are recorded as a receivable as the revenue is recognized in accordance with GAAP, and profit is recognized to the extent the present value is in excess of cost. We generally retain a security interest in the equipment or in the cash flow generated by the equipment until the contract is paid. The present value of long-term contracts and lease receivables, including accrued interest and current maturities, was $4,147 and $4,890 as of January 27, 2018 and April 29, 2017, respectively. Contract and lease receivables bearing annual interest rates of 4.8 to 10.0 percent are due in varying annual installments through August 2024. The face amount of long-term receivables was $4,547 and $5,201 as of January 27, 2018 and April 29, 2017, respectively.

Note 11. Commitments and Contingencies


As of January 27, 2018 and April 29, 2017, we did not believe there was a reasonable probability that any material loss for these various claims or legal actions, including reviews, inspections or other legal proceedings, if any, would be incurred. Accordingly, no material accrual or disclosure of a potential range of loss has been made related to these matters. In the opinion of management, the ultimate liability of all unresolved legal proceedings is not expected to have a material effect on our financial position, liquidity or capital resources.


During fiscal 2016, we discovered a warranty issue caused by a mechanical device failure within a module for displays primarily in our OOH applications built prior to fiscal 2013. The device failure causes a visual defect in the display. Over the past three years, we have deployed preventative maintenance to sites impacted and repaired the defective devices in our repair center. When certain site locations have exceeded an acceptable failure rate, we have refurbished the display to meet customers’ expectations under contractual obligations. During fiscal 2017, 2016, and 2015 we recognized warranty expense for probable and reasonably estimated costs to remediate this issue of $1,766, $9,174, and $1,168, respectively. We recognized warranty expense related to this issue of $4,034 during the nine months ended January 27, 2018. This increased expense level is not the result of a new issue, but is primarily based on our decision to preserve our market leadership. We elected to expand the refurbishments for customer relationship purposes. As of January 27, 2018, we had $3,066 remaining in accrued warranty obligations for the estimate of probable future claims related to this issue. Although many of our contractual warranty arrangements are nearing expiration for products with this issue, we may incur additional discretionary costs to maintain customer relationships or for higher than expected failure rates. Accordingly, it is possible that the ultimate cost to resolve this matter may increase and be materially different from the amount of the current estimate and accrual.









Note 12. Income Taxes

We are subject to U.S. Federal income tax as well as income taxes of multiple state and foreign jurisdictions. Due to various factors and operating in multiple state and foreign jurisdictions, our effective tax is subject to fluctuation. As a result of the expiration of statutes of limitations, our fiscal years 2015, 2016, and 2017 are the remaining years open under statutes of limitations for federal and state income tax examinations. Certain subsidiaries are also subject to income tax in several foreign jurisdictions which have open tax years varying by jurisdiction beginning in fiscal 2008.

As of January 27, 2018, we had $3,179 of unrecognized tax benefits which would reduce our effective tax rate if recognized. 

On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”) into law. The Tax Act makes broad and complex changes to the U.S. tax code. Some of the most significant provisions of the Tax Act impacting us include a reduction of the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, a one-time "deemed repatriation" tax on previously untaxed accumulated earnings and profits of certain subsidiaries in non-U.S. jurisdictions, and a transition of U.S. international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a territorial tax system. 

GAAP accounting for income taxes requires us to record the impact of any tax law change in the quarter the law change is enacted. On December 22, 2017, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 which provides additional guidance allowing companies to record provisional amounts during a measurement period, not to exceed one year from the enactment date of the Tax Act, to account for the impacts of the Tax Act in their financial statements when companies do not have the necessary information available, prepared or analyzed in reasonable detail to complete their accounting for the effects of the changes in the Tax Act. We have accounted for the impacts of the Tax Act to the extent a reasonable estimate could be made during the quarter ended January 27, 2018. We will continue to refine our estimates throughout the measurement period or until the accounting is complete, and the impact of the Tax Act may differ from these estimates, possibly materially, due to, among other things, changes in estimates and assumptions that we have made. 

As a result, we have recorded a provisional reduction to our net deferred tax asset (which represents future tax benefits) of $3,679 which resulted in a corresponding increase to income tax expense for the quarter ended January 27, 2018. The revaluation of our net deferred tax asset is subject to further adjustments during the measurement period due to the complexity of determining our net deferred tax asset as of the enactment date of the Tax Act. Some of the information necessary to determine the accounting impacts of the tax rate change includes finalization of our fiscal 2018 tax return as well as refining the analysis of which existing deferred balances at the enactment date will reverse in fiscal 2018 and which deferred balances will reverse after fiscal 2018.

Additionally, we have recorded a provisional increase to income tax expense of $601 for the one-time deemed repatriation tax. The estimate of the deemed repatriation tax is based, in part, on the amount of cash and other specified assets anticipated to be held by Daktronics’ foreign subsidiaries as of April 28, 2018. As a result, the final amount may change as the amounts are finalized. We plan to pay the tax payable in installments in accordance with the Tax Act.

Note 13. Fair Value Measurement

ASC 820, Fair Value Measurement, defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. It also establishes a fair value hierarchy which requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. The fair value hierarchy within ASC 820 distinguishes between the following three levels of inputs which may be utilized when measuring fair value.

Level 1 - Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.

Level 2 - Observable inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 for the assets or liabilities, either directly or indirectly (for example, quoted market prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets or quoted market prices for identical assets or liabilities in markets not considered to be active, inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, or market-corroborated input).

Level 3 - Unobservable inputs supported by little or no market activity based on our own assumptions used to measure assets and liabilities.

The following table sets forth by Level within the fair value hierarchy our financial assets and liabilities that were accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis at January 27, 2018 and April 29, 2017 according to the valuation techniques we used to determine their fair values. There have been no transfers of assets or liabilities among the fair value hierarchies presented.




The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of each class of financial instrument. There have been no changes in the valuation techniques used by us to value our financial instruments.











Note 14. Derivative Financial Instruments

We utilize derivative financial instruments to manage the economic impact of fluctuations in currency exchange rates on those transactions denominated in currencies other than our functional currency, which is the U.S. dollar. We enter into currency forward contracts to manage these economic risks. We account for all derivatives on the balance sheet within accounts receivable or accounts payable measured at fair value, and changes in fair values are recognized in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met for cash flow or net investment hedges. As of January 27, 2018 and April 29, 2017, we had not designated any of our derivative instruments as accounting hedges, and thus we recorded the changes in fair value in other income (expense), net.



As of January 27, 2018, there was an asset and liability of $64 and $720, respectively, and as of April 29, 2017, there was an asset and liability of $64 and $277, respectively, representing the fair value of foreign currency exchange forward contracts, which were determined using Level 2 inputs from a third-party bank.

Note 15. Subsequent Events

On March 1, 2018, our Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.07 per share on our common stock payable on March 22, 2018 to holders of record of our common stock on March 12, 2018.

Item 2. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (including exhibits and any information incorporated by reference herein) contains both historical and forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. The statements contained in this Report that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21B of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including statements regarding our expectations, beliefs, intentions and strategies for the future. These statements appear in a number of places in this Report and include all statements that are not historical statements of fact regarding the intent, belief or current expectations with respect to, among other things: (i.) our competition; (ii.) our financing plans; (iii.) trends affecting our financial condition or results of operations; (iv.) our growth strategy and operating strategy; (v.) the declaration and payment of dividends; (vi.) the timing and magnitude of future contracts; (vii.) raw material shortages and lead times; (viii.) fluctuations in margins; (ix.) the seasonality of our business; (x.) the introduction of new products and technology; (xi.) the amount and frequency of warranty claims; and (xii.) the timing and magnitude of any acquisitions or dispositions. The words “may,” “would,” “could,” “should,” “will,” “expect,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “intend,” “plans” and similar expressions and variations thereof are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Investors are cautioned that any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our ability to control, and that actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors discussed herein, including those discussed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 29, 2017 in the section entitled “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," and those factors discussed in detail in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

The following discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP"). This discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments affecting the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On a regular basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to total costs on long-term construction-type contracts, costs to be incurred for product warranties and extended maintenance contracts, bad debts, excess and obsolete inventory, income taxes, share-based compensation, goodwill impairment and contingencies. Our estimates are based on historical experience and on various other assumptions believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates.

OVERVIEW

We design, manufacture and sell a wide range of display systems to customers throughout the world. We focus our sales and marketing efforts on markets, geographical regions and products. Our five business segments consist of four domestic business units and the International business unit. The four domestic business units consist of Commercial, Live Events, High School Park and Recreation, and Transportation, all of which include the geographic territories of the United States and Canada. Disclosures related to our business segments are provided in "Note 4. Segment Disclosure" of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report. 

Our net sales and profitability historically have fluctuated due to the impact of large project orders, such as display systems for professional sports facilities, colleges and universities, and spectacular projects in the commercial area, as well as the seasonality of the sports market. Large project orders can include several displays, controllers, and subcontracted structure builds, each of which can occur on varied schedules per the customer's needs. Net sales and gross profit percentages also have fluctuated due to other seasonal factors, including the impact of holidays, which primarily affects our third fiscal quarter. 

Our gross margins on large custom and large standard orders tend to fluctuate more than on small standard orders. Large product orders involving competitive bidding and substantial subcontract work for product installation generally have lower gross margins. Although we follow the percentage of completion method of recognizing revenues for large custom orders, we nevertheless have experienced fluctuations in operating results and expect our future results of operations will be subject to similar fluctuations.

Our backlog consists of contractually binding sales agreements or purchase orders we expect to fill within the next 24 months. Orders, which we define as a receipt of an executed contract and any required deposits, are booked and included in backlog. As a result, certain orders for which we have received binding letters of intent or contracts will not be booked until all required contractual documents and deposits are received. In addition, order bookings can vary significantly on a quarterly basis as a result of the timing of large orders. Because order backlog may be subject to extended delivery schedules, orders may be canceled, and orders have varied estimated 

profitability, our backlog is not necessarily indicative of future net sales or net income. Backlog can fluctuate due to large order booking timing and seasonality. Backlog is not a measure defined by GAAP, and our methodology for determining backlog may vary from the methodology used by other companies in determining their backlog amounts.

For a summary of recently issued accounting pronouncements and the effects of those pronouncements on our financial results, refer to "Note 1. Basis of Presentation and Summary of Critical Accounting Policies" of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report.

GENERAL

Our mission is to be the world leader at informing and entertaining audiences through dynamic audio-visual communication systems. We measure our success through estimated market share based on estimated market demand for digital displays and generating profits over the long-term. Our success is contingent on the depth and quality of our products, including related control systems, the depth of our service offerings and our technology serving these market demands. These qualities are important for our long-term success because our products have finite lifetimes, and we strive to win replacement business from existing customers.

Increases in user adoption, the acceptance of a variety of digital solutions, and the decline of digital solution pricing over the years has increased the size of the global market. With this positive demand, strong competition exists across all of our business units, which causes margin constraints. Projects with multimillion-dollar revenue potential also attract competition, which generally reduces profitability.

We organize around customer segments and geographic regions as further described in "Note 4. Segment Disclosure" of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report. Each business segment also has unique key growth drivers and challenges. 


•Standard display product market growth due to market adoption and lower product costs, which drive marketplace expansion. Standard display products are used to attract or communicate with customers and potential customers of retail, commercial, and other establishments. Pricing and economic conditions are the principal factors that impact our success in this business unit. We utilize a reseller network to distribute our standard products.

•National accounts standard display market opportunities due to customers' desire to communicate their message, advertising and content consistently across the country. Increased demand is possible from retailers, quick serve restaurants, petroleum businesses, and other nationwide organizations. 

•Increasing interest in spectaculars, which include very large and sometimes highly customized displays as part of entertainment venues such as casinos, shopping centers, cruise ships and Times Square type locations.

•Dynamic messaging systems demand growth due to market adoption and marketplace expansion. 

•The use of architectural lighting products for commercial buildings, which real estate owners use to add accents or effects to an entire side or circumference of a building to communicate messages or to decorate the building.

•The continued deployment of digital billboards as Out-of-Home ("OOH") companies continue developing new sites and replacing digital billboards which are reaching end of life. This is dependent on there being no adverse changes in the digital billboard regulatory environment restricting future deployments of billboards, as well as maintaining our current market share of the business concentrated in a few large OOH companies.

•Replacement cycles within each of these areas. 


•Facilities spending more on larger display systems to enhance the game-day and event experience for attendees.

•Lower product costs, driving an expansion of the marketplace.

•Our product and service offerings, which remain the most integrated and comprehensive offerings in the industry.

•The competitive nature of sports teams, which strive to out-perform their competitors with display systems.

•The desire for high-definition video displays, which typically drives larger displays or higher resolution displays, both of which increase the average transaction size.

•Dynamic messaging systems needs throughout a sports facility.

•Replacement cycles within each of these areas. 


•Increased demand for video systems in high schools as school districts realize the revenue generating potential of these displays versus traditional scoreboards.

•Increased demand for different types of displays and dynamic messaging systems, such as message centers at schools to communicate to students, parents and the broader community.

•The use of more sophisticated displays in school athletic facilities, such as large integrated video systems.



Each of our business units is impacted by adverse economic conditions in different ways and to different degrees. The effects of an adverse economy are generally less severe on our sports related business as compared to our other businesses, although in severe economic downturns, the sports business also can be seriously impacted. Our Commercial and International business units are highly dependent on economic conditions in general.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

COMPARISON OF THE THREE MONTHS ENDED JANUARY 27, 2018 AND JANUARY 28, 2017 

Net Sales



The decrease in orders for the three months ended January 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago was the net result of decreases in the billboard niche and decreases in the on-premise niche due to a number of factors, including competitive market pricing, a delay of national account-based opportunities, and the natural volatility of large project timing. 


Orders decreased for the three months ended January 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago due to variability in order timing. 


Orders decreased for the three months ended January 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago due to fewer video project orders which have larger average selling prices in this segment during the period.


Orders for the three months ended January 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago decreased primarily due to variability caused by large order timing. 


Orders increased for the three months ended January 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to the volatility of large order timing.

Backlog

The product order backlog as of January 27, 2018 was $151 million as compared to $170 million as of January 28, 2017 and $155 million at the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2018. Historically, our backlog varies due to the seasonality of our business, the timing of large projects, and customer delivery schedules for these orders. The backlog as of January 27, 2018 decreased from January 28, 2017 in our Commercial, Live Events and Transportation business units, increased in our International business unit, and remained relatively flat in our High School Park and Recreation business unit.

Gross Profit


Gross profit is net sales less cost of goods sold. Cost of goods sold consists primarily of inventory, consumables, salaries, other employee-related costs, facilities-related costs for manufacturing locations, machinery and equipment maintenance and depreciation, site sub-contractors, warranty costs, and other service delivery expenses.







Selling Expense


Selling expenses consist primarily of salaries, other employee-related costs, travel and entertainment expenses, facilities-related costs for sales and service offices, bad debt expenses, third-party commissions and expenditures for marketing efforts, including the costs of collateral materials, conventions and trade shows, product demos, and supplies. 


Other Operating Expenses


General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries, other employee-related costs, professional fees, shareholder relations costs, facilities and equipment-related costs for administrative departments, training costs, and the costs of supplies. 

General and administrative expenses in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 decreased as compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to decreases in personnel expenses. 

Product design and development expenses consist primarily of salaries, other employee-related costs, professional services, facilities costs and equipment-related costs and supplies. Product development investments in the near term are focused on developing or improving our video technology over a wide range of pixel pitches for both indoor and outdoor applications. These new or improved technologies are focused on varied pixel density for image quality and use, expanded product line offerings for our various markets and geographies, improved quality and reliability, and improved cost points. We plan to make continued investments in our software and controller capabilities throughout our various product offerings. Through all design efforts, we focus on standardizing display components and control systems for both single site and network displays. 

Our costs for product development represent an allocated amount of costs based on time charges, professional services, materials costs and the overhead of our engineering departments. Generally, a significant portion of our engineering time is spent on product development, while the rest is allocated to large contract work and is included in cost of goods sold. 

Product development expenses in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 increased as compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to increased labor costs and professional services assigned to product development projects relating to our strategy to accelerate the deployment of products and solutions to our markets. To deliver value to our customers and serve the markets' expectations, we plan to increase the level of expenditures for new or enhanced customer solutions for the remainder of fiscal 2018 as compared to prior years. 

Other Income and Expenses 



Interest income, net in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared to the same period one year ago remained relatively flat. As a result of the volatility of working capital needs and changes in investing and financing activities, along with changes in the interest rate environment, it is difficult to project changes in interest income.


Income Taxes

The current-year rate was significantly impacted by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the “Tax Act”), which was signed into law on December 22, 2017. Most notably, the Tax Act reduced the statutory federal income tax rate for corporations from 35% to 21%. Because we file our tax return based on our fiscal year, the statutory tax rate for our 2018 tax return will be a blended rate of approximately 30.4%. In addition to the effect of the lower overall federal tax rate, the Tax Act resulted in a $3.7 million one-time expense for the estimated re-measurement of our net deferred tax asset and a $0.6 million estimated one-time transition tax on certain undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries in the quarter ended January 27, 2018. Any additional impacts from the enactment of the Tax Act will be recorded as they are identified during the measurement period as provided for in accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 ("SAB 118"). Excluding the impact of this one-time expense, our effective tax rate was 46.9% for the three months ended January 27, 2018. We expect our effective tax rate to be approximately 30% for the remainder of our fiscal year. In fiscal 2019, we expect an effective tax rate of approximately 21%, exclusive of any SAB 118 changes in estimate.

COMPARISON OF THE NINE MONTHS ENDED JANUARY 27, 2018 AND JANUARY 28, 2017

Net Sales



The decrease in orders for the nine months ended January 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago was the net result of decreases in the on-premise and spectacular niches due to a number of factors including competitive market pricing, a delay of national account-based opportunities during the nine months ended January 27, 2018 as compared to the same period last year, and the natural volatility of large project timing.


Orders increased for the nine months ended January 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago due to an increased number of projects in professional sport arenas.


Orders decreased for the nine months ended January 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago due to fewer large sports video projects awarded during the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2017.


Orders decreased for the nine months ended January 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to variability caused by large order timing. 


Orders increased for the nine months ended January 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to the volatility of large order timing. 

Gross Profit


Gross profit is net sales less cost of goods sold. Cost of goods sold consists primarily of inventory, consumables, salaries, other employee-related costs, facilities-related costs for manufacturing locations, machinery and equipment maintenance and depreciation, site sub-contractors, warranty costs, and other service delivery expenses.







Selling Expense


Selling expenses consist primarily of salaries, other employee-related costs, travel and entertainment expenses, facilities-related costs for sales and service offices, bad debt expenses, third-party commissions and expenditures for marketing efforts, including the costs of collateral materials, conventions and trade shows, product demos, and supplies.


Other Operating Expenses


General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries, other employee-related costs, professional fees, shareholder relations costs, facilities and equipment-related costs for administrative departments, training costs, and the costs of supplies.

General and administrative expenses in the nine months ended January 27, 2018 increased as compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to increases in personnel expenses and information technology software and hardware expenses.

Product design and development expenses consist primarily of salaries, other employee-related costs, professional services, facilities costs and equipment-related costs and supplies. Product development investments in the near term are focused on developing or improving our video technology over a wide range of pixel pitches for both indoor and outdoor applications. These new or improved technologies are focused on varied pixel density for image quality and use, expanded product line offerings for our various markets and geographies, improved quality and reliability, and improved cost points. We plan to make continued investments in our software and controller capabilities throughout our various product offerings. Through all design efforts, we focus on standardizing display components and control systems for both single site and network displays. 

Our costs for product development represent an allocated amount of costs based on time charges, professional services, materials costs and the overhead of our engineering departments. Generally, a significant portion of our engineering time is spent on product development, while the rest is allocated to large contract work and is included in cost of goods sold.

Product development expenses in the nine months ended January 27, 2018 as compared to the same period one year ago increased primarily due to increased labor costs and professional services assigned to product development projects relating to our strategy to accelerate the deployment of products and solutions to our markets. To deliver value to our customers and serve the markets' expectations, we plan to increase the level of expenditures for new or enhanced customer solutions for the remainder of fiscal 2018 as compared to prior years.

Other Income and Expenses 



Interest income, net in the nine months ended January 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago decreased as a result of lower long-term receivables which bear imputed interest rates. As a result of the volatility of working capital needs and changes in investing and financing activities, along with changes in the interest rate environment, it is difficult to project changes in interest income.


Income Taxes

Our effective tax rate was 47.2 percent for the nine months ended January 27, 2018 as compared to an effective tax rate of 31.9 percent for the nine months ended January 28, 2017. 

The current-year rate was significantly impacted by the Tax Act, which was signed into law on December 22, 2017. Most notably, the Tax Act reduced the statutory federal income tax rate for corporations from 35% to 21%. Because we file our tax return based on our fiscal year, the statutory tax rate for our 2018 tax return will be a blended rate of approximately 30.4%. In addition to the effect of the lower overall federal tax rate, the Tax Act resulted in a $3.7 million one-time expense for the estimated re-measurement of our net deferred tax asset and a $0.6 million estimated one-time transition tax on certain undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries in the quarter ended January 27, 2018. Any additional impacts from the enactment of the Tax Act will be recorded as they are identified during the measurement period as provided for in accordance with SAB 118. Excluding the impact of this one-time expense, our effective tax rate was 23% for the nine months ended January 27, 2018, and we expect our effective tax rate to be approximately 48% for the remainder of our fiscal year. In fiscal 2019, we expect an effective tax rate of approximately 21%, exclusive of any SAB 118 changes in estimate.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES



Net cash provided by operating activities was $27.0 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $45.4 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2017. The $18.4 million decrease in cash from operating activities from the first nine months of fiscal 2017 to the first nine months of fiscal 2018 was the net result of changes in net operating assets and liabilities of $18.6 million, a $1.4 million decrease in depreciation, amortization and impairment, a $1.2 million gain on the sale of our non-digital division, a $0.9 million decrease in the provision for doubtful accounts, and a $0.1 million decrease in net income, adjusted by an increase of $3.7 million in deferred income taxes and a $0.1 million increase in other non-cash items, net.



Overall, changes in operating assets and liabilities can be impacted by the timing of cash flows on large orders, which can cause significant short-term fluctuations in inventory, accounts receivables, accounts payable, customer deposits, costs and earnings in excess of billings, and various other operating assets and liabilities. Variability in costs and earnings in excess of billings and billings in excess of costs relates to the timing of billings on construction-type contracts and revenue recognition, which can vary significantly depending on contractual payment terms and build and installation schedules. Balances are also impacted by the seasonality of the sports markets. 




Working capital was $142.9 million and $127.1 million at January 27, 2018 and April 29, 2017, respectively. The changes in working capital, particularly changes in accounts receivable, accounts payable, inventory, and costs in excess of billings and billings in excess of costs, and the seasonality of the sports market can have a significant impact on the amount of net cash provided by operating activities largely due to the timing of payments and receipts. We have historically financed working capital needs through a combination of cash flow from operations and borrowings under bank credit agreements.

We have used and expect to continue to use cash balances to meet our short-term working capital requirements. On large product orders, the time between order acceptance and project completion may extend up to and exceed 24 months depending on the amount of custom work and a customer’s delivery needs. We often receive down payments or progress payments on these product orders. To the extent these payments are not sufficient to fund the costs and other expenses associated with these orders, we use working capital and bank borrowings to finance these cash requirements.

On November 15, 2016, we entered into a credit agreement and a related revolving note with a U.S. bank. The agreement and note have a maturity date of November 15, 2019. The revolving amount of the agreement and note is $35.0 million, including up to $15.0 million for commercial and standby letters of credits. The interest rate ranges from LIBOR plus 145 basis points to LIBOR plus 195 basis points depending on the ratio of our interest-bearing debt to EBITDA. EBITDA is defined as net income before deductions for interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, all as determined in accordance with GAAP. The effective interest rate was 3.0 percent at January 27, 2018. We are assessed a loan fee equal to 0.125 percent per annum on any unused portion of the loan. As of January 27, 2018, there were no advances to us under the loan portion of the line of credit, and the balance of letters of credit outstanding was approximately $10.7 million.


•A minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of at least 2 to 1 at the end of any fiscal year. The ratio is equal to (a) EBITDA less dividends or other distributions (with the exception of any U.S. bank approved special cash dividend), a capital expenditure reserve of $6 million, and income tax expenses paid in cash, but excluding cash used to repurchase any Daktronics, Inc. stock over (b) all principal and interest payments with respect to debt, excluding principal payments on the line of credit; and 

•A ratio of interest-bearing debt, excluding any marketing obligations, to EBITDA of less than 1 to 1 at the end of any fiscal quarter.

On November 15, 2016, we entered into an amended and restated loan agreement and a continuing and unlimited guaranty agreement with another U.S. bank which supports our credit needs outside of the United States. The loan and guaranty have a maturity date of November 15, 2019. The revolving amount of the loan is $20.0 million. We intend to use the borrowings under the agreement to support credit needs for general corporate purposes outside the United States. This credit agreement is unsecured. It contains the same covenants as the credit agreement on the line of credit and contains an inter creditor agreement whereby the debt has a cross default provision with the primary credit agreement. Total credit allowed between the two credit agreements is limited to $40.0 million. The interest rate is equal to LIBOR plus 1.5 percent. As of January 27, 2018, there were no advances outstanding under the loan agreement and approximately $2.7 million in bank guarantees under this line of credit. 

As of January 27, 2018, we were in compliance with all applicable bank loan covenants.



Although we expect to continue to pay dividends for the foreseeable future, the nature and amounts of dividends will be reviewed regularly and declared by the Board at its discretion.

We are sometimes required to obtain performance bonds for display installations, and we have a bonding line available through a surety company for an aggregate of $150.0 million in bonded work outstanding. If we were unable to complete the work and our customer would call upon the bond for payment, the surety company would subrogate its loss to Daktronics. At January 27, 2018, we had $8.3 million of bonded work outstanding against this line.

Our business growth and profitability improvement strategies depend on investments in capital expenditures. We are projecting capital expenditures to be less than $20 million for fiscal 2018 for purchases of manufacturing equipment for new or enhanced product production, expanded capacity, investments in quality and reliability equipment, and continued information infrastructure investments. 

We believe our working capital available from all sources will be adequate to meet the cash requirements of our operations in the foreseeable future. If our growth extends beyond current expectations, profitability does not continue, or if we make any strategic investments, we may need to increase our credit facilities or seek other means of financing. We anticipate we will be able to obtain any needed funds under commercially reasonable terms from our current lenders or other sources, although there can be no guarantee of such. 

Item 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Foreign Currency Exchange Rates

Through January 27, 2018, most of our net sales were denominated in U.S. dollars, and our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate changes on net sales had not been significant. For the nine months ended January 27, 2018, net sales originating outside the United States were 16.1 percent of total net sales, of which a portion was denominated in Canadian dollars, Euros, Chinese renminbi, British pounds, Australian dollars, Brazilian reais or other currencies. We manufacture our products in the United States, China, Belgium, and Ireland. Our results of operations could be affected by factors such as changes in foreign currency rates or weak economic conditions in foreign markets. If we believed currency risk in any foreign location is significant, we would utilize foreign exchange hedging contracts to manage our exposure to the currency fluctuations. 

Over the long term, net sales to international markets are expected to increase as a percentage of total net sales and, consequently, a greater portion of our business could be denominated in foreign currencies. In addition, we may fund our foreign subsidiaries’ operating cash needs in the form of loans denominated in U.S. dollars. As a result, operating results may become more subject to fluctuations based upon changes in the exchange rates of certain currencies in relation to the U.S. dollar. To the extent we engage in international sales denominated in U.S. dollars, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products less competitive in international markets. This effect is also impacted by sources of raw materials from international sources. We estimate that a 10 percent change in all foreign exchange rates would impact our reported income before taxes by approximately $1.1 million. This sensitivity analysis disregards the possibilities that rates can move in opposite directions and that losses from one geographic area may be offset by gains from another geographic area. We will continue to monitor and minimize our exposure to currency fluctuations and, when appropriate, use financial hedging techniques, including foreign currency forward contracts and options, to minimize the effect of these fluctuations. However, exchange rate fluctuations as well as differing economic conditions, changes in political climates, differing tax structures and other rules and regulations could adversely affect our ability to effectively hedge exchange rate fluctuations in the future.

We have foreign currency forward agreements in place to offset changes in the value of contracts with customers denominated in a foreign currency. The notional amount of these derivatives is $10.4 million, and all contracts mature within 19 months. These contracts are marked to market each balance sheet date and are not designated as hedges. See "Note 14. Derivative Financial Instruments" of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report for further details.

Interest Rate Risks

Our exposure to market rate risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our marketing obligations and long-term accounts receivable. As of January 27, 2018, our outstanding marketing obligations were $0.5 million, all of which were in fixed rate obligations. 

In connection with the sale of certain display systems, we have entered into various types of financing with customers. The aggregate amounts due from customers include an imputed interest element. The majority of these financings carry fixed rates of interest. As of January 27, 2018, our outstanding long-term receivables were $4.1 million. Each 25 basis point increase in interest rates would have an associated immaterial annual opportunity cost.

The following table provides maturities and weighted average interest rates on our financial instruments sensitive to changes in interest rates.


Of our $49.0 million in cash balances at January 27, 2018, $40.8 million were denominated in U.S. dollars of which $3.7 million is held by our foreign subsidiaries. We have an additional $8.2 million in cash balances denominated in foreign currencies of which $7.1 million are maintained in accounts of our foreign subsidiaries. A portion of the cash held in foreign accounts is used to collateralize outstanding bank guarantees issued by our foreign subsidiaries.

Commodity Risk


Item 4. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

We carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our “disclosure controls and procedures,” as that term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) and Rule 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as of January 27, 2018, which is the end of the period covered by this Report. Based upon that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that as of January 27, 2018, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective.

Based on the evaluation described in the foregoing paragraph, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that during the quarter ended January 27, 2018, there was no change in our internal control over financial reporting which has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

PART II. OTHER INFORMATION

Item 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

Not applicable.

Item 1A. RISK FACTORS

The discussion of our business and operations included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q should be read together with the risk factors described in Item 1A. of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 29, 2017. They describe various risks and uncertainties to which we are or may become subject. These risks and uncertainties, together with other factors described elsewhere in this Report, have the potential to affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies or prospects in a material and adverse manner. New risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our financial condition or financial results.

Item 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS

Share Repurchases

During the nine months ended January 27, 2018, we did not repurchase any shares of our common stock.

Item 3. DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIES

Not applicable.

Item 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES

Not applicable.

Item 5. OTHER INFORMATION

Not applicable.

Item 6. EXHIBITS

A list of exhibits required to be filed as part of this report is set forth in the Index of Exhibits, which immediately precedes such exhibits, and is incorporated herein by reference.

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


Index to Exhibits

Certain of the following exhibits are incorporated by reference from prior filings. The form with which each exhibit was filed and the date of filing are as indicated below; the reports described below are filed as Commission File No. 0-23246 unless otherwise indicated.


