UNITED STATES 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 




 xQUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 FOR THE QUARTERLY PERIOD ENDED MARCH 31, 2018  

OR 


COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-10596 

ESCO TECHNOLOGIES INC. 





Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. 

Yes x No ¨ 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (Section 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). 

Yes x No ¨ 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 


If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ¨ 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes ¨ No x 

Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the issuer’s classes of common stock, as of the latest practicable date. 

 Class   Shares outstanding at May 1, 2018 

 Common stock, $.01 par value per share   25,907,905   

PART I. FINANCIAL INFORMATION 

ITEM 1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

ESCO TECHNOLOGIES INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 




See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 




See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 


ESCO TECHNOLOGIES INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) 




See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 


ESCO TECHNOLOGIES INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 




See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 


ESCO TECHNOLOGIES INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 




See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 


ESCO TECHNOLOGIES INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



The accompanying consolidated financial statements, in the opinion of management, include all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring accruals, necessary for a fair presentation of the results for the interim periods presented. The consolidated financial statements are presented in accordance with the requirements of Form 10-Q and consequently do not include all the disclosures required for annual financial statements by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). For further information, refer to the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017. 

The Company’s results for the three and six-month periods ended March 31, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results for the entire 2018 fiscal year. References to the second quarters of 2018 and 2017 represent the fiscal quarters ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires Management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities. Actual results could differ from those estimates. 


On March 14, 2018, the Company acquired the assets of Manta Test Systems Inc. (Manta), a North American utility solutions provider located in Mississauga, Ontario, Canada, for a purchase price of $9.5 million in cash. Manta has annualized sales of approximately $8 million. Since the date of acquisition, the operating results for Manta have been included as a product line of Doble within the Company’s USG segment. Based on the preliminary purchase price allocation, the Company recorded approximately $0.4 million of accounts receivable, $1.1 million of inventory, $0.2 million of property, plant and equipment, $0.4 million of accounts payable and accrued expenses, $3.5 million of goodwill, $1.2 million of tradenames and $3.6 million of amortizable intangible assets consisting of customer relationships with a weighted average life of 13 years. 

 3.EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS)  





The Company provides compensation benefits to certain key employees under several share-based plans providing for performance-accelerated restricted shares (restricted shares), and to non-employee directors under a non-employee directors compensation plan. 

Performance-Accelerated Restricted Share Awards 

Compensation expense related to the restricted share awards was $1.0 million and $2.1 million for the three and six-month periods ended March 31, 2018, respectively, and $1.2 million and $2.4 million for the corresponding periods of 2017. There were 221,024 non-vested shares outstanding as of March 31, 2018. 

Non-Employee Directors Plan 

Compensation expense related to the non-employee director grants was $0.3 million and $0.5 million for the three and six-month periods ended March 31, 2018, respectively, and $0.2 million and $0.5 million for the corresponding periods of 2017. 






 6.GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS  








Management evaluates and measures the performance of its reportable segments based on “Net Sales” and “EBIT”, which are detailed in the table below. EBIT is defined as earnings before interest and taxes. 


Non-GAAP Financial Measures 

The financial measure “EBIT” is presented in the above table and elsewhere in this Report. EBIT on a consolidated basis is a non-GAAP financial measure. Management believes that EBIT is useful in assessing the operational profitability of the Company’s business segments because it excludes interest and taxes, which are generally accounted for across the entire Company on a consolidated basis. EBIT is also one of the measures used by management in determining resource allocations within the Company as well as incentive compensation. A reconciliation of EBIT to net earnings is set forth in Item 2, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – EBIT. 

The Company believes that the presentation of EBIT provides important supplemental information to investors to facilitate comparisons with other companies, many of which use similar non-GAAP financial measures to supplement their GAAP results. However, the Company’s non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to other companies’ non-GAAP financial performance measures. Furthermore, the use of non-GAAP financial measures is not intended to replace any measures of performance determined in accordance with GAAP. 





The Company’s existing credit facility (“the Credit Facility”) matures December 21, 2020. The Credit Facility includes a $450 million revolving line of credit as well as provisions allowing for the increase of the credit facility commitment amount by an additional $250 million, if necessary, with the consent of the lenders. The bank syndication supporting the facility is comprised of a diverse group of nine banks led by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent. 

At March 31, 2018, the Company had approximately $176 million available to borrow under the Credit Facility, and a $250 million increase option, in addition to $42.9 million cash on hand. At March 31, 2018, the Company had $265 million of outstanding borrowings under the Credit Facility in addition to outstanding letters of credit of $9.1 million. The Company classified $20.0 million as the current portion of long-term debt as of March 31, 2018, as the Company intends to repay this amount within the next twelve month period; however, the Company has no contractual obligation to repay such amount during the next twelve month period. 

The Credit Facility requires, as determined by certain financial ratios, a facility fee ranging from 12.5 to 27.5 basis points per year on the unused portion. The terms of the facility provide that interest on borrowings may be calculated at a spread over the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) or based on the prime rate, at the Company’s election. The facility is secured by the unlimited guaranty of the Company’s material domestic subsidiaries and a 65% pledge of the material foreign subsidiaries’ share equity. The financial covenants of the Credit Facility include a leverage ratio and an interest coverage ratio. The weighted average interest rates were 2.99% and 2.87% for the three and six-month periods ending March 31, 2018, respectively, and 1.89% and 1.76% for the corresponding periods of 2017. At March 31, 2018, the Company was in compliance with all debt covenants. 



In the first quarter of 2018, the Company recorded a $2.3 million provisional estimate of the income tax effects of the future repatriation of the cumulative earnings of its foreign subsidiaries which unfavorably impacted the year-to-date effective tax rate by 8.9%. An additional $7.5 million pension contribution for the 2017 plan year was approved increasing the value of the deferred tax liability by $1.0 million (provisional amount). This favorable adjustment, net of the $0.3 million unfavorable impact to the 2017 Domestic Production Deduction, favorably impacted the second quarter and year-to-date effective tax rate by 5.8% and 3.0%, respectively. The income tax expense in the second quarter and first six months of 2018 was also unfavorably impacted by the cancellation of debt income triggered by the dissolution of a foreign subsidiary increasing the second quarter and year-to-date effective tax rate by 1.5% and 0.8%, respectively. 

Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (SAB 118) was issued by the SEC effective December 22, 2017. SAB 118 allows registrants to record provisional amounts of the income tax effects of the TCJA where the information necessary to complete the accounting under ASC Topic 740 is not available but the amounts are based on reasonable estimates. SAB 118 permits registrants to record adjustments to its provisional amounts during the measurement period (which cannot exceed one year). 


In the first quarter of 2018, the Company recorded reasonable estimates of the TCJA income tax effects. In the second quarter of 2018, the Company was unable to complete the accounting under ASC Topic 740 for the change in the value of the Company’s deferred tax assets and liabilities as it needs more time to collect and analyze information primarily related to depreciation expense, pension liability (see provisional adjustment described above), and percentage of completion revenue recognition. The accounting for these items will be completed within the allotted measurement period. During the second quarter of 2018, the Company collected and analyzed some of the additional information needed to complete the accounting under ASC Topic 740 for the income tax effects of subjecting the Company’s cumulative foreign earnings to federal income tax and as described above recorded an adjustment of $0.7 million. This amount remains provisional as the Company needs more time to collect and analyze the remaining information to compute the cumulative balance of earnings subject to the tax and the amount of foreign tax credit that is available to offset the tax. 

Since the TCJA subjected the Company’s cumulative foreign earnings to U.S. tax, repatriation of those earnings generally provides that no additional federal tax will be imposed. However, the permissible amount of repatriation can be restricted by local law and a repatriation can result in tax expense due to local country withholding tax, U.S. state tax, and changes in foreign exchange rates. The Company is evaluating these considerations to determine the amount of its foreign subsidiaries’ cumulative earnings it intends to indefinitely reinvest. 

The TCJA includes a tax on global intangible low-taxed income (“GILTI”). The Company expects it will be subject to this tax. At its January 10, 2018 meeting, the FASB staff indicated that companies should make and disclose a policy election as to whether they will recognize deferred taxes for basis differences expected to reverse as GILTI or whether they will account for GILTI as period costs if and when incurred. Because there are interpretative questions associated with the approach that involves recognizing deferred taxes, the Company is in the process of evaluating and will make the accounting policy election during the SAB 118 measurement period. 









Market risks relating to the Company’s operations result primarily from changes in interest rates and changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The Company is exposed to market risk related to changes in interest rates and selectively uses derivative financial instruments, including forward contracts and swaps, to manage these risks. During 2016, the Company entered into several forward contracts to purchase pounds sterling (GBP) to hedge two deferred payments due in connection with the acquisition of Plastique. During the first quarter of 2018, the Company entered into three interest rate swaps with a notional amount of $150 million to hedge some of its exposure to variability in future LIBOR-based interest payments on variable rate debt. In addition, the Company’s Canadian subsidiary Morgan Schaffer enters into foreign exchange contracts to manage foreign currency risk as a portion of their revenue is denominated in U.S. dollars. The Company expects hedging gains or losses to be essentially offset by losses or gains on the related underlying exposures. All derivative instruments are reported in either accrued expenses or other receivables on the balance sheet at fair value. For derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges, the gain or loss on the derivative is deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income until recognized in earnings with the underlying hedged item. The interest rate swaps entered into during the first quarter of 2018 were not designated as cash flow hedges and, therefore, the gain or loss on the derivative is reflected in earnings each period. 







   · Level 1 – inputs to the valuation methodology are quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets. 

   · Level 2 – inputs to the valuation methodology include quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, and inputs that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the financial instrument. 

   · Level 3 – inputs to the valuation methodology are unobservable and significant to the fair value measurement.  

Financial Assets and Liabilities 

The Company has estimated the fair value of its financial instruments as of March 31, 2017 and September 30, 2016 using available market information or other appropriate valuation methodologies. The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, receivables, inventories, payables, debt and other current assets and liabilities approximate fair value because of the short maturity of those instruments. 


Fair Value of Financial Instruments 



Valuation was based on third party evidence of similarly priced derivative instruments. 

Nonfinancial Assets and Liabilities 

The Company’s nonfinancial assets such as property, plant and equipment, and other intangible assets are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis; however they are subject to fair value adjustments in certain circumstances, such as when there is evidence that an impairment may exist. No impairments were recorded during the three and six-month periods ended March 31, 2018. 


In March 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-07, Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost, which updates ASC 715, Compensation – Retirement Benefits. This update permits only the service cost component of net periodic pension and postretirement expense to be reported with other compensation costs, while all other components are required to be reported separately in other deductions, outside any subtotal of operating income. These updates are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, with early adoption permitted, and must be adopted on a retrospective basis. The updates change presentation only and will not impact the Company’s results of operations. 

In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-12, Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedge Activities, which updates ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging. This update is intended to amend the hedge accounting model to enable entities to better align the economics of risk management activities and financial reporting. The updates eliminate the requirement to separately measure and report hedge ineffectiveness and simplify hedge documentation and effectiveness assessment requirements. These updates are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted, and must be adopted using a modified retrospective approach. These updates are not expected to materially impact the Company’s results of operations. 

In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-062, Leases (Topic 842), which, among other things, requires an entity to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclose key information about leasing arrangements. This standard will increase an entities’ reported assets and liabilities. The standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018 and mandates a modified retrospective transition period for all entities. The Company is currently assessing the impact of this standard on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. 

In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue to which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers. This guidance has been further clarified and amended. The new standard will be effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within those annual periods. The standard permits the use of either the retrospective or cumulative effect transition method. The Company is currently in the process of evaluating the effect that ASU 2014-09 will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. The Company has selected the Cumulative Effect method of transition to the new standard. 


ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

References to the second quarters of 2018 and 2017 represent the three-month periods ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 

OVERVIEW 

In the second quarter of 2018, sales, net earnings and diluted earnings per share were $174.8 million, $10.0 million and $0.38 per share, respectively, compared to $161.2 million, $11.2 million and $0.43 per share, respectively, in the second quarter of 2017. In the first six months of 2018, sales, net earnings and diluted earnings per share were $348.3 million, $44.7 million and $1.72, respectively, compared to $307.5 million, $21.9 million and $0.84 per share, respectively, in the first six months of 2017. 

NET SALES 

Net sales increased $13.6 million, or 8.4%, to $174.8 million in the second quarter of 2018 from $161.2 million in the second quarter of 2017. Net sales increased $40.8 million, or 13.2%, to $348.3 million in the first six months of 2018 from $307.5 million in the first six months of 2017. The increase in net sales in the second quarter of 2018 as compared to the second quarter of 2017 was due to a $14.0 million increase in the USG segment, a $2.4 million increase in the Test segment and a $0.3 million increase in the Technical Packaging segment, partially offset by a $3.1 million decrease in the Filtration segment. The increase in net sales in the first six months of 2018 as compared to the corresponding prior year period was due to a $34.3 million increase in the USG segment, a $6.2 million increase in the Test segment and a $2.2 million increase in the Technical Packaging segment, partially offset by a $1.9 million decrease in the Filtration segment. 

-Filtration 



-Test 

In the second quarter of 2018, net sales of $40.8 million were $2.4 million, or 6.3%, higher than the $38.4 million recorded in the second quarter of 2017. Net sales increased $6.1 million, or 8.4%, to $78.3 million in the first six months of 2018 from $72.2 million in the first six months of 2017. The increase in the second quarter and first six months of 2018 compared to the corresponding periods of 2017 was primarily due to higher sales from the segment’s U.S. operations due to the timing of test and measurement chamber projects. 

-Utility Solutions Group (USG) 

Net sales increased $14.0 million, or 42.8%, to $46.7 million in the second quarter of 2018 from $32.7 million in the second quarter of 2017. Net sales increased $34.3 million, or 50.3%, to $102.5 million in the first six months of 2018 from $68.2 million in the first six months of 2017. The increase in the second quarter of 2018 compared to the second quarter of 2017 was mainly due to the sales contributions from the NRG, Morgan Schaffer and Vanguard Instruments (Vanguard) acquisitions. The increase in the first six months of 2018 compared to the first six months of 2017 was mainly due to the sales contributions from NRG, Morgan Schaffer and Vanguard and new products and software solutions at Doble. 

-Technical Packaging 

In the second quarter of 2018, net sales of $21.5 million were $0.3 million, or 1.4%, higher than the $21.2 million in the second quarter of 2017. Net sales increased $2.3 million, or 5.8%, to $41.7 million in the first six months of 2018 from $39.4 million in the first six months of 2017. The increase in the second quarter and first six months of 2018 compared to the corresponding periods of 2017 was primarily due to the increase in net sales from Plastique due to increased shipments to new customers as well as fluctuations in currency. 

ORDERS AND BACKLOG 

Backlog was $416.7 million at March 31, 2018 compared with $377.1 million at September 30, 2017. The Company received new orders totaling $187.3 million in the second quarter of 2018 compared to $166.9 million in the second quarter of 2017. Of the new orders received in the second quarter of 2018, $67.8 million related to Filtration products, $48.1 million related to Test products, $52.5 million related to USG products, and $18.9 million related to Technical Packaging products. Of the new orders received in the second quarter of 2017, $62.0 million related to Filtration products, $44.2 million related to Test products, $33.0 million related to USG products, and $27.6 million related to Technical Packaging products. 

The Company received new orders totaling $387.8 million in the first six months of 2018 compared to $349.8 million in the first six months of 2017. Of the new orders received in the first six months of 2018, $133.2 million related to Filtration products, $106.4 million related to Test products, $110.1 million related to USG products, and $38.1 million related to Technical Packaging products. Of the new orders received in the first six months of 2017, $129.5 million related to Filtration products, $100.2 million related to Test products, $72.6 million related to USG products, and $47.4 million related to Technical Packaging products. 

SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES 



AMORTIZATION OF INTANGIBLE ASSETS 

Amortization of intangible assets was $4.6 million and $9.0 million for the second quarter and first six months of 2018, respectively, compared to $3.8 million and $7.5 million for the corresponding periods of 2017. Amortization expenses consist of amortization of acquired intangible assets from acquisitions and other identifiable intangible assets (primarily software). The increase in amortization expense in the second quarter and first six months of 2018 compared to the corresponding periods of 2017 was mainly due to an increase in amortization of intangibles related to the Morgan Schaffer, NRG and Mayday acquisitions. 

OTHER EXPENSES (INCOME), NET 

Other expenses, net, was $1.5 million in the second quarter of 2018 compared to other income, net, of $0.6 million in the second quarter of 2017. The principal components in other expenses, net, in the second quarter of 2018 were $2.1 million of charges primarily related to the USG segment restructuring activities, including the Doble facility consolidations, partially offset by gains on derivative instruments. The restructuring charges mainly related to severance and compensation benefits, professional fees and asset impairment charges related to abandoned assets. There were no individually significant items in other (income) expenses, net, in the second quarter of 2017. 

Other expenses, net, was $1.6 million in the first six months of 2018 compared to other income, net, of $1.3 million in the first six months of 2017. The principal components in other expenses, net, in the first six months of 2018 were $2.1 million of charges related to the USG segment restructuring activities as mentioned above, partially offset by gains on derivative instruments. The principal component in other income, net, in the first six months of 2017 was $0.4 million of income related to death benefit insurance proceeds from a former subsidiary.  

EBIT 

The Company evaluates the performance of its operating segments based on EBIT, and provides EBIT on a consolidated basis, which is a non-GAAP financial measure. Please refer to the discussion of non-GAAP financial measures in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, above. EBIT was $15.6 million (8.9% of net sales) for the second quarter of 2018 compared to $17.7 million (11.0% of net sales) for the second quarter of 2017. For the first six months of 2018, EBIT was $30.6 million (8.8% of net sales) compared to $34.5 million (11.2% of net sales) for the first six months of 2017. 

The following table presents a reconciliation of EBIT to net earnings. 


-Filtration 


-Test 

EBIT in the second quarter of 2018 was $5.3 million (13.0% of net sales) compared to $3.8 million (9.8% of net sales) in the second quarter of 2017. EBIT in the first six months of 2018 was $7.9 million (10.1% of net sales) compared to $6.2 million (8.6% of net sales) in the first six months of 2017. The increase in EBIT in the second quarter and first six months of 2018 compared to the corresponding prior year periods was primarily due to the increased sales volumes mainly from the segment’s U.S. operations. 


-Utility Solutions Group 

EBIT in the second quarter of 2018 was $5.6 million (12.0% of net sales) compared to $7.4 million (22.8% of net sales) in the second quarter of 2017. EBIT in the first six months of 2018 was $16.3 million (15.9% of net sales) compared to EBIT of $17.1 million (25.1% of net sales) in the first six months of 2017. The decrease in EBIT in the second quarter and first six months of 2018 compared to the corresponding periods of 2017 was mainly due to the restructuring charges incurred in the second quarter of 2018 and product mix. During the second quarter of 2018, the Company incurred $1.9 million of charges related to closing the Doble facilities in Norway and China consisting mainly of employee severance and compensation benefits, professional fees, and asset impairment charges. 

-Technical Packaging 

EBIT in the second quarter of 2018 was $1.9 million (8.8% of net sales) compared to $2.2 million (10.3% of net sales) in the second quarter of 2017. EBIT in the first six months of 2018 was $2.9 million (6.8% of net sales) compared to $3.2 million (8.2% of net sales) in the first six months of 2017. The decrease in EBIT in the second quarter and first six months of 2018 compared to the corresponding periods of 2017 was mainly due to product mix at Plastique including lower margin projects. 

-Corporate 

Corporate costs included in EBIT were $8.3 million and $17.2 million in the second quarter and first six months of 2018, respectively, compared to $7.3 million and $14.4 million in the corresponding periods of 2017. The increase in Corporate costs in the second quarter and first six months of 2018 compared to the corresponding periods of 2017 was primarily due to higher professional fees and an increase in amortization of intangible assets related to recent acquisitions. 

INTEREST EXPENSE, NET 

Interest expense was $2.0 million and $4.2 million in the second quarter and first six months of 2018, respectively, and $0.9 million and $1.5 million in the corresponding periods of 2017. The increase in interest expense in the first six months of 2018 compared to the corresponding period of 2017 was mainly due to higher average outstanding borrowings ($264 million compared to $167 million) and higher average interest rates (2.9% vs. 1.8%) as a result of the additional borrowings to fund the Company’s recent acquisitions. 

INCOME TAX EXPENSE 


In the first quarter of 2018, the Company recorded a $2.3 million provisional estimate of the income tax effects of the future repatriation of the cumulative earnings of its foreign subsidiaries which unfavorably impacted the year-to-date effective tax rate by 8.9%. An additional $7.5 million pension contribution for the 2017 plan year was approved increasing the value of the deferred tax liability by $1.0 million (provisional amount). This favorable adjustment, net of the $0.3 million unfavorable impact to the 2017 Domestic Production Deduction, favorably impacted the second quarter and year-to-date effective tax rate by 5.8% and 3.0%, respectively. The income tax expense in the second quarter and first six months of 2018 was also unfavorably impacted by the cancellation of debt income triggered by the dissolution of a foreign subsidiary increasing the second quarter and year-to-date effective tax rate by 1.5% and 0.8%, respectively. 

In the first quarter of 2018, the Company recorded reasonable estimates of the TCJA income tax effects. In the second quarter of 2018, the Company was unable to complete the accounting under ASC Topic 740 for the change in the value of the Company’s deferred tax assets and liabilities as it needs more time to collect and analyze information primarily related to depreciation expense, pension liability (see provisional adjustment described above), and percentage of completion revenue recognition. The accounting for these items will be completed within the allotted measurement period. In the second quarter of 2018, the Company collected and analyzed some of the additional information needed to complete the accounting under ASC Topic 740 for the income tax effects of subjecting the Company’s cumulative foreign earnings to federal income tax and as described above recorded a $0.7 million adjustment. This amount remains provisional as the Company needs more time to collect and analyze the remaining information to compute the cumulative balance of earnings subject to the tax and the amount of foreign tax credit that is available to offset the tax. 

Since the TCJA subjected the Company’s cumulative foreign earnings to U.S. tax, repatriation of those earnings generally provides that no additional federal tax will be imposed. However, the permissible amount of repatriation can be restricted by local law and a repatriation can result in tax expense due to local country withholding tax, U.S. state tax, and changes in foreign exchange rates. The Company is evaluating these considerations to determine the amount of its foreign subsidiaries’ cumulative earnings it intends to indefinitely reinvest. 

The TCJA includes a tax on global intangible low-taxed income (“GILTI”). The Company expects it will be subject to this tax. At its January 10, 2018 meeting, the FASB staff indicated that companies should make and disclose a policy election as to whether they will recognize deferred taxes for basis differences expected to reverse as GILTI or whether they will account for GILTI as period costs if and when incurred. Because there are interpretative questions associated with the approach that involves recognizing deferred taxes, the Company is in the process of evaluating and will make the accounting policy election during the SAB 118 measurement period. 

TCJA moved the U.S. to a federal tax system that will no longer tax dividends from foreign corporations to U.S. corporations. The cost of transitioning to this new tax system is a deemed repatriation of cumulative foreign earnings, the “Foreign Earnings Toll Charge”, the estimated tax cost of which was recorded in the first quarter and trued up during the second quarter of 2018. The actual repatriation of foreign earnings triggers foreign dividend withholding taxes and U.S. state taxes, the estimated cost of which was recorded in the first quarter and trued up during the second quarter of 2018. 

During the three-month period ended March 31, 2018, there were no material changes in the unrecognized tax benefits. The Company does not anticipate a material change in the amount of unrecognized tax benefits in the next twelve months. 


CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY 

The Company’s overall financial position and liquidity remains strong. Working capital (current assets less current liabilities) increased to $205.9 million at March 31, 2018 from $197.8 million at September 30, 2017. Inventories increased by $12.5 million during this period mainly due to a $6.2 million increase within the Filtration segment primarily to support new aerospace platforms and a $4.1 million increase within the USG segment. Costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings on long-term contracts decreased $7.0 million in the first six months of 2018 due to ETS-Lindgren ($4.7 million) and VACCO ($2.3 million). 

Net cash provided by operating activities was $33.0 million and $36.7 million in the first six months of 2018 and 2017, respectively. The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities in the first six months of 2018 as compared to the first six months of 2017 was due to higher working capital requirements. 

Capital expenditures were $10.1 million and $15.4 million in the first six months of 2018 and 2017, respectively. The decrease in the first six months of 2018 was mainly due to a decrease in machinery and equipment at Plastique ($3.0 million) and VACCO ($1.6 million). In addition, the Company incurred expenditures for capitalized software of $4.6 million and $3.4 million in the first six months of 2018 and 2017, respectively. 

Credit Facility 

At March 31, 2018, the Company had approximately $176 million available to borrow under its bank credit facility, a $250 million increase option, and $42.9 million cash on hand. At March 31, 2018, the Company had $265 million of outstanding borrowings under the credit facility in addition to outstanding letters of credit of $9.1 million. Cash flow from operations and borrowings under the Company’s credit facility are expected to meet the Company’s capital requirements and operational needs for the foreseeable future. The Company’s ability to access the additional $250 million increase option of the credit facility is subject to acceptance by participating or other outside banks. 

New Accounting Standards 

In March 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-07, Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost, which updates ASC 715, Compensation – Retirement Benefits. This update permits only the service cost component of net periodic pension and postretirement expense to be reported with other compensation costs, while all other components are required to be reported separately in other deductions, outside any subtotal of operating income. These updates are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, with early adoption permitted, and must be adopted on a retrospective basis. The updates change presentation only and will not impact the Company’s results of operations. 

In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-12, Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedge Activities, which updates ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging. This update is intended to amend the hedge accounting model to enable entities to better align the economics of risk management activities and financial reporting. The updates eliminate the requirement to separately measure and report hedge ineffectiveness and simplify hedge documentation and effectiveness assessment requirements. These updates are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted, and must be adopted using a modified retrospective approach. These updates are not expected to materially impact the Company’s results of operations. 

In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-062, Leases (Topic 842), which, among other things, requires an entity to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclose key information about leasing arrangements. This standard will increase an entities’ reported assets and liabilities. The standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018 and mandates a modified retrospective transition period for all entities. The Company is currently assessing the impact of this standard on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. 

In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue to which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers. This guidance has been further clarified and amended. The new standard will be effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within those annual periods. The standard permits the use of either the retrospective or cumulative effect transition method. The Company is currently in the process of evaluating the effect that ASU 2014-09 will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. The Company has selected the Cumulative Effect method of transition to the new standard. 

Acquisitions 

On March 14, 2018, the Company acquired the assets of Manta Test Systems Inc. (Manta), a North American utility solutions provider located in Mississauga, Ontario, Canada, for a purchase price of $9.5 million in cash. Manta has annualized sales of approximately $8 million. Since the date of acquisition, the operating results for Manta have been included as a product line of Doble within the Company’s USG segment. 

During the second quarter of 2018, the Company paid a deferred payment of $1.6 million in connection with the 2016 acquisition of Plastique. 

Dividends 

A dividend of $0.08 per share, totaling $2.1 million, was paid on October 17, 2017 to stockholders of record as of October 3, 2017. A dividend of $0.08 per share, totaling $2.1 million, was paid on January 19, 2018 to stockholders of record as of January 4, 2018. Subsequent to March 31, 2018, a quarterly dividend of $0.08 per share, totaling $2.1 million, was paid on April 18, 2018 to stockholders of record as of April 3, 2018. 

OUTLOOK 

Management’s current expectations for 2018 remain consistent with the details outlined in the Business Outlook presented in the Company’s February 6, 2018 release. 

On a quarterly basis, Management continues to expect 2018 revenues and EPS to reflect a profile similar to 2017, including EPS being more second-half weighted. Third quarter 2018 EPS is expected to be in the range of $0.68 to $0.73 per share. Management expects 2018 GAAP EPS in the range of $3.55 to $3.65 per share and Adjusted EPS in the range of $2.65 to $2.75 per share, adjusting for the first quarter 2018 incremental net tax benefits resulting from U.S. Tax Reform and the second quarter 2018 cost reduction charges in the USG and Filtration segments. 


CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

Management has evaluated the accounting policies used in the preparation of the Company’s financial statements and related notes and believes those policies to be reasonable and appropriate. Certain of these accounting policies require the application of significant judgment by Management in selecting appropriate assumptions for calculating financial estimates. By their nature, these judgments are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty. These judgments are based on historical experience, trends in the industry, information provided by customers and information available from other outside sources, as appropriate. The most significant areas involving Management judgments and estimates may be found in the Critical Accounting Policies section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis and in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017. 

OTHER MATTERS 

Contingencies 

As a normal incident of the business in which the Company is engaged, various claims, charges and litigation are asserted or commenced against the Company. Additionally, the Company is currently involved in various stages of investigation and remediation relating to environmental matters. In the opinion of Management, the aggregate costs involved in the resolution of these matters, and final judgments, if any, which might be rendered against the Company, are adequately reserved, are covered by insurance, or would not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results from operations, capital expenditures, or competitive position. 

FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS 

Statements contained in this Form 10-Q regarding future events and the Company’s future results that reflect or are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts, projections or assumptions about the Company’s performance and the industries in which the Company operates are considered “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Federal securities laws. These include, but are not necessarily limited to, statements about: the amount and timing of future sales, revenues, cash flows, Adjusted EPS and EPS; the adequacy of the Company’s credit facility and the Company’s ability to increase it; the outcome of current litigation, claims and charges; income taxation of foreign earnings and the future repatriation, reinvestment or distribution of foreign earnings; future income tax liabilities and effective tax rate; timing of the repayment of the current portion of the Company’s long-term debt; changes in the amount of unrecognized tax benefits; the recognition and timing of costs related to share-based compensation arrangements; returns on retirement plan assets; estimates or projections made in connection with the Company’s accounting policies; market risks relating to the Company’s operations and changes in interest rates; the extent to which hedging gains or losses are offset by losses or gains on related underlying exposures; the Company’s ability to hedge against or otherwise manage them through the use of derivative financial instruments; the impact of ASU 2017-12 which amends the hedge accounting model to enable entities to better align the economics of risk management activities and financial reporting; and any other statements contained herein which are not strictly historical. Words such as expects, anticipates, targets, goals, projects, intends, plans, believes, estimates, variations of such words, and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. 

Investors are cautioned that such statements are only predictions and speak only as of the date of this Form 10-Q, and the Company undertakes no duty to update them except as may be required by applicable laws or regulations. The Company’s actual results in the future may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements due to risks and uncertainties that exist in the Company’s operations and business environment, including but not limited to those described in Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017, and the following: the impacts of natural disasters on the Company’s operations and those of the Company’s customers and suppliers; the timing and content of future contract awards or customer orders; the appropriation, allocation and availability of Government funds; the termination for convenience of Government and other customer contracts or orders; financial exposure in connection with Company guarantees of certain Aclara contracts; weakening of economic conditions in served markets; the success of the Company’s competitors; changes in customer demands or customer insolvencies; competition; intellectual property rights; technical difficulties; the availability of selected acquisitions; delivery delays or defaults by customers; performance issues with key customers, suppliers and subcontractors; material changes in the costs and availability of certain raw materials; labor disputes; final analysis of the impacts of the TCJA; changes in U.S. tax laws and regulations; other changes in laws and regulations including but not limited to changes in accounting standards and foreign taxation; changes in interest rates; costs relating to environmental matters arising from current or former facilities; uncertainty regarding the ultimate resolution of current disputes, claims, litigation or arbitration; and the integration of recently acquired businesses. 

ITEM 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 

Market risks relating to the Company’s operations result primarily from changes in interest rates and changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The Company is exposed to market risk related to changes in interest rates and selectively uses derivative financial instruments, including forward contracts and swaps, to manage these risks. During 2016, the Company entered into several forward contracts to purchase pounds sterling to hedge two deferred payments due in connection with the acquisition of Plastique. During the first quarter of 2018, the Company entered into three interest rate swaps with a notional amount of $150 million to hedge some of its exposure to variability in future LIBOR-based interest payments on variable rate debt. In addition, the Company’s Canadian subsidiary Morgan Schaffer enters into foreign exchange contracts to manage foreign currency risk as a portion of their revenue is denominated in U.S. dollars. All derivative instruments are reported on the balance sheet at fair value. For derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges, the gain or loss on the respective derivative is deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income until recognized in earnings with the underlying hedged item. The interest rate swaps entered into during the first quarter of 2018 were not designated as cash flow hedges and, therefore, the gain or loss on the derivative is reflected in earnings each period. There has been no material change to the Company’s market risks since September 30, 2017. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of this Report for a summary of the Company’s outstanding derivative financial instruments as of March 31, 2018. Refer to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017 for further discussion about market risk. 


ITEM 4. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 

The Company carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of Management, including the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based upon that evaluation, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of that date. Disclosure controls and procedures are controls and procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in Company reports filed or submitted under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms. There has been no change in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act) during the period covered by this report that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. 


PART II. OTHER INFORMATION 

ITEM 6. EXHIBITS 




SIGNATURE 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 

   ESCO TECHNOLOGIES INC. 


   Gary E. Muenster 

   Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

   (As duly authorized officer and principal accounting and financial officer of the registrant)  


