UNITED STATES

 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, D. C. 20549 


QUARTERLY Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934  

For the quarterly period ended December 31, 2018 

Commission File Number I-4383 



NEW YORK 




233 Ballston Avenue, Saratoga Springs, New York 12866 




Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. 

S Yes £ No 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). 

S Yes £ No 


Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company. 

£ Yes S No 



Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q 

I N D E X 


Index   

PART I: FINANCIAL INFORMATION 


Balance Sheets 


The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.  


Index   


Statements of Comprehensive Income (Unaudited) 

Three and Six Months Ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 


The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. 


Index   


Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited) 

Six Months Ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 


The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. 


Index   


Notes to Financial Statements (Unaudited) 

Note 1. Basis of Presentation 

In the opinion of management the accompanying unaudited financial statements contain all adjustments (consisting of only normal recurring adjustments) necessary for a fair presentation of the results for such periods. The results for any interim period are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full fiscal year. Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles have been condensed or omitted. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to revenue recognition, inventories, income taxes, and stock-based compensation. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. These financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company's most recent audited financial statements included in its report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2018. Certain reclassifications may have been made to the prior year financial statements to conform to the current year presentation. 

Note 2. Investment Securities 





The carrying amounts of financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, short term investment securities, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued expenses, approximated fair value as of December 31, 2018 and June 30, 2018 because of the immediate or short-term maturity of these financial instruments. 



The portfolio is diversified and highly liquid and primarily consists of investment grade fixed income instruments. At December 31, 2018, the Company did not have any investments in individual securities that have been in a continuous loss position considered to be other than temporary. 


Index   



Note 3. Net Income per Share 

Basic net income per share excludes dilution and is computed by dividing net income available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted net income per share reflects the potential dilution that could occur if securities or other contracts to issue common stock were exercised or converted into common stock or resulted in the issuance of common stock that then shared in the income of the Company. The computation of weighted-average common shares outstanding, assuming dilution, excluded options to purchase 2,500 and 150,550 shares of our common stock for the three and six months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, as the effect of including them would be anti-dilutive. As unearned ESOP shares are released or committed-to-be-released the shares become outstanding for earnings-per-share computations. 

Note 4. Stock Based Compensation 

The Company follows ASC 718 in establishing standards for the accounting for transactions in which an entity exchanges its equity instruments for goods or services, as well as transactions in which an entity incurs liabilities in exchange for goods or services that are based on the fair value of the entity’s equity instruments or that may be settled by the issuance of those equity instruments. ASC 718 requires that the cost resulting from all share-based payment transactions be recognized in the financial statements based on the fair value of the share-based payment. ASC 718 establishes fair value as the measurement objective in accounting for share-based payment transactions with employees, except for equity instruments held by employee share ownership plans.  

Total stock-based compensation expense recognized in the statements of comprehensive income for the three-month periods ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 was $40,504 and $29,048, respectively, before income taxes. The related total deferred tax benefits were approximately $2,246 and $1,602 for the same periods. Total stock-based compensation expense recognized in the statements of comprehensive income for the six-month periods ended December, 2018 and 2017, was $77,876 and $50,470, respectively, before income taxes. The related total deferred tax benefits were approximately $4,280 and $2,771 for the same periods. 

As of December 31, 2018, there was approximately $292,100 of unrecognized compensation cost related to stock option awards that is expected to be recognized as expense over the next 2.00 years. The total deferred tax benefit related to these awards is expected to be approximately $16,128. 



Index   

ASC 718 requires the use of a valuation model to calculate the fair value of stock-based awards. The Company has elected to use the Black-Scholes option valuation model, which incorporates various assumptions including those for dividend yield, volatility, expected life and interest rates. 

The table below outlines the weighted average assumptions that the Company used to calculate the fair value of each option award for the six months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017. 


The Company declares regular dividends quarterly and declared and paid regular cash dividends of $0.50 per share and a special cash dividend of $1.00 per share for the six months ended December 31, 2018. The company declared and paid regular cash dividends of $0.50 per share for the six months ended December 31, 2017. Expected stock price volatility is based on the historical volatility of the Company’s stock. The risk-free interest rate is based on the implied yield available on U.S. Treasury issues with an equivalent term approximating the expected life of the options. The expected option life (in years) represents the estimated period of time until exercise and is based on actual historical experience. 



The aggregate intrinsic value in the table above represents the total pretax intrinsic value (the difference between the closing sale price of the Company’s common stock as reported on the NYSE American on December 31, 2018 and the exercise price, multiplied by the number of in-the-money options) that would have been received by the option holders if all option holders had exercised their options on December 31, 2018. This amount changes based on the fair market value of the Company’s common stock. The total intrinsic values of the options exercised during the six months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 were $64,420 and $0, respectively. 




Index   

Note 5. Commitments and Contingencies 

The Company from time to time, enters into standby letters of credit agreements with financial institutions primarily relating to the guarantee of future performance on certain contracts. Contingent liabilities on outstanding standby letters of credit agreements aggregated to zero at December 31, 2018 and June 30, 2018. The Company, as a U.S. Government contractor, is subject to audits, reviews, and investigations by the U.S. Government related to its negotiation and performance of government contracts and its accounting for such contracts. Failure to comply with applicable U.S. Government standards by a contractor may result in suspension from eligibility for award of any new government contract and a guilty plea or conviction may result in debarment from eligibility for awards. The government may, in certain cases, also terminate existing contracts, recover damages, and impose other sanctions and penalties. As a result of contract audits the Company will determine a range of possible outcomes and in accordance with ASC 450 “Contingencies” the Company will accrue amounts within a range that appears to be its best estimate of a possible outcome. Adjustments are made to accruals, if any, periodically based on current information. 

We are party to various litigation matters and claims arising from time to time in the ordinary course of business. While the results of such matters cannot be predicted with certainty, we believe that the final outcome of such matters will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 

Note 6. Recently Issued Accounting Standards 

Recent Accounting Pronouncements Adopted 

Effective July 1, 2018, we adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC) 606 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers”, which requires entities to assess the products or services promised in contracts with customers at contract inception to determine the appropriate unit at which to record revenues. Revenue is recognized when control of the promised products or services is transferred to customers at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for those products or services. We adopted ASC 606 using the modified retrospective method, which means, using the allowed practical expedient, we applied the new standard to open contracts at June 30, 2018. We reviewed remaining obligations as of the effective date and determined no adjustment was required to the opening balance of retained earnings. Under the modified retrospective method, prior period revenue is not restated for comparative periods. As a result of the adoption, we reclassified customer advance payments from inventory to contract liabilities. Contract liabilities were $6,054 and $102,924 as of December 31, 2018 and June 30, 2018, respectively. The decrease in contract liabilities is due to the recognition of revenue related to certain amounts previously collected and included in contract liabilities. The company used the practical expedient to expense incremental costs incurred to obtain a contract when the contract term is less than one year. 

Significant judgment is required in determining the satisfaction of performance obligations. Revenues from our performance obligations are satisfied over time using the output method which considers the appraisal of results achieved and milestones reached or units delivered based on contractual shipment terms, typically shipping point. Revenue is recognized when the customer takes control of the product or services. The output method best depicts the transfer of control to the customer as the output method represents work completed. Control is typically transferred to the customer at shipping point as the company has a present right to payment, the customer has legal title to the asset, the customer has the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the asset, and in most instances the customer has accepted the asset. 

Total revenue recognized for the three and six months ended December 31, 2018 based on units delivered totaled $6,020,415 and $12,873,185, respectively, compared to $10,403,395 and $17,470,048 for the same periods in 2017. Total revenue recognized for the three and six months ended December 31, 2018 based on milestones achieved totaled $1,282,694 and $2,767,323, respectively, compared to $1,127,710 and $1,557,480 for the same periods in 2017. 

The company offers a standard one-year product warranty. Product warranties offered by the company are classified as assurance-type warranties, which means, the warranty only guarantees that the good or service functions as promised. Based on this, the provided warranty is not considered to be a distinct performance obligation. The impact of variable consideration has been considered but none identified which would be required to be allocated to the transaction price as of December 31, 2018. Our payment terms are generally 30-60 days.  


Prior to the adoption of ASC 606, we recognized the majority of our revenues in accordance with ASC Topic 605 “Revenue Recognition”. Under this method, product sales were recognized based upon the terms which transferred title and risk of loss at a specified location, typically the shipping point, and sales under development contracts, were recognized using the milestone method of accounting. 


Index   

Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted 



Note 7. Employee Stock Ownership Plan 

The Company sponsors a leveraged employee stock ownership plan (the "ESOP") that covers all nonunion employees who work 1,000 or more hours per year and are employed on June 30. The Company makes annual contributions to the ESOP equal to the ESOP's debt service less dividends on unallocated shares received by the ESOP. All dividends on unallocated shares received by the ESOP are used to pay debt service. Dividends on allocated ESOP shares are recorded as a reduction of retained earnings. As the debt is repaid, shares are released and allocated to active employees, based on the proportion of debt service paid in the year. The Company accounts for its ESOP in accordance with FASB ASC 718-40. Accordingly, the shares purchased by the ESOP are reported as Unearned ESOP shares in the statement of financial position. As shares are released or committed-to-be-released, the Company reports compensation expense equal to the current average market price of the shares, and the shares become outstanding for earnings-per-share (EPS) computations. ESOP compensation expense was $102,448 and $89,578 for the three-month periods ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. ESOP compensation expense was $203,809 and $179,038 for the six-month periods ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 



The Company may at times be required to repurchase shares at the ESOP participants’ request at the fair market value. During the three and six months ended December 31, 2018 the Company did not repurchase any shares held by the ESOP. During the three and six months ended December 31, 2017 the Company repurchased 4,798 shares previously held in the ESOP for $109,694. 

The ESOP allows for eligible participants to take whole share distributions from the plan on specific dates in accordance with the provision of the plan. Share distributions from the ESOP during the six months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 totaled 17,279 and 8,103, respectively. 


Index   

Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

Overview 


Espey began operations after incorporation in New York in 1928. We strive to remain competitive as a leader in high power energy conversion and transformer solutions through the design and manufacture of new and improved products by using advanced and “cutting edge” electronics technologies. 


Espey services include design and development to specification, build to print, design services, design studies, environmental testing services, metal fabrication, painting services, and development of automatic testing equipment. Espey is vertically integrated, meaning that the Company produces individual components (including inductors), populates printed circuit boards, fabricates metalwork, paints, wires, qualifies, and fully tests items, mechanically, electrically and environmentally, in house. Portions of the manufacturing and testing process are subcontracted to vendors from time to time. 


There is competition in all classes of products manufactured by the Company, ranging from divisions of the largest electronic companies, to many small companies. The Company's sales do not represent a significant share of the industry's market for any class of its products. The principal methods of competition for electronic products of both a military and industrial nature include, among other factors, price, product performance, the experience of the particular company and history of its dealings in such products. 

Our business is not seasonal. However, the concentration of our business in the rail industry, and in equipment for military applications and industrial applications, and our customer concentrations expose us to on-going associated risks. These risks include, without limitation, requirements for power supplies in the rail industry, dependence on appropriations from the United States Government and the governments of foreign nations, program allocations, the potential of governmental termination of orders for convenience, and the general strength of the industry sectors in which our customers transact business. 

In order to compete effectively for new business, in some cases we have invested in upfront design costs, thereby reducing initial profitability as a means of procuring new long-term programs. As part of our strategy, we adjust our pricing in order to achieve a balance which enables us both to retain repeat programs while being more competitive in bidding on new programs. 

In order to maintain a balanced business, we are continuing to place an emphasis on securing “build to print” opportunities, which will allow production work to go directly to the manufacturing floor, limiting the impact on our engineering staff. This effort will keep our manufacturing team busy while the products being developed transition to production. 


Index   


Successful conversion of engineering program backlog into sales is largely dependent on the execution and completion of our engineering design efforts. It is not uncommon to experience technical or scheduling delays which arise from time to time as a result of, among other reasons, design complexity, the availability of personnel with the requisite expertise, and the requirements to obtain customer approval at various milestones. Cost overruns which may arise from technical and schedule delays could negatively impact the timing of the conversion of backlog into sales, or the profitability of such sales. While recently, we have been experiencing some technical and schedule delays with our major development programs, these delays are being resolved as they arise and we do not currently expect any negative impact on our customer order fulfillment projections for fiscal year 2019. Engineering programs in both the funded and unfunded portions of the current backlog aggregate $6.7 million.  

Management expects revenues in fiscal year 2019 to be higher than revenues during fiscal year 2018 but expects the gross profit margin to be lower in fiscal year 2019 than the gross profit margin during fiscal year 2018. This expectation is driven primarily by lower profit margin orders already in our backlog that will be shipped in the current fiscal year. As market factors including competition and product costs impact gross profit margins, management will continue to evaluate our sales strategy, employment levels, and facility costs. 

New orders received in the first six months of fiscal year 2019 were approximately $13.4 million as compared to $14.3 million of new orders received in the first six months of fiscal 2018. It is presently anticipated that a minimum of $24.4 million of orders comprising the December 31, 2018 backlog will be filled during the fiscal year ending June 30, 2019. The minimum of $24.4 million does not include any shipments, which may be made against orders subsequently received during the fiscal year ending June 30, 2019. The estimate of the December 31, 2018 backlog to be shipped in fiscal year 2019 is subject to future events, which may cause the amount of the backlog actually shipped to differ from such estimate. 

In addition to the backlog, the Company currently has outstanding opportunities representing approximately $60.0 million in the aggregate as of January 31, 2019 for both repeat and new programs. The outstanding quotations encompass various new and previously manufactured power supplies, transformers, and subassemblies. However, there can be no assurance that the Company will acquire any of the anticipated orders described above, many of which are subject to allocations of the United States defense spending and factors affecting the defense industry. 

A significant portion of the Company’s business is the production of military and industrial electronic equipment for use by the U.S. and foreign governments and certain industrial customers. Net sales to two significant customers represented 49.4% of the Company’s total sales for the three-month period ended December 31, 2018 and net sales to three significant customers represented 63.2% of the Company's total sales for the three-month period ended December 31, 2017. Net sales to two significant customers represented 54.4% and 61.0% of the Company’s total sales for the six-month period ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. This high concentration level with these customers presents significant risk. A loss of one of these customers or programs related to these customers could significantly impact the Company. Historically, a small number of customers have accounted for a large percentage of the Company’s total sales in any given fiscal year. 


Index   

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

Management believes our most critical accounting policies include revenue recognition and cost estimation on our contracts. 

Revenue 


We account for a contract after it has been approved by all parties to the arrangement, the rights of the parties are identified, payment terms are identified, the contract has commercial substance, and collectability of consideration is probable. We assess each contract at its inception to determine whether it should be combined with other contracts. When making this determination, we consider factors such as whether two or more contracts were negotiated and executed at or near the same time, or were negotiated with an overall profit objective. 

We evaluate the products or services promised in each contract at inception to determine whether the contract should be accounted for as having one or more performance obligation. Significant judgment is required in determining performance obligations. We determine the transaction price for each contract based on the consideration we expect to receive for the products or services being provided under the contract. The transaction price for each performance obligation is based on the estimated standalone selling price of the product or service underlying each performance obligation. Transaction prices on our contracts subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR) are typically based on estimated costs plus a reasonable profit margin. 

We recognize revenue using the output method based on the appraisal of results achieved and milestones reached or units delivered based on contractual shipment terms, typically shipping point. 

Inventory 

Inventoried work relating to contracts in process and work in process is valued at actual production cost, including factory overhead incurred to date. Contract costs include material, subcontract costs, labor, and an allocation of overhead costs. Work in process represents spare units and parts and other inventory items acquired or produced to service units previously sold or to meet anticipated future orders. Provision for losses on contracts is made when the existence of such losses becomes probable and estimable. The provision for losses on contracts is included in other accrued expenses on the Company’s balance sheet. The costs attributed to units delivered under contracts are based on the estimated average cost of all units expected to be produced. Certain contracts are expected to extend beyond twelve months. 

The estimation of total cost at completion of a contract is subject to numerous variables involving contract costs and estimates as to the length of time to complete the contract. Given the significance of the estimation processes and judgments described above, it is possible that materially different amounts of expected sales and contract costs could be recorded if different assumptions were used, based on changes in circumstances, in the estimation process. When a change in expected sales value or estimated cost is determined, changes are reflected in current period earnings. 

Contract Liabilities 

Contract liabilities include advance payments and billings in excess of revenue recognized. 


Index   

Results of Operations 

Net sales decreased for the three months ended December 31, 2018 to $7,303,109 as compared to $11,531,105 for the same period in 2017. Net sales for the six months ended December 31, 2018 decreased to $15,640,508 as compared to $19,027,528 for the same period in 2017. For the three months ended December 31, 2018, the decline in net sales is primarily due to a decrease in power supply shipments on a specific military contract and a decrease in shipments supporting the rail industry. For the six months ended December 31, 2018, the decrease in net sales is primarily due to the timing of power supply shipments related to a specific military contract which had significant shipments in the prior fiscal year, offset in part by an increase in build to print sales. This decline in both periods is largely due to timing of shipments based on customer contractual delivery dates and shipments that have not been made due to engineering design changes required to meet customer requirements, certain supplier product non-conformances and an increase in lead times for certain electronic components due to industry shortages and volatility within the power electronics industry. We are currently working closely with our customers and suppliers to execute on our current past due deliveries and we do not expect this situation to impact future business. 

Gross profits for the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 were $1,516,235 and $3,075,598, respectively. Gross profit as a percentage of sales was 20.8% and 26.7%, for the same periods, respectively. For the six months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, gross profits were $2,509,169 and $4,536,752, respectively. Gross profit as a percentage of sales was 16.0% and 23.8%, for the same periods, respectively. The primary factors in determining the change in gross profit and net income are overall sales levels and product mix. The gross profits on mature products and build to print contracts are typically higher as compared to products which are still in the engineering development stage or in early stages of production. In the case of the latter, the Company can incur what it refers to as “loss contracts,” meaning engineering design contracts in which the Company invests with the objective of developing future product sales. In any given accounting period the mix of product shipments between higher margin programs and less mature programs, and expenditures associated with loss contracts, has a significant impact on gross profit and net income. The gross profit percentage decreased in the three and six months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the same period in 2017 primarily due to the impact of incurred spending related to a specific engineering design contract. This increase in spending reduced the gross profit percentage by 7.2% and 8.0% for the three and six month periods, respectively. 

Selling, general and administrative expenses were $1,295,687 for the three months ended December 31, 2018; an increase of $313,317, compared to the three months ended December 31, 2017. Selling, general and administrative expenses were $2,305,231 for the six months ended December 31, 2018; an increase of $444,041 compared to the six months ended December 31, 2017. The increase for the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the same period in 2017 relates primarily to the increase in employee compensation costs associated with added program management personnel supporting the Company’s sales backlog, professional services, and other miscellaneous expenses. The increase for the six months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the same period in 2017 relates primarily to the increases described for the three month period, however, for the six-month period ended December 31, 2018, the increases were offset, in part, by a reduction in travel, and incurred marketing costs. 

Other income for the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 was $53,361 and $43,289, respectively. Other income for the six months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 was $129,432 and $84,685, respectively. The increase for the three and six months is primarily due an increase in interest income resulting from the gradual increase in current yield percentages earned on investment securities. Interest income is a function of the level of investments and investment strategies which generally tend to be conservative.  

The Company’s effective tax rates for the three and six months ended December 31, 2018, were 20.5% and 16.2%, respectively, compared to 24.4% and 25.5% for the three and six months ended December 31, 2017. The statutory tax rate was reduced from 34% to 21% under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act’) effective on January 1, 2018. The effective tax rate in fiscal 2019 is less than the statutory tax rate mainly due to the benefit derived from the ESOP dividends paid on allocated shares and for the tax benefit received in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 from the exercise of stock options. The effective tax rate in fiscal 2018 is less than the statutory tax rate mainly due to the benefit the Company received on its “qualified production activities” under The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 which expired after the end of fiscal 2018 and the benefit derived from the ESOP dividends paid on allocated shares. 

Net income for the three months ended December 31, 2018, was $217,758 or $0.09 per share both basic and diluted, respectively compared to $1,614,871 or $0.69 per share both basic and diluted, for the three months ended December 31, 2017. Net income for the six months ended December 31, 2018, was $279,430 or $0.12 per share both basic and diluted compared to $2,057,635 or $0.88 per share both basic and diluted for the six months ended December 31, 2017. The decrease in net income per share for the three and six months ended December 31, 2018 was due to lower sales, lower gross profit and an increase in selling, general and administrative expenses when compared to the same periods in 2017 as discussed above. These decreases were mitigated, in part, by an increase in investment income and a reduction in income taxes resulting primarily from the decrease in the Company’s effective tax rate resulting from the decrease in the statutory tax rate effective January 1, 2018. 


Index   

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

The Company's working capital is an appropriate indicator of the liquidity of its business, and during the past two fiscal years, the Company, when possible, has funded all of its operations with cash flows resulting from operating activities and when necessary from its existing cash and investments. The Company did not borrow any funds during the last two fiscal years. Management has available a $3,000,000 line of credit to help fund further growth or working capital needs, if necessary, but does not anticipate the need for any borrowed funds in the foreseeable future. Contingent liabilities on outstanding standby letters of credit agreements aggregated to zero at December 31, 2018 and 2017. The line of credit is reviewed annually in November for renewal by December 1st. 

The Company's working capital as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 was approximately $26.7 million and $30.4 million, respectively. During the three and six-month period ended December 31, 2018, the Company did not repurchase any shares of its common stock from the Company’s Employee Retirement Plan and Trust (“ESOP”). During the three and six-months ended December 31, 2017 the Company repurchased 4,798 shares of its common stock from the ESOP for a purchase price of $109,694. Under existing authorizations from the Company's Board of Directors, as of December 31, 2018, management is authorized to purchase an additional $876,297 of Company stock. 



Net cash used in operating activities fluctuates between periods primarily as a result of differences in sales and net income, provision for income taxes, the timing of the collection of accounts receivable, purchase of inventory, and payment of accounts payable. The increase in cash used in operating activities compared to the prior year primarily relates to a decrease in net income and income tax payable and the increase in inventories attributed to the sales volume and backlog increases offset, in part, by a decrease in prepaid expenses and other current assets, the collection of trade receivables and the increase in accounts payable. Net cash provided by investing activities increased in the six months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the same period in 2017 is primarily due to an increase in maturing investments offset, in part, by an increase in spending for the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The increase in cash used in financing activities in the current period is primarily related to the cash expended for the special dividend totaling $1.00 per share declared and paid in fiscal 2019 offset, in part, by proceeds received from the exercise of stock options during the current fiscal year. 

The Company currently believes that the cash flow generated from operations and when necessary, from cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet its long-term funding requirements for the foreseeable future. 

During the six months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, the Company expended $354,933 and $185,190, respectively, for plant improvements and new equipment. The Company has budgeted approximately $750,000 for new equipment and plant improvements in fiscal year 2019. Management anticipates that the funds required will be available from current operations. 

Management believes that the Company's reserve for bad debts of $3,000 is adequate given the customers with whom the Company does business. Historically, bad debt expense has been minimal. 


Index   

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE "SAFE HARBOR" PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE 

SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 

This report contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The terms "believe," "anticipate," "intend," "goal," "expect," and similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements represent the Company's current expectations or beliefs concerning future events. The matters covered by these statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements, including the Company's dependence on timely development, introduction and customer acceptance of new products, the impact of competition and price erosion, supply and manufacturing constraints, potential new orders from customers, the impact of cyber or other security threats or other disruptions to our business, and other risks and uncertainties. The foregoing list should not be construed as exhaustive, and the Company disclaims any obligation subsequently to revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements or to reflect the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events. The Company wishes to caution readers not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. 

Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

The Company is a smaller reporting company as defined under Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 12b-2. Pursuant to the exemption available to smaller reporting company issuers under Item 305 of Regulation S-K, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, the Company is not required to provide the information for this item. 

Item 4. Controls and Procedures 




Index   

PART II: Other Information and Signatures 

 Item 1.Legal Proceedings 

We are party to various litigation matters and claims arising from time to time in the ordinary course of business. While the results of such matters cannot be predicted with certainty, we believe that the final outcome of such matters will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  

 Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds 

 (a)Securities Sold -None 


 (1)Pursuant to a prior Board of Directors authorization, as of December 31, 2018 the Company can repurchase up to $876,297 of its common stock pursuant to an ongoing plan. 

 Item 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities 

None 

 Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures 

Not applicable 

 Item 5.Other Information 

None 

 Item 6.Exhibits 

 31.1Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

 31.2Certification of the Principal Financial Officer and Executive Vice President pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

 32.1Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

 32.2Certification of the Principal Financial Officer and Executive Vice President pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 


Index   

S I G N A T U R E S 



