UNITED STATES  

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, D. C. 20549 


QUARTERLY Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934  

For the quarterly period ended September 30, 2019 

Commission File Number I-4383 



233 Ballston Avenue, Saratoga Springs, New York 12866 




Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. 


Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). 



Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company. 




Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q 

I N D E X 


Index   

PART I: FINANCIAL INFORMATION 


Balance Sheets 


The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.  


Index   


Statements of Comprehensive Income (Unaudited) 

Three Months Ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 


The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.  


Index   


Statements of Changes in Stockholders' Equity (Unaudited) 


The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. 


Index   


Statements of Changes in Stockholders' Equity (Unaudited) 


The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. 


Index   


Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited) 

Three Months Ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 


The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. 


Index   


Notes to Financial Statements (Unaudited) 

Note 1. Basis of Presentation 


Note 2. Investment Securities 





The carrying amounts of financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, short term investment securities, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued expenses, approximated fair value as of September 30, 2019 and June 30, 2019 because of the immediate or short-term maturity of these financial instruments. 


The portfolio is diversified and highly liquid and primarily consists of investment grade fixed income instruments. At September 30, 2019, the Company did not have any investments in individual securities that have been in a continuous loss position considered to be other than temporary. 


Index   


Note 3. Net Income per Share 

Basic net income per share excludes dilution and is computed by dividing net income available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted net income per share reflects the potential dilution that could occur if securities or other contracts to issue common stock were exercised or converted into common stock or resulted in the issuance of common stock that then shared in the income of the Company. The computation of weighted-average common shares outstanding, assuming dilution, excluded options to purchase 190,639 and 25,400 shares of our common stock for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, as the effect of including them would be anti-dilutive. As unearned ESOP shares are released or committed-to-be-released the shares become outstanding for earnings-per-share computations. 

Note 4. Stock Based Compensation 

The Company follows ASC 718 in establishing standards for the accounting for transactions in which an entity exchanges its equity instruments for goods or services, as well as transactions in which an entity incurs liabilities in exchange for goods or services that are based on the fair value of the entity’s equity instruments or that may be settled by the issuance of those equity instruments. ASC 718 requires that the cost resulting from all share-based payment transactions be recognized in the financial statements based on the fair value of the share-based payment. ASC 718 establishes fair value as the measurement objective in accounting for share-based payment transactions with employees, except for equity instruments held by employee share ownership plans.  

Total stock-based compensation expense recognized in the statements of comprehensive income for the three-month periods ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 was $47,176 and $37,371, respectively, before income taxes. The related total deferred tax benefits were $2,578 and $2,034 for the same periods. 

As of September 30, 2019, there was $152,793 of unrecognized compensation cost related to stock option awards that is expected to be recognized as expense over the next 1.50 years. The total deferred tax benefit related to these awards is expected to be $8,426. 


ASC 718 requires the use of a valuation model to calculate the fair value of stock-based awards. The Company has elected to use the Black-Scholes option valuation model, which incorporates various assumptions including those for dividend yield, volatility, expected life and interest rates. 


Index   

The table below outlines the weighted average assumptions that the Company used to calculate the fair value of each option award for the three months ended September 30, 2018. There were no options awarded for the three months ended September 30, 2019. 


The Company declares regular dividends quarterly and declared and paid a first quarter regular cash dividends of $0.25 per share for the three months ended September 30, 2019. The company declared a regular cash dividends of $0.25 per share and a special cash dividend of $1.00 per share for the three months ended September 30, 2018. Expected stock price volatility is based on the historical volatility of the Company’s stock. The risk-free interest rate is based on the implied yield available on U.S. Treasury issues with an equivalent term approximating the expected life of the options. The expected option term (in years) represents the estimated period of time until exercise and is based on actual historical experience. 


The aggregate intrinsic value in the table above represents the total pretax intrinsic value (the difference between the closing sale price of the Company’s common stock as reported on the NYSE American on September 30, 2019 and the exercise price, multiplied by the number of in-the-money options) that would have been received by the option holders if all option holders had exercised their options on September 30, 2019. This amount changes based on the fair market value of the Company’s common stock. The total intrinsic values of the options exercised during the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 were $263 and $64,420, respectively. 



Index   

Note 5. Commitments and Contingencies 

The Company from time to time, enters into standby letters of credit agreements with financial institutions primarily relating to the guarantee of future performance on certain contracts. Contingent liabilities on outstanding standby letters of credit agreements aggregated to zero at September 30, 2019 and June 30, 2019. The Company, as a U.S. Government contractor, is subject to audits, reviews, and investigations by the U.S. Government related to its negotiation and performance of government contracts and its accounting for such contracts. Failure to comply with applicable U.S. Government standards by a contractor may result in suspension from eligibility for award of any new government contract and a guilty plea or conviction may result in debarment from eligibility for awards. The government may, in certain cases, also terminate existing contracts, recover damages, and impose other sanctions and penalties. As a result of contract audits the Company will determine a range of possible outcomes and in accordance with ASC 450 “Contingencies” the Company will accrue amounts within a range that appears to be its best estimate of a possible outcome. Adjustments are made to accruals, if any, periodically based on current information. 

We are party to various litigation matters and claims arising from time to time in the ordinary course of business. While the results of such matters cannot be predicted with certainty, we believe that the final outcome of such matters will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 


Effective July 1, 2018, we adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 606 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers”, which requires entities to assess the products or services promised in contracts with customers at contract inception to determine the appropriate unit at which to record revenues. Revenue is recognized when control of the promised products or services is transferred to customers at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for those products or services. We adopted ASC 606 using the modified retrospective method, which means, using the allowed practical expedient, we applied the new standard to open contracts at June 30, 2018. We reviewed remaining obligations as of the effective date and determined no adjustment was required to the opening balance of retained earnings. Under the modified retrospective method, prior period revenue is not restated for comparative periods. As a result of the adoption, we reclassified customer advance payments from inventory to contract liabilities. Contract liabilities were $666,834 and $6,054 as of September 30, 2019 and June 30, 2019, respectively. The increase in contract liabilities is primarily due to cash collected from a progress payment related to a specific contract. The company used the practical expedient to expense incremental costs incurred to obtain a contract when the contract term is less than one year. 

Significant judgment is required in determining the satisfaction of performance obligations. Revenues from our performance obligations are satisfied over time using the output method which considers the appraisal of results achieved and milestones reached or units delivered based on contractual shipment terms, typically shipping point. Revenue is recognized when the customer takes control of the product or services. The output method best depicts the transfer of control to the customer as the output method represents work completed. Control is typically transferred to the customer at shipping point as the company has a present right to payment, the customer has legal title to the asset, the customer has the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the asset, and in most instances the customer has accepted the asset. 

Total revenue recognized for the three months ended September 30, 2019 based on units delivered was $5,118,314 compared to $6,852,770 for the same period in fiscal year 2019. Total revenue recognized for the three months ended September 30, 2019 based on milestones achieved was $805,505 compared to $1,484,629 for the same periods in fiscal year 2019. 

The company offers a standard one-year product warranty. Product warranties offered by the company are classified as assurance-type warranties, which means, the warranty only guarantees that the good or service functions as promised. Based on this, the provided warranty is not considered to be a distinct performance obligation. The impact of variable consideration has been considered but none identified which would be required to be allocated to the transaction price as of September 30, 2019. Our payment terms are generally 30-60 days.  



Index   

Note 7. Recently Issued Accounting Standards 

Recent Accounting Pronouncements Adopted 


Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted 


Note 8. Employee Stock Ownership Plan 

The Company sponsors a leveraged employee stock ownership plan (the "ESOP") that covers all nonunion employees who work 1,000 or more hours per year and are employed on June 30. The Company makes annual contributions to the ESOP equal to the ESOP's debt service less dividends on unallocated shares received by the ESOP. All dividends on unallocated shares received by the ESOP are used to pay debt service. Dividends on allocated ESOP shares are recorded as a reduction of retained earnings. As the debt is repaid, shares are released and allocated to active employees, based on the proportion of debt service paid in the year. The Company accounts for its ESOP in accordance with FASB ASC 718-40. Accordingly, the shares purchased by the ESOP are reported as Unearned ESOP shares in the balance sheets and statement of changes in stockholders’ equity. As shares are released or committed-to-be-released, the Company reports compensation expense equal to the current average market price of the shares, and the shares become outstanding for earnings-per-share (EPS) computations. ESOP compensation expense was $87,833 and $101,361 for the three-month periods ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 


The Company may at times be required to repurchase shares at the ESOP participants’ request at the fair market value. During the three months ended September 30, 2019 the Company repurchased 333 shares previously held by the ESOP for $8,291. During the three months ended September 30, 2018 the Company did not repurchase any shares held in the ESOP. 

The ESOP allows for eligible participants to take whole share distributions from the plan on specific dates in accordance with the provision of the plan. There were no share distributions from the ESOP during the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018. 


Index   

Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

Overview 


Espey began operations after incorporation in New York in 1928. We strive to remain competitive as a leader in high power energy conversion and transformer solutions through the design and manufacture of new and improved products by using advanced and “cutting edge” electronics technologies. 


Espey services include design and development to specification, build to print, design services, design studies, environmental testing services, metal fabrication, painting services, and development of automatic testing equipment. Espey is vertically integrated, meaning that the Company produces individual components (including inductors), populates printed circuit boards, fabricates metalwork, paints, wires, qualifies, and fully tests items, mechanically, electrically and environmentally, in house. Portions of the manufacturing and testing process are subcontracted to vendors from time to time. 


There is competition in all classes of products manufactured by the Company, ranging from divisions of the largest electronic companies, to many small companies. The Company's sales do not represent a significant share of the industry's market for any class of its products. The principal methods of competition for electronic products of both a military and industrial nature include, among other factors, price, product performance, the experience of the particular company and history of its dealings in such products. 

Our business is not seasonal. However, the concentration of our business in the rail industry, and in equipment for military applications and industrial applications, and our customer concentrations expose us to on-going associated risks. These risks include, without limitation, fluctuating requirements for power supplies in the rail industry, dependence on appropriations from the United States Government and the governments of foreign nations, program allocations, the potential of governmental termination of orders for convenience, and the general strength of the industry sectors in which our customers transact business. 

In order to compete effectively for new business, in some cases we have invested in upfront design costs, thereby reducing initial profitability as a means of procuring new long-term programs. As part of our strategy, we adjust our pricing in order to achieve a balance which enables us both to retain repeat programs while being more competitive in bidding on new programs. 

In order to maintain a balanced business, we are continuing to place an emphasis on securing “build to print” opportunities, which will allow production work to go directly to the manufacturing floor, limiting the impact on our engineering staff. This effort will keep our manufacturing team busy while engineering development designs transition to production. 


Index   


Successful conversion of engineering program backlog into sales is largely dependent on the execution and completion of our engineering design efforts. It is not uncommon to experience technical or scheduling delays which arise from time to time as a result of, among other reasons, design complexity, the availability of personnel with the requisite expertise, and the requirements to obtain customer approval at various milestones. Cost overruns which may arise from technical and schedule delays could negatively impact the timing of the conversion of backlog into sales, or the profitability of such sales. We continue to experience technical and schedule delays with our major development programs. However, these delays are being resolved as they arise and we do not expect any negative impact on our customer order fulfillment projections for fiscal year 2020. Engineering programs in both the funded and unfunded portions of the current backlog aggregate $5.6 million.  

Management expects revenues in fiscal year 2020 to approximate revenues during fiscal year 2019 and expects the gross profit margin to be higher in fiscal year 2020 than the gross profit margin during fiscal year 2019. This expectation is driven primarily by orders already in our backlog that will be shipped in fiscal year 2020 with lower anticipated aggregate production costs than with the product mix shipped during fiscal 2019. As factors such as engineering delays, competition and product costs impact gross profit margins, management will continue to evaluate our sales strategy, employment levels, and facility costs. 

New orders received in the first three months of fiscal year 2020 were approximately $7.0 million as compared to $6.9 million of new orders received in the first three months of fiscal 2019. It is presently anticipated that a minimum of $29.2 million of orders comprising the September 30, 2019 backlog will be filled during the fiscal year ending June 30, 2020. The minimum of $29.2 million does not include any shipments, which may be made against orders subsequently received during the fiscal year ending June 30, 2020. The estimate of the September 30, 2019 backlog to be shipped in fiscal year 2020 is subject to future events, which may cause the amount of the backlog actually shipped to differ from such estimate. 

In addition to the backlog, the Company currently has outstanding opportunities representing approximately $55 million in the aggregate as of November 5, 2019 for both repeat and new programs. The outstanding quotations encompass various new and previously manufactured power supplies, transformers, and subassemblies. However, there can be no assurance that the Company will acquire any of the anticipated orders described above, many of which are subject to allocations of the United States defense spending and factors affecting the defense industry. 

A significant portion of the Company’s business is the production of military and industrial electronic equipment for use by the U.S. and foreign governments and certain industrial customers. Net sales to three significant customers represented 56.7% of the Company’s total sales for the three-month period ended September 30, 2019. Net sales to two significant customers represented 62.5% of the Company’s total sales for the three-month period ended September 30, 2018. This high concentration level with these customers presents significant risk. A loss of one of these customers or programs related to these customers could significantly impact the Company. Historically, a small number of customers have accounted for a large percentage of the Company’s total sales in any given fiscal year. 


Index   

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

Management believes our most critical accounting policies include revenue recognition and cost estimation on our contracts. 

Revenue 


We account for a contract after it has been approved by all parties to the arrangement, the rights of the parties are identified, payment terms are identified, the contract has commercial substance, and collectability of consideration is probable. We assess each contract at its inception to determine whether it should be combined with other contracts. When making this determination, we consider factors such as whether two or more contracts were negotiated and executed at or near the same time, or were negotiated with an overall profit objective. 

We evaluate the products or services promised in each contract at inception to determine whether the contract should be accounted for as having one or more performance obligations. Significant judgment is required in determining performance obligations. We determine the transaction price for each contract based on the consideration we expect to receive for the products or services being provided under the contract. The transaction price for each performance obligation is based on the estimated standalone selling price of the product or service underlying each performance obligation. Transaction prices on our contracts subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR) are typically based on estimated costs plus a reasonable profit margin. 

We recognize revenue using the output method based on the appraisal of results achieved and milestones reached or units delivered based on contractual shipment terms, typically shipping point. 

Inventory 

Raw materials are valued at the lower of cost (average cost) or net realizable value. Balances for slow-moving and obsolete inventory are reviewed on a regular basis by analyzing estimated demand, inventory on hand, sales levels, market conditions, and other information and reduce inventory balances based on this analysis. 

Inventoried work relating to contracts in process and work in process is valued at actual production cost, including factory overhead incurred to date. Contract costs include material, subcontract costs, labor, and an allocation of overhead costs. Work in process represents spare units and parts and other inventory items acquired or produced to service units previously sold or to meet anticipated future orders. Provision for losses on contracts is made when the existence of such losses becomes probable and estimable. The provision for losses on contracts is included in other accrued expenses on the Company’s balance sheet. The costs attributed to units delivered under contracts are based on the estimated average cost of all units expected to be produced. Certain contracts are expected to extend beyond twelve months. 

The estimation of total cost at completion of a contract is subject to numerous variables involving contract costs and estimates as to the length of time to complete the contract. Given the significance of the estimation processes and judgments described above, it is possible that materially different amounts of expected sales and contract costs could be recorded if different assumptions were used, based on changes in circumstances, in the estimation process. When a change in expected sales value or estimated cost is determined, the change is reflected in current period earnings. 


Index   

Contract Liabilities 

Contract liabilities include advance payments and billings in excess of revenue recognized. 

Results of Operations 

Net sales decreased for the three months ended September 30, 2019 to $5,923,819 as compared to $8,337,399 for the same period in 2018. The decrease in net sales is primarily due to a decrease in build to print sales. 

Our ability to ship product or to meet contractual milestones continues to be constrained by engineering design changes required to meet customer requirements, certain supplier product non-conformances and an increase in lead times for many parts, including certain electronic components due to industry shortages and volatility within the power electronics industry. We are currently working closely with our customers and suppliers to execute on our past due deliveries and we do not expect this situation to impact future business. 

Gross profits for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 were $1,136,348 and $992,934, respectively. Gross profit as a percentage of sales was 19.2% and 11.9%, for the same periods, respectively. The primary factors in determining the change in gross profit and net income are overall sales levels and product mix. The gross profits on mature products and build to print contracts are typically higher as compared to products which are still in the engineering development stage or in early stages of production. In the case of the latter, the Company can incur what it refers to as “loss contracts,” primarily on engineering design contracts in which the Company invests with the objective of developing future product sales. In any given accounting period the mix of product shipments between higher margin programs and less mature programs, and expenditures associated with loss contracts, has a significant impact on gross profit and net income. The gross profit percentage increased in the three months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the same period in 2018 primarily due to the decrease in incurred spending related to a specific engineering design contract when compared to the same period in 2018. 

Selling, general and administrative expenses were $1,084,212 for the three months ended September 30, 2019; an increase of $74,668, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018. The increase for the three months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the same period in fiscal year 2019 relates primarily to the increase in expenditures for conferences and training, travel and board of director’s fees. 

Other income for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 was $47,489 and $76,070, respectively. The decrease for the three months ended is primarily due to the reduction in investment securities offset, in part, by the gradual increase in the current yield percentages earned on the investment securities. Interest income is a function of the level of investments and investment strategies which generally tend to be conservative.  

The Company’s effective tax rate for the three months ended September 30, 2019, was an expense of 17.9%, compared to a benefit of 3.7% for the three months ended September 30, 2018. The effective tax rate in fiscal 2020 is less than the statutory tax rate mainly due to the benefit derived from the ESOP dividends paid on allocated shares. The effective tax rate in fiscal 2019 is less than the statutory tax rate mainly due to the benefit derived from the ESOP dividends paid on allocated shares. For the quarter ended September 30, 2018, the Company reported a benefit for income taxes resulting from a tax adjustment related to the exercise of stock options during the quarter. 

Net income for the three months ended September 30, 2019, was $81,776 or $0.03 per share, basic and diluted, compared to $61,671 or $0.03 per share, basic and diluted, for the three months ended September 30, 2018. The increase in net income in the current quarter resulted from the increase in the gross profit percentage primarily attributable to the decrease in incurred spending related to a specific engineering design contract, offset in part, by a decrease in sales. In addition, the increase in net income in the current quarter was reduced by an increase in incurred selling, general, and administrative expenditures, lower other income and an increase in the provision for income taxes when compared to the same periods in 2018, all discussed above. 

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

The Company's working capital is an appropriate indicator of the liquidity of its business, and during the past two fiscal years, the Company, when possible, has funded all of its operations with cash flows resulting from operating activities and when necessary from its existing cash and investments. The Company did not borrow any funds during the last two fiscal years. Management has available a $3,000,000 line of credit to help fund further growth or working capital needs, if necessary, but does not anticipate the need for any borrowed funds in the foreseeable future. Contingent liabilities on outstanding standby letters of credit agreements aggregated to zero at September 30, 2019 and 2018. The line of credit is reviewed annually in November for renewal by December 1st.  


Index   

The Company's working capital as of September 30, 2019 and 2018 was approximately $28.0 million and $26.6 million, respectively. The Company may at times be required to repurchase shares at the ESOP participants’ request at the fair market value. During the three months ended September 30, 2019, the Company repurchased 333 shares previously held in the ESOP for $8,291. During the three months ended September 30, 2018, the Company did not repurchase any shares held by the ESOP. Under existing authorizations from the Company's Board of Directors, as of September 30, 2019, management is authorized to purchase an additional $823,118 of Company stock. 


Net cash provided by operating activities fluctuates between periods primarily as a result of differences in sales and net income, provision for income taxes, the timing of the collection of accounts receivable, purchase of inventory, and payment of accounts payable. The increase in cash provided by operating activities compared to the prior year primarily relates to a decrease in accounts receivable, inventory and prepaid and other expenses and an increase in contract liabilities offset, in part, by a decrease in accounts payable. Net cash provided by investing activities decreased in the three months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the same period in 2018 is primarily due to the reinvestment of maturing investments when compared to the same period in 2018, offset in part, by decrease in spending for the purchase of property, plant and equipment. The increase in cash used in financing activities in the current period is primarily related to the cash expended for the regular dividend totaling $0.25 per share declared and paid in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and the decrease in proceeds from the exercise of stock options during the current fiscal year. In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the regular dividend and a special dividend approximating $3 million in total was declared but not paid to shareholders until the second quarter of the fiscal year. 

The Company currently believes that the cash flow generated from operations and when necessary, from cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet its long-term funding requirements for the foreseeable future. 

During the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, the Company expended $94,070 and $611,995, respectively, for plant improvements and new equipment. The Company has budgeted approximately $300,000 for new equipment and plant improvements in fiscal year 2020. Management anticipates that the funds required will be available from current operations. 

Management believes that the Company's reserve for bad debts of $3,000 is adequate given the customers with whom the Company does business. Historically, bad debt expense has been minimal. 


Index   

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE "SAFE HARBOR" PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE 

SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 

This report contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The terms "believe," "anticipate," "intend," "goal," "expect," and similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements represent the Company's current expectations or beliefs concerning future events. The matters covered by these statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements, including the Company's dependence on timely development, introduction and customer acceptance of new products, the impact of competition and price erosion, supply and manufacturing constraints, potential new orders from customers, the impact of cyber or other security threats or other disruptions to our business, and other risks and uncertainties. The foregoing list should not be construed as exhaustive, and the Company disclaims any obligation subsequently to revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements or to reflect the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events. The Company wishes to caution readers not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. 

Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

The Company is a smaller reporting company as defined under Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 12b-2. Pursuant to the exemption available to smaller reporting company issuers under Item 305 of Regulation S-K, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, the Company is not required to provide the information for this item. 

Item 4. Controls and Procedures 




Index   

PART II: Other Information and Signatures 

 Item 1.Legal Proceedings 

We are party to various litigation matters and claims arising from time to time in the ordinary course of business. While the results of such matters cannot be predicted with certainty, we believe that the final outcome of such matters will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  

 Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds 

 (a)Securities Sold - None 

 (c)Securities Repurchased 


 (1)Pursuant to a prior Board of Directors authorization, as of September 30, 2019 the Company can repurchase up to $823,118 of its common stock pursuant to an ongoing plan. 

 Item 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities 

None 

 Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures 

Not applicable 

 Item 5.Other Information 

None 

 Item 6.Exhibits 

   31.1 Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

   31.2  Certification of the Principal Financial Officer and Executive Vice President pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

   32.1  Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

   32.2  Certification of the Principal Financial Officer and Executive Vice President pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   


Index   

S I G N A T U R E S 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 



