Document   

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION






xQUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934.

For the quarterly period ended March 31, 2019 

OR

¨

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934.

For the transition period from to 

Commission file number 000-21918


FLIR Systems, Inc.







Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes x No ¨

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes x No ¨

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company. See the definition of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one)


Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes ¨ No x

If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. Yes ¨ No ¨

As of April 26, 2019, there were 135,421,141 shares of the registrant’s common stock, $0.01 par value, outstanding.

INDEX


PART I. FINANCIAL INFORMATION

ITEM 1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.








The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.


FLIR SYSTEMS, INC.

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


Note 1.Basis of Presentation 

The accompanying consolidated financial statements of FLIR Systems, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries (the “Company”) are unaudited and have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission. In the opinion of management, these statements have been prepared on the same basis as the audited consolidated financial statements and include all adjustments, consisting of only normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s consolidated financial position and results of operations for the interim periods. Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations. These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018.

The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of FLIR Systems, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. The results of operations for the interim periods presented are not necessarily indicative of the operating results to be expected for any subsequent interim period or for the year ending December 31, 2019.

Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements




FASB ASU No. 2018-07, "Improvements to Nonemployee Share-Based Payment Accounting" ("ASU 2018-07"). Effective January 1, 2019, the Company adopted ASU 2018-07. The standard more closely aligns the accounting for employee and nonemployee share-based payments. The standard did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements or disclosures.


FLIR SYSTEMS, INC.

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)


Note 1.Basis of Presentation - (Continued)

Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements - (Continued)

FASB ASU No. 2018-15, “Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That is a Service Contract” (“ASU 2018-15”). Effective January 1, 2019, the Company adopted ASU 2018-15. The amendments in this update align the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software (and hosting arrangements that include an internal-use software license). The accounting for the service element of a hosting arrangement that is a service contract is not affected by the amendments in this update. The standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. 


Revenue Recognition

The Company designs, markets and sells products primarily as commercial, off-the-shelf products. Certain customers request different system configurations, based on standard options or accessories that the Company offers. Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for those products or services. The Company regularly enters into contracts that can include various combinations of products and services, which are generally capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations. In such situations, contract values are allocated to each performance obligation based on its relative estimated standalone selling price. The vast majority of the Company's revenues are recognized at a point in time when goods are transferred to a customer. However, for certain contracts that include highly customized components, if performance does not create an asset with an alternative use and termination for convenience clauses provide an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, revenue is recognized over time as the performance obligation is satisfied.

Revenue includes certain shipping and handling costs and is stated net of third party agency fees. Shipping and handling costs associated with outbound freight after control over a product has transferred to a customer are accounted for as a fulfillment cost and are included in cost of goods sold. Revenue is recognized net of allowances for returns and net of taxes collected from customers which are subsequently remitted to governmental authorities.

The Company's products are sold with warranty provisions that require it to remedy deficiencies in quality or performance of the Company's products over a specified period of time, generally twelve to twenty-four months, at no cost to its customers. Warranty liabilities are established at the time that revenue is recognized at levels that represent the Company's estimate of the costs that will be incurred to fulfill those warranty requirements.

Provisions for estimated losses on sales or related receivables are recorded when identified. Service revenue is deferred and recognized over the contract period, as is the case for extended warranty contracts, or recognized as services are provided. 

See Note 19, "Operating Segments and Related Information - Revenue and Long-Lived Assets by Geographic Area" for information related to the Company’s revenues disaggregated by significant geographical region and operating segment.

Contract Balances

The timing of revenue recognition, billings and cash collections results in billed accounts receivable, unbilled receivables and deferred revenue and advance payments from customers on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Contract assets and liabilities are reported on a contract-by-contract basis. The Company had no material deferred contract costs recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of March 31, 2019.



FLIR SYSTEMS, INC.

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)


Note 2.Revenue - (Continued)

Contract Balances


Remaining Performance Obligations

Remaining performance obligations represent the aggregate transaction price allocated to performance obligations with an original contract term greater than one year which are fully or partially unsatisfied at the end of the period. While the remaining performance obligation disclosure is similar in concept to backlog, the definition of remaining performance obligations excludes contracts that provide the customer with the right to cancel or terminate for convenience with no substantial penalty, even if historical experience indicates the likelihood of cancellation or termination is remote. The Company has elected to exclude contracts with customers with an original term of one year or less from remaining performance obligations while these contracts are included within backlog. 

As of March 31, 2019, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations was approximately $123.6 million. The Company expects to recognize revenue on approximately 84 percent of the remaining performance obligations over the next twelve months, and the remainder recognized thereafter.


Stock Incentive Plans



Employee Stock Purchase Plan

The Company has an Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the “ESPP”) which allows employees to purchase shares of the Company’s common stock at 85 percent of the fair market value at the lower of either the date of enrollment or the purchase date. The ESPP provides for six-month offerings commencing on May 1 and November 1 of each year with purchases on April 30 and October 31 of each year. Shares purchased under the 2009 ESPP must be held by employees for a period of at least 18 months after the date of purchase. On April 19, 2019, the Company's shareholders approved the FLIR Systems, Inc. 2019 Employee Stock Purchase Plan ("2019 ESPP"). The final purchase under the 2009 ESPP was on April 30, 2019 and the first offering under the 2019 ESPP commenced on May 1, 2019. 


FLIR SYSTEMS, INC.

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)


Note 3. Stock-based Compensation - (Continued)





As of March 31, 2019, the Company had approximately $45.5 million of total unrecognized stock-based compensation costs, net of estimated forfeitures, to be recognized over a weighted average period of two years.

Note 4.Net Earnings Per Share 



The effect of stock-based compensation awards for three months ended March 31, 2019, which in the aggregate consisted of 58,000 shares have been excluded for purposes of diluted earnings per share since the effect of their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive. There were no shares excluded for the three months ended March 31, 2018.

Note 5.Fair Value of Financial Instruments 


Level 1 – quoted prices in active markets for identical securities as of the reporting date;

Level 2 – other significant directly or indirectly observable inputs, including quoted prices for similar securities, interest rates, prepayment speeds, credit risk, and observable market prices for identical instruments that are traded in less active markets; and

Level 3 – significant inputs that are generally less observable than objective sources, including our own assumptions in determining fair value.


FLIR SYSTEMS, INC.

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)


Note 5.Fair Value of Financial Instruments - (Continued)

The factors or methodology used for valuing securities are not necessarily an indication of the risk associated with investing in those securities.

The Company had $0.7 million and $200.0 million of cash equivalents at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively, which were primarily investments in money market funds and overnight deposits. The Company has categorized its cash equivalents as a Level 1 financial asset, measured at fair value based on quoted prices in active markets of identical assets. All cash equivalents are in instruments that are convertible to cash daily. The fair value of the Company’s foreign currency contracts as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, and the interest rate swap contract as of March 31, 2019 are disclosed in Note 6, "Derivative Financial Instruments," and are based on Level 2 inputs. The fair value of the Company's borrowings under the Credit Agreement as described in Note 13, "Credit Agreement," as of March 31, 2019 approximates the carrying value. The fair value of the Company’s senior unsecured notes as described in Note 14, "Long-Term Debt," is approximately $427.0 million and $418.8 million based upon Level 2 inputs at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.

Note 6. Derivative Financial Instruments 

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk

The Company enters into foreign currency forward contracts not formally designated as hedges to manage the consolidated exchange rate risk associated with the remeasurement of non-functional currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities. Changes in fair value of foreign currency forward contracts are recognized in income at the end of each reporting period based on the difference between the contract rate and the spot rate. In general, these gains and losses are offset in the Consolidated Statements of Income by the reciprocal gains and losses from the underlying assets or liabilities which originally gave rise to the exposure. The net amount of the gains and losses related to derivative instruments recorded in other expense (income), net for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 were a net gain of $0.3 million and a net loss of $4.7 million, respectively. 



At March 31, 2019, the Company’s foreign currency forward contracts, in general, had maturities of three months or less.




FLIR SYSTEMS, INC.

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)


Note 6. Derivative Financial Instruments - (Continued)

Interest Rate Swap Contracts 

The Company's outstanding debt at March 31, 2019 consists of fixed rate notes and an unsecured credit facility consisting of a revolving loan facility, a U.S. dollar term loan facility and a Swedish kronor term loan facility, all of which accrue interest at a floating rate. As discussed in Note 13, "Credit Agreement," of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements above, interest expense on the Company's floating rate debt is calculated based on a fixed spread over the applicable Eurocurrency rate (i.e. LIBOR). Therefore, fluctuations in market interest rates will cause interest expense increases or decreases on a given amount of floating rate debt.

The Company is managing its interest rate risk related to certain floating rate debt through a floored amortizing interest rate swap (“floored swap”) in which the Company receives floating rate payments subject to a floor of zero percent and makes fixed rate payments. The impact of the floored swap is to fix the floating rate basis for the calculation of interest on the unsecured Swedish kronor term loan at the levels indicated in the table below. The effective interest rate paid is equal to the fixed rates shown below plus the applicable spread then in effect. At March 31, 2019, the effective interest rate on the Swedish kronor term loan which includes the impact of the floored swap was 1.840 percent. 



The floored swap is designated and effective as a cash flow hedge and recorded as an asset or liability in the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value. Fair value adjustments are recorded as an adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive earnings, except that any gains and losses on ineffectiveness of the floored swap would be recorded as an adjustment to other expense (income), net. The net fair value carrying amount of the Company's floored swap was a loss of $1.1 million, which has been recorded in prepaid expenses and other current assets, other assets, other current liabilities and pension and other long-term liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of March 31, 2019.

All of the Company's derivative counterparties have investment grade credit ratings. The Company is a party to master netting arrangements that contain features that allow counterparties to net settle amounts arising from multiple separate derivative transactions or net settle in the case of certain triggering events such as a bankruptcy or major default of one of the counterparties to the transaction. The Company has not pledged assets or posted collateral as a requirement for entering into or maintaining derivative positions.


Accounts receivable are net of an allowance for doubtful accounts of $5.7 million and $4.3 million at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.





FLIR SYSTEMS, INC.

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



The Company determines if an arrangement is a lease at inception. Operating leases are included in other assets, other current liabilities, and pension and other long-term liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets. The Company does not have any finance leases at March 31, 2019. 

Operating lease right-of-use assets (ROU assets) represent the Company’s right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and operating lease liabilities represent the obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease. ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at the commencement date of the lease based on the present value of minimum fixed lease payments over the lease term. As most of the leases do not provide an implicit rate, the Company uses its incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments. ROU assets also include prepaid lease payments made prior to commencement of the lease plus initial capitalized direct costs and exclude tenant improvement allowances. The lease terms may include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that the option will be exercised. Lease expense for minimum fixed lease payments is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 

The Company has elected to apply the short-term lease exemption in accordance with guidance, and therefore, short-term leases (leases with a term of twelve months or less) are not recorded on the balance sheet. The Company has only a small number of leases that qualify for the exemption and the amount of its remaining short-term lease commitments is not significant. 

Most of the Company’s operating leases are for buildings, warehouses and office space. These leases have remaining lease terms of approximately one year to ten years.







As of March 31, 2019, the weighted average remaining lease term for operating leases was 5.3 years and the weighted average discount rate was 4.03% percent.


FLIR SYSTEMS, INC.

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)


Note 9. Leases - (Continued) 





Note 10. Property and Equipment 

Property and equipment are net of accumulated depreciation of $341.0 million and $333.4 million at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.




See Note 19, "Operating Segments and Related Information" of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the carrying value of goodwill by operating segments. 

Note 12. Intangible Assets 

Intangible assets are net of accumulated amortization of $103.3 million and $97.7 million at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.


FLIR SYSTEMS, INC.

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



On March 29, 2019, the Company entered into a Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (“Credit Agreement”) with Bank of America, N.A., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., U.S. Bank National Association, Citibank, N.A., MUFG Union Bank, N.A., and the other lenders party thereto. The Credit Agreement amended and restated the Company's existing Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of May 31, 2016 ("Existing Credit Agreement"). The Credit Agreement provides for a $650.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility, a $100.0 million unsecured term loan facility available in U.S. dollars amortizing at 5.000 percent per annum, and a $150.0 million unsecured term loan facility available in Swedish kronor amortizing at 5.000 percent per annum. The Credit Agreement has a term of five years and matures on March 29, 2024. In connection with the closing of the Credit Agreement, the Company made an initial borrowing of $100.0 million in revolving loans, $100.0 million in term loans in U.S. dollars, and the equivalent of $150.0 million in term loans in Swedish kronor. Additionally, the Company repaid in full all outstanding amounts, consisting of revolving loans in an aggregate principal amount of $375.0 million, under the Existing Credit Agreement.

Note 14. Long-Term Debt 



In June 2016, the Company issued $425.0 million aggregate principal amount of its 3.125 percent senior unsecured notes due June 15, 2021 (the “2016 Notes”). The net proceeds from the issuance of the 2016 Notes were approximately $421.0 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and offering expenses, which are being amortized over a period of five years. Interest on the 2016 Notes is payable semiannually in arrears on December 15 and June 15. The proceeds from the 2016 Notes were used to repay the principal amount of the notes outstanding in July 2016 and are being used for general corporate purposes, including working capital and capital expenditure needs, business acquisitions and repurchases of the Company’s common stock.

As discussed in Note 13, "Credit Agreement," of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements above, on March 29, 2019, the Company made an initial borrowing of $100.0 million in term loans in U.S. dollars, and the equivalent of $150.0 million in term loans in Swedish kronor. Both term loans amortize at 5.000 percent per annum with the current portion included in current liabilities.

Note 15.Accrued Product Warranties 




FLIR SYSTEMS, INC.

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



On February 7, 2019, the Company's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 15.0 million shares of the Company's outstanding common stock. This authorization expires in February 2021. During the three months ended March 31, 2019, the Company repurchased 0.5 million shares of the Company's common stock through open market transactions under the under the 2019 authorization. The February 2017 authorization by the Company's Board of Directors expired in February 2019. 

On March 8, 2019, the Company paid a dividend of $0.17 per share on its outstanding common stock to the shareholders of record as of the close of business on February 22, 2019. The total cash payments for dividends during the three months ended March 31, 2019 were $23.0 million.


Matters Involving the United States Department of State and Department of Commerce 


As part of the Consent Agreement, DDTC acknowledged that the Company voluntarily disclosed certain of the alleged Arms Export Control Act and ITAR violations, which were resolved pursuant to the Consent Agreement, cooperated in the DDTC's review, and instituted a number of compliance program improvements.

In May 2017, the Company submitted an initial notification to DDTC regarding potential violations related to certain export classifications obtained through the commodity jurisdiction process and a final voluntary disclosure in August 2017. The Company also submitted a voluntary self-disclosure regarding the same matter with the United States Department of Commerce Bureau of Industry and Security ("BIS"). DDTC and BIS both acknowledged the submissions and, at the request of the agencies, the Company executed tolling agreements for this matter, suspending the statute of limitations through January 13, 2019 for DDTC and May 15, 2019 for DDTC and BIS, respectively. This matter remains under review by DDTC and BIS.


The Company is unable to reasonably estimate the time it may take to resolve these matters or the amount or range of potential loss, penalty or other government action, if any, that may be incurred in connection with these matters. However, an unfavorable outcome could result in substantial fines and penalties or loss or suspension of export privileges or of particular authorizations that could be material to the Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows in and following the period in which such an outcome becomes estimable or known.


FLIR SYSTEMS, INC.

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)


Note 17.Contingencies - (Continued)

SkyWatch Product Quality Matters

In March 2016, the Company learned of potential quality concerns with respect to as many as 315 Level III and Level IV SkyWatch Surveillance Towers sold by FLIR and companies acquired by FLIR from 2002 through 2014. The Company notified customers who purchased the affected SkyWatch Towers of the potential concerns and, as a precautionary measure, also temporarily suspended production of all Level III and Level IV SkyWatch Towers pending the completion of its review and the implementation of any necessary remedial measures. The Company identified the cause of these quality issues, notified customers of their option to request repair and modification of their in-field units, and has begun in-field repairs of identified affected units. While there still remains uncertainty related to estimating the costs associated with a potential remedy and number of units which may require such remedy, the Company currently estimates the range of potential loss on remaining units to be between $4.9 million and $12.1 million. As no single amount within the range is a better estimate than any other amount within the range, the Company has recorded an accrual of $4.9 million in other current liabilities as of March 31, 2019. Factors underlying this estimated range of loss may change from time to time, and actual results may vary significantly from this estimate.

Shareholder Derivative Lawsuit

In October 2018, a shareholder filed a derivative lawsuit in the Circuit Court of the State of Oregon for the County of Multnomah under the caption Stein v. Carter, et al., Case No. 18CV46824, against the Company, as a nominal defendant, and certain current and former directors of the Company. Pointing to the Company’s 2015 settlement with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission of alleged United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act violations and 2018 settlement with United States Department of State of alleged export control violations, the complaint alleges that the Company’s directors breached their fiduciary duties by failing to ensure that the Company had internal controls in place that would have prevented the alleged underlying misconduct and these settlements. The complaint also asserts claims for corporate waste and unjust enrichment, and seeks unspecified monetary damages from the individual defendants, injunctive relief, disgorgement of director compensation, and attorneys’ fees and costs. Because the complaint is derivative in nature, it does not seek monetary damages from the Company. However, the Company may be required to advance, and ultimately be responsible for, the legal fees and costs incurred by the individual defendants.

On January 16, 2019, the defendants moved to dismiss the complaint. On March 21, 2019, instead of opposing the defendants' motion, the plaintiff filed an amended complaint. On April 25, 2019, the defendants moved to dismiss the amended complaint. A hearing on the motion to dismiss has been set for July 19, 2019.

Other Matters

The Company is also subject to other legal and administrative proceedings, investigations, claims and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business not specifically identified above. In these identified matters and others not specifically identified, the Company records a liability with respect to a matter when management believes it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the Company can reasonably estimate the amount of the loss. The Company believes it has recorded adequate provisions for any probable and estimable losses for matters in existence on the date hereof. The Company reviews these provisions to reflect the impact of negotiations, settlements, rulings, advice of legal counsel and other information and events pertaining to a particular matter. While the outcome of each of these matters is currently not determinable, the Company does not expect that the ultimate resolution of any such matter will individually have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The costs to resolve all such matters may in the aggregate have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.




 The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2019, is lower than the United States Federal tax rate of 21.0 percent mainly due to a reduction in previously non-deductible interest expense and excess tax benefits from stock compensation, offset partially by state taxes, higher tax rates applied to income earned in certain foreign jurisdictions, and other discrete items.


FLIR SYSTEMS, INC.

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)


Note 18.Income Taxes - (Continued)

As of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the Company has accrued income tax liabilities of $42.9 million related to the transition tax enacted on December 22, 2017 as part of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Of the amounts accrued, none are expected to be due within one year. The remaining transition tax will not accrue interest and will be paid in annual installments beginning in 2020 through 2024.

As of March 31, 2019, the Company had approximately $20.4 million of unrecognized tax benefits, all of which would affect the Company’s effective tax rate if recognized. The Company anticipates approximately $5.1 million of its net unrecognized tax benefits will be recognized within 12 months as the result of settlements or effective settlements with various tax authorities, the closure of certain audits and the lapse of the applicable statute of limitations. 

The Company classifies interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in the income tax provision. As of March 31, 2019, the Company had $6.2 million of accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits that are recorded as current and non-current accrued income taxes on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.


Management believes that the Company's recorded tax liabilities are adequate in the aggregate for its income tax exposures. 



Note 19. Operating Segments and Related Information 

Operating Segments


Industrial Business Unit

The Industrial business unit develops and manufactures thermal and visible-spectrum imaging camera cores and components that are utilized by third parties to create thermal, industrial, and other types of imaging systems. The segment also develops and manufactures devices that image, measure, and assess thermal energy, gases, and other environmental elements for industrial, commercial, and scientific applications, imaging payloads for Unmanned Aerial Systems ("UAS"), machine vision cameras, people counting and tracking, and thermal imaging solutions for use by consumers in the smartphone and mobile devices markets. Products include thermal imaging cameras, gas detection cameras, firefighting cameras, process automation cameras, and environmental test and measurement devices.

Government and Defense Business Unit

The Government and Defense business unit develops and manufactures enhanced imaging and recognition solutions for a wide variety of military, law enforcement, public safety, and other government customers around the world for the protection of borders, troops, and public welfare. The segment also develops and manufactures sensor instruments and integrated platform solutions for the detection, identification, and suppression of chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear, and explosives ("CBRNE") threats for military force protection, homeland security, and commercial applications. Offerings include airborne, land, maritime, and man-portable multi-spectrum imaging systems, radars, lasers, imaging components, integrated multi-sensor system platforms, CBRNE detectors, nano-class UAS solutions, and services related to these systems.


FLIR SYSTEMS, INC.

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)


Note 19. Operating Segments and Related Information - (Continued)

Operating Segments - (Continued)

Commercial Business Unit

The Commercial business unit develops and manufactures cameras, video recording systems, and video management systems for use in commercial and critical infrastructure, electronics and imaging instruments for the recreational and commercial maritime market, intelligent traffic monitoring and signal control systems, and hand-held and weapon-mounted thermal imaging systems for use in a variety of applications. Products include thermal and visible-spectrum security cameras, digital and networked video recorders, and related software and accessories, a full suite of networked marine electronic systems including multi-function helm displays, navigational instruments, autopilots, radars, sonar systems, thermal and visible imaging systems, and communications equipment for boats of all sizes, traffic cameras, sensors and associated traffic management software, and thermal scopes and handheld thermal cameras. 

The Company’s chief operating decision maker ("CODM"), its Chief Executive Officer, evaluates each of its segments’ performance and allocates resources based on revenue and segment operating income. Intersegment revenues are recorded at cost and are eliminated in consolidation. The Company and each of its segments employ consistent accounting policies.

The following tables present revenue, operating income, and assets for the three segments. Operating income as reviewed by the CODM is revenue less cost of goods sold and operating expenses, excluding general corporate expenses, amortization of purchased intangible assets, amortization of acquisition-related inventory step-up, loss on sale of a business and restructuring and other charges. Net accounts receivable, inventories and demonstration assets for the operating segments are regularly reviewed by management and are reported below as segment assets. All remaining assets, liabilities, capital expenditures, and depreciation are managed on a Company-wide basis.




FLIR SYSTEMS, INC.

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)


Note 19. Operating Segments and Related Information - (Continued)

Operating Segments - (Continued)



Unallocated corporate expenses include general corporate expenses, acquisition related costs and executive transition costs.



FLIR SYSTEMS, INC.

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)


Note 19. Operating Segments and Related Information - (Continued)

Revenue and Long-Lived Assets by Geographic Area






Major Customers




FLIR SYSTEMS, INC.

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)


Note 20.Business Acquisitions and Divestitures 

Business Acquisitions

On March 26, 2018, the Company completed a transaction to acquire 100% of the outstanding stock of Fishing Hot Spots, a privately held technology company for approximately $7.1 million in cash. During the third quarter of 2018, the Company finalized the purchase price allocation and recorded $2.2 million of identified intangible assets and goodwill of $4.7 million in the Commercial business unit.

On April 3, 2018, the Company completed a transaction to acquire 100% of the outstanding stock of Fishidy, Inc., a privately held startup technology company for approximately $7.1 million in cash. During the third quarter of 2018, the Company finalized the purchase price allocation and recorded $3.8 million of identified intangible assets and goodwill of $4.6 million in the Commercial business unit.

On September 10, 2018, the Company completed a transaction to acquire 100% of the outstanding stock of Acyclica, Inc., a privately held software developer for automotive roadway and intersection data generation and analysis for approximately $10.3 million, including an estimate for contingent consideration pursuant to the stock purchase agreement. The allocation of the purchase price to identified intangible assets and goodwill is subject to the final determination of the valuation of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The primary areas of the purchase price allocation that are not yet finalized relate to the valuation of intangible assets and related taxes. The final allocation of the purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed will be completed when the final assessments of the intangible assets and related taxes are completed during the first half of 2019. Goodwill and intangibles will be recorded in the Commercial business unit. The preliminary unallocated purchase price of approximately $9.9 million, including an estimate for contingent consideration pursuant to the stock purchase agreement, has been reported in unallocated assets from acquisitions as of March 31, 2019. 

On October 16, 2018, the Company acquired substantially all of the outstanding shares of SeaPilot AB, a privately held technology company for approximately $4.6 million in cash. The allocation of the purchase price to identified intangible assets and goodwill is subject to the final determination of the valuation of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The primary areas of the purchase price allocation that are not yet finalized relate to the valuation of intangible assets and related taxes. The final allocation of the purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed will be completed when the final assessments of the intangible assets and related taxes are completed during the first half of 2019. Goodwill and intangibles will be recorded in the Commercial business unit. The preliminary unallocated purchase price of approximately $4.3 million has been reported in unallocated assets from acquisitions as of December 31, 2018. 

On January 28, 2019, the Company completed its acquisition of 100% of the outstanding stock of Aeryon Labs Inc., a privately held developer of high-performance UAS for the global military, public safety, and critical infrastructure markets for approximately $210.6 million in cash. The allocation of the purchase price to identified intangible assets and goodwill is subject to the final determination of the valuation of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The primary areas of the purchase price allocation that are not yet finalized relate to the valuation of intangible assets and related taxes. The final allocation of the purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed will be completed when the final assessments of the intangible assets and related taxes are completed during the second half of 2019. Goodwill and intangibles will be recorded in the Government and Defense business unit. The preliminary unallocated purchase price of approximately $192.8 million has been reported in unallocated assets from acquisitions as of March 31, 2019. 

On March 4, 2019, the Company completed its acquisition of 100% of the outstanding stock of Endeavor Robotics Holdings, Inc. a privately held developer of battle-tested, tactical unmanned ground vehicles for the global military, public safety, and critical infrastructure markets for approximately $386.8 million in cash. The allocation of the purchase price to identified intangible assets and goodwill is subject to the final determination of the valuation of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The primary areas of the purchase price allocation that are not yet finalized relate to the valuation of intangible assets and related taxes. The final allocation of the purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed will be completed when the final assessments of the intangible assets and related taxes are completed during the second half of 2019. Goodwill and intangibles will be recorded in the Government and Defense business unit. The preliminary unallocated purchase price of approximately $368.0 million has been reported in unallocated assets from acquisitions as of March 31, 2019. 

The business acquisitions listed above are not significant as defined in Regulation S–X under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor are they significant compared to the Company's overall results of operations. Consequently, no pro forma financial information is provided.


FLIR SYSTEMS, INC.

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)


Note 20.Business Acquisitions and Divestitures - (Continued)

Divestitures of the Consumer and Small and Medium-Sized Security Businesses

 On February 6, 2018 the Company sold the Consumer and Small and Medium-sized ("SMB") Security businesses within the Commercial business unit for total cash consideration of approximately $28.8 million. As a result of this combined sale, the Company recognized a total pre-tax loss of approximately $37.3 million (approximately $23.6 million in year ended December 31, 2017 and approximately $13.7 million in the year ended December 31, 2018). This disposal did not qualify as discontinued operations and therefore, its operating results were included in the Company’s continuing operations for all periods presented through the date of the sale.


On April 18, 2019, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.17 per share on its common stock, payable on June 7, 2019, to shareholders of record as of the close of business on May 24, 2019. The total cash payment of this dividend will be approximately $23.0 million.

On May 1, 2019, the Company acquired the outstanding stock of New England Optical Systems, Inc., a privately-held engineering and manufacturing company engaged in the design and production of technologically advanced infrared optical assemblies. The transaction consideration includes an initial $22.0 million cash payment with up to an additional $12.0 million paid over a two-year period, dependent upon achieving certain milestones. The acquisition will be reported within the Company’s Industrial Business Unit, further expanding its vertically integrated manufacturing strategy.


ITEM 2.MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Forward-Looking Statements

This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (the “Report”), including “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part I, Item 2, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 regarding future events and the future results of FLIR Systems, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries (“FLIR” or the “Company”) that are based on management’s current expectations, estimates, projections and assumptions about the Company’s business. Words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “sees,” “estimates” and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in such forward-looking statements due to numerous factors including, but not limited to, those discussed in “Risk Factors” section in Part II, Item 1A of this Report, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part I, Item 2, and elsewhere in this Report as well as those discussed from time to time in the Company’s other Securities and Exchange Commission filings and reports. In addition, such statements could be affected by general industry, economic, and market conditions. Such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Report or, in the case of any document incorporated by reference, the date of that document, and the Company does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Report, or for changes made to this document by wire services or Internet service providers. If the Company updates or corrects one or more forward-looking statements, investors and others should not conclude that the Company will make additional updates or corrections with respect to other forward-looking statements.

Consolidated Operating Results

The following discussion of operating results provides an overview of our operations by addressing key elements in our Consolidated Statements of Income. The “Segment Operating Results” section that follows describes the contributions of each of our business segments to our consolidated revenue and earnings from operations. Given the nature of our business, we believe revenue and earnings from operations (including operating margin percentage) are most relevant to an understanding of our performance at a segment level. Additionally, at the segment level we disclose backlog, which represents orders received for products or services for which a sales agreement is in place and delivery is expected within twelve months. Backlog is not an absolute indicator of future revenue because a portion of the orders in backlog could be canceled at the customer's discretion. While the backlog is subject to order cancellations, we have not historically experienced a significant amount of order cancellations. 

Revenue. Consolidated revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2019, increased by 1.2 percent year over year, from $439.6 million in the first quarter of 2018 to $444.7 million in the first quarter of 2019. Increases in revenues for the three month period in our Industrial and Government and Defense business units were partially offset by declines in the Commercial business unit.

The timing of orders, scheduling of backlog, and fluctuations in demand in various regions of the world can give rise to quarter to quarter and year over year fluctuations in the mix of revenue. Consequently, year over year comparisons for any given quarter may not be indicative of comparisons using longer time periods. We currently expect total annual revenue for 2019 to be higher than 2018 revenue, however, unexpected changes in economic conditions from key customer markets or other major unanticipated events may cause total revenue, and the mix of revenue between our segments, to vary from quarter to quarter during the year.

International sales accounted for 45.4 percent and 48.7 percent of total revenue for the quarters ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The proportion of our international revenue compared to total revenue will fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to normal variation in order activity across various regions as well as specific factors that may affect one region and not another. Overall, we anticipate that revenue from international sales will continue to comprise a significant percentage of total revenue.

Cost of goods sold. Cost of goods sold for the three months ended March 31, 2019 were $211.1 million compared to cost of goods sold for the three months ended March 31, 2018 of $221.7 million. The decrease in cost of goods sold for the three month periods is primarily related to the decline in our Commercial business unit, which was largely a result of our divestiture of the Consumer and Small and Medium-sized ("SMB") Security businesses as announced in February 2018.

Gross profit. Gross profit for the quarter ended March 31, 2019, was $233.7 million compared to $217.9 million for the same quarter last year. Gross margin, defined as gross profit divided by revenue, increased from 49.6 percent in the first quarter of 2018 to 52.5 percent in the first quarter of 2019. The increase in gross margin for the three and nine month periods was primarily due to product mix in the Government and Defense business unit and product mix and productivity improvement in the Industrial business unit. 


Research and development expenses. Research and development expenses for the first quarter of 2019 totaled $48.0 million, compared to $44.6 million in the first quarter of 2018. Research and development expenses as a percentage of revenue were 10.8 percent for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 10.1 percent for the three months ended March 31, 2018. We have, and will continue to have, fluctuations in quarterly spending depending on product development needs and overall business spending priorities and believe that annual spending levels are most indicative of our commitment to research and development. Over the past five annual periods through December 31, 2018, our annual research and development expenses have varied between 8.5 percent and 9.9 percent of revenue, and we currently expect these expenses to remain within that approximate range, on an annual basis, for the foreseeable future.

Selling, general, and administrative expenses. Selling, general, and administrative expenses were $104.6 million and $107.7 million for the quarters ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The decrease in selling, general, and administrative expenses year over year is primarily attributed to a $15 million regulatory settlement recorded in the first quarter of 2018 partially offset by acquisition related expenses for acquisitions occurring in the first quarter of 2019. Selling, general, and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue were 23.5 percent and 24.5 percent for the quarters ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Over the past five annual periods through December 31, 2018, our annual selling, general and administrative expenses have varied between 19.4 percent and 21.8 percent of revenue, and excluding the impact of the $15.0 million regulatory settlement cost described above, we currently expect these expenses to remain within that approximate range, on an annual basis, for the foreseeable future.

Loss on sale of business. During the first quarter of 2018, we recorded an additional pre-tax loss on the sale of our Consumer and SMB Security businesses of $10.2 million. See Note 20, "Business Acquisitions and Divestitures," of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

Interest expense. Interest expense for the three months ended March 31, 2019, was $5.5 million, compared to $4.1 million for the same period of 2018. Interest expense for the three month period in 2019 was primarily associated with the $425 million aggregate principal amount of our 3.125 percent senior unsecured notes and interest on amounts drawn under our credit facility. Interest expense for the same period in 2018 was primarily associated with the $425 million aggregate principal amount of our 3.125 percent senior unsecured notes. 

Income taxes. Our income tax provision of $13.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, represents an effective tax rate of 17.4 percent. Our income tax provision for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was $15.4 million, which represented an effective tax rate of 28.2 percent. The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2019 is lower than the United States Federal tax rate of 21 percent mainly due to a reduction in previously non-deductible interest expense and excess tax benefits from stock compensation, offset partially by state taxes, higher tax rates applied to income earned in certain foreign jurisdictions, and other discrete items.


Segment Operating Results

The Company is currently organized into three reportable segments. The three reportable segments continue to be the Industrial business unit, Government and Defense business unit and the Commercial business unit. See Note 19, “Operating Segments and Related Information,” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of each operating segment, including the types of products and services from which each operating segment derives its revenues. 


Industrial



Industrial business unit revenue for the quarter ended March 31, 2019 increased by 5.1 percent compared to the same period of 2018. The increase in revenue for the three month period ended March 31, 2019, compared to the same period of 2018, was predominately attributable to strong growth across the cooled cores and UAS product lines partially offset by volume declines in the Integrated Imaging Systems (IIS) business. The increases in earnings from operations and corresponding operating margin for the three month period ended March 31, 2019, compared to the same period of 2018, were predominately attributable to favorable product mix in the OEM cores business and productivity initiatives to improve manufacturing efficiency across all divisions. The decline in backlog during the three months ended March 31, 2019 is primarily attributed to productivity initiatives executed during the period to reduce lead times for customer deliveries of our machine vision and volume hand-held product lines.

Government and Defense



Government and Defense business unit revenue for the quarter ended March 31, 2019 increased by 8.8 percent compared to the same period of 2018. The increase in both revenue and earnings from operations for the three month period ended March 31, 2019, compared to the same period of 2018, was primarily driven by increased volumes of UAS products and surveillance systems as well as the partial period revenue related to the acquisitions of Aeryon Labs Inc. and Endeavor Robotics Holdings Inc. during the quarter ended March 31, 2019. The decline in operating margin for the three month period ended March 31, 2019, compared to the same period of 2018 is also attributed to the inclusion of the results from these acquisitions. See Note 20, "Business Acquisitions and Divestitures," for further information. The increase in year-over-year backlog is primarily driven by timing of orders and subsequent timing of deployment of major programs in addition to the first quarter of 2019 acquisitions as noted above. 

Commercial




Commercial business unit revenue for the quarter ended March 31, 2019 decreased by 16.1 percent compared to the same period of 2018. The decrease in both revenue and earnings from operations for the three month period ended March 31, 2019 compared to the same period of 2018 was primarily due to the divestiture of our Consumer and SMB Security business during the first quarter of 2018 and volume declines in our Outdoor and Tactical Systems ("OTS") business. The decrease in year over year backlog is primarily attributed to a shift to non-current backlog for certain orders as well as volume declines in the OTS business. 

Liquidity and Capital Resources

At March 31, 2019, we had a total of $284.4 million in cash and cash equivalents, $95.2 million of which resided in the United States and $189.2 million at our foreign subsidiaries, compared to cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2018, of $512.1 million, of which $327.0 million resided in the United States and $185.1 million at our foreign subsidiaries. The decrease in cash and cash equivalents during the three months ended March 31, 2019, was primarily due to cash used for business acquisitions of $579.6 million, common stock repurchases of $25.0 million, dividend payments of $23.0 million, a minority interest investment of $5.0 million and capital expenditures of $9.1 million, partially offset by cash provided from operations of $55.5 million, net proceeds of $348.1 million from our revolving credit facility and long-term debt, and proceeds of $9.7 million from shares issued under our stock compensation plans.

Cash provided by operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2019 totaled $55.5 million, which primarily consisted of net earnings, adjusted for depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation, other non-cash items and changes in working capital. The increase of cash provided by operating activities in 2019 over 2018 was due to an increase in net income and working capital improvements.

Cash used by investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2019 totaled $590.7 million, which consisted primarily of business acquisitions, a minority interest investment and capital expenditures in the ordinary course of business.

Cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2019 totaled $308.3 million, which primarily consisted of cash provided from net proceeds from our revolving credit facility and long-term debt, and proceeds from shares issued under our stock compensation plans, partially offset by repurchases of shares of our common stock and the payment of quarterly dividends.

On March 29, 2019, we entered into a Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (“Credit Agreement”) with Bank of America, N.A., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., U.S. Bank National Association, Citibank, N.A., MUFG Union Bank, N.A., and the other lenders party thereto. The Credit Agreement amended and restated the Company's existing Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of May 31, 2016 ("Existing Credit Agreement"). The Credit Agreement provides for a $650.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility, a $100.0 million unsecured term loan facility available in U.S. dollars amortizing at 5.000 percent per annum, and a $150.0 million unsecured term loan facility available in Swedish kronor amortizing at 5.000 percent per annum. The Credit Agreement has a term of five years and matures on March 29, 2024. In connection with the closing of the Credit Agreement, we made an initial borrowing of $100.0 million in revolving loans, $100.0 million in term loans in U.S. dollars, and the equivalent of $150.0 million in term loans in Swedish kronor. Additionally we repaid in full all outstanding amounts, consisting of revolving loans in an aggregate principal amount of $375.0 million, under the Existing Credit Agreement.

We have the right, subject to certain conditions, including approval of additional commitments by qualified lenders, to increase the availability under the revolving credit facility by an additional $200.0 million until March 29, 2024. The Credit Agreement allows us and certain designated subsidiaries to borrow in United States dollars, European euros, Swedish kronor, British pound sterling, Japanese yen, Canadian dollars, Australian dollars, and other agreed upon currencies. Interest rates under the Credit Agreement fluctuate depending on the type and tenor of the borrowing, with the most common being a Eurocurrency rate loan based on the published Eurocurrency rate (i.e. LIBOR) in which the loan is denominated. Any amounts outstanding under the Credit Agreement bear interest, at our election, at either (A) the rate of interest paid for deposits in the relevant currency (the "Eurocurrency Base Rate") plus an applicable margin between 1.000 percent to 1.375 percent, or (B) the highest of (i) the federal funds rate plus 0.500%, (ii) the prime lending rate of Bank of America, N.A. or (iii) the Eurocurrency Base Rate plus 1.000%, in each case plus an applicable margin between 0.000% and 0.375%, depending on our consolidated total leverage ratio. At March 31, 2019, the borrowing rate on the revolving loan was 3.749 percent per annum, the borrowing rate on the U.S. dollar term loan was 3.851 percent per annum and the borrowing rate on the Swedish kronor term loan was 1.243 percent per annum. The Credit Agreement requires us to pay a commitment fee on the amount of unused revolving commitments at a rate, based on our consolidated total leverage ratio, which ranges from 0.125 percent to 0.200 percent of unused revolving commitments. At March 31, 2019, the commitment fee on the amount of unused revolving credit was 0.175 percent per annum. The Credit Agreement contains one financial covenant that requires maintenance of a consolidated total leverage ratio with which we were in compliance at March 31, 2019. The credit facilities available under the Credit Agreement are unsecured. The Credit Agreement also contains language providing for the adoption of a LIBOR successor rate consistent with market practice. 


To manage the interest rate risk arising from the variability in interest expense attributable to amounts drawn under the Swedish kronor term loan, we entered into a floored amortizing interest rate swap with a Swedish kronor notional amount equivalent to $150.0 million. The interest rate swap was designated, and effective, as cash flow hedges.

We had $11.0 million of letters of credit outstanding under the Credit Agreement at March 31, 2019, which reduced the total availability under the revolving commitments under the Credit Agreement.

In June 2016, we issued $425.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 3.125 percent senior unsecured notes due June 15, 2021 (the “Notes”). The net proceeds from the issuance of the Notes were approximately $421.0 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and offering expenses, which are being amortized over a period of five years. Interest on the Notes is payable semiannually in arrears on December 15 and June 15. The proceeds from the Notes were used to repay our 3.750 percent senior unsecured notes that were due September 1, 2016, and are being used for general corporate purposes, which include working capital and capital expenditure needs, business acquisitions, and repurchases of our common stock.

On February 8, 2017, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 15.0 million shares of our outstanding common stock. This authorization expired on February 8, 2019. On February 7, 2019, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 15.0 million shares of our outstanding common stock. This authorization will expire on February 7, 2021. As of March 31, 2019, a total of 0.5 million shares have been repurchased under the February 7, 2019 authorization. 

As of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the Company has accrued income tax liabilities of $42.9 million related to the transition tax enacted on December 22, 2017 as part of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Of the amounts accrued, none are expected to be due within one year. The remaining transition tax will not accrue interest and will be paid in annual installments beginning in 2020 through 2024.

We have not provided United States, state or foreign income taxes for earnings generated after January 1, 2018 by certain subsidiaries outside the United States as we currently intend to reinvest the earnings in operations and other activities outside of the United States indefinitely. Should we subsequently elect to repatriate such foreign earnings, we would need to accrue and pay state and foreign income taxes, thereby reducing the amount of our cash. United States taxes would generally not be payable due to changes made by the Tax Act. 


We believe that our existing cash combined with the cash we anticipate generating from operating activities, and our available credit facilities and financing available from other sources will be sufficient to meet our cash requirements for the next twelve months. We do not have any significant commitments nor are we aware of any significant events or conditions that are likely to have a material impact on our liquidity or capital resources.


Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

As of March 31, 2019, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are likely to have a material current or future effect on our financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources.

Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements


Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

Preparation of the financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the period. Management believes the most complex and sensitive judgments, because of their significance to the consolidated financial statements, result primarily from the need to make estimates about the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain. Readers should refer to Management's Discussion and Analysis and the critical accounting policies and its use of estimates as reported in Note 1, "Nature of Business and Significant Accounting Policies" and Note 14, "Contingencies" of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018. Actual results in these areas could differ materially from management's estimates. There have been no significant changes in the Company's assumptions regarding critical accounting estimates during the first three months of 2019.

Contractual Obligations

There were no material changes to the Company's contractual obligations outside the ordinary course of its business during the quarter ended March 31, 2019, other than the $100 million borrowed under the revolving credit facility and $250 million borrowed under the term loan facility and related interest under the Credit Agreement, as described above in "Liquidity and Capital Resources."

Contingencies

See Note 17, "Contingencies," of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the disclosure of certain matters by the Company to the United States Department of State Office of Defense Trade Controls Compliance, communications to the Company from the United States Department of Commerce Bureau of Industry and Security, and the Company's current estimates of the range of potential loss associated with quality concerns identified by the Company regarding certain SkyWatch Surveillance Towers.


ITEM 3.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK


Interest Rate Risk

The Company’s exposure to changes in market interest rates relates primarily to interest paid on the Company’s floating rate long-term debt. The Company’s floating rate long-term debt consists of amounts borrowed under our revolving loan facility that bears interest at the respective Eurocurrency rate (i.e. LIBOR) plus a scheduled spread. Fluctuations in market interest rates will cause interest expense increases or decreases on such long-term debt.

As our risk management objectives include mitigating the risk of changes in cash flows attributable to changes in the designated three-month Eurocurrency rate on the Company’s Swedish kronor term loan, the Company entered into a floored amortizing interest rate swap for the aggregate notional amount borrowed changes in the cash flows of the interest rate swap is expected to exactly offset the changes in cash flows attributable to fluctuations in the three-month Eurocurrency-based interest payments. The net effect of the swap is to convert the floating interest rate basis to a fixed rate of 0.59 percent.

See Note 6, "Derivative Financial Instruments - Interest Rate Swap Contracts," Note 13, "Credit Agreement," and Note 14, "Long-Term Debt," of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 2 of Part I, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," for additional information on the Company's interest rate risk.

ITEM 4.CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

As of March 31, 2019, the Company completed an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of the Company’s management, including the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and the Company’s Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures. Based on the evaluation, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures are effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports it files or submits under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms. 

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

There have been no changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the Company’s fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2019, that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial reporting. The Company implemented internal controls to ensure it adequately evaluated its contracts and properly assessed the impact of the new accounting standard related to leases on the Company's financial statements to facilitate the adoption on January 1, 2019. There were no significant changes to the Company's internal control over financial reporting due to the adoption of the new standard.


PART II. OTHER INFORMATION

ITEM 1.LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

The Company is subject to legal proceedings, claims and litigation arising in the ordinary course of its business. See Note 17, “Contingencies” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Company’s legal proceedings.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

The following are important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. If we are unable to adequately respond to these risks and uncertainties, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, we cannot be certain or give any assurance that any actions taken to reduce known risks and uncertainties will be effective.

Risks, Uncertainties and Other Factors Related to Our Business

We depend on the United States government for a material portion of our business and changes in government spending could adversely affect our business

We derive significant revenue from contracts or subcontracts funded by United States government agencies. A significant reduction in the purchase of our products by these agencies or contractors for these agencies would have a material adverse effect on our business. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, approximately 29 percent, 26 percent and 25 percent, respectively, of our revenues were derived directly or indirectly from sales to the United States government and its agencies. The funding of contracts awarded to us depends on the overall United States government budget and appropriations process, which is beyond our control. A failure to pass budget appropriations, adopt continuing funding resolutions or other budgetary decisions limiting or delaying federal government spending, could reduce government spending on our products and services and have a material adverse effect on our business and our operating results. 


Substantial uncertainty exists in the spending levels and priorities of the United States government, particularly with respect to military expenditures. Continued and further reductions in military spending could have a material adverse effect on our results from operations.


As a United States government supplier, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and regulations



Operating margins may be negatively impacted by reduction in sales or by a change in the mix of products sold

Our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations regarding future sales and these expenses are largely fixed in the short term. Some expenses, such as those related to research and development activities, would likely be maintained in the event of a sales downturn in order to maintain and enhance our long-term competitiveness. We maintain inventories of finished goods, components and raw materials at levels we believe are necessary to meet anticipated sales. Accordingly, we may not be able to reduce our costs in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfall between forecasted and actual sales. Any significant shortfall of sales may result in us carrying higher levels of inventories of finished goods, components and raw materials thereby increasing our risk of inventory obsolescence and corresponding inventory write-downs and write-offs. Our fixed costs, including facilities and information technology costs, compliance and public company costs, and depreciation and amortization related to previous acquisitions and capital expenditures, are significant and are difficult to reduce in the short term. Our operating margins vary by product and substantial changes in the mix of products sold could also have a negative impact on our operating margins.

We may experience impairment in the value of our tangible and intangible assets

Our industry is subject to rapid changes in technology, which may result in unexpected obsolescence or impairment of our assets. Our intangible assets, including goodwill, represent a significant portion of our total assets. Most of these intangibles are the result of acquisitions in which the purchase price exceeded the value of the tangible assets acquired. We amortize certain of these intangibles over their anticipated useful life and review goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or more frequently if warranted by events. To date we have not experienced any impairment of our intangible assets, but there can be no assurance that we will not experience such impairment in the future. In addition, certain of our tangible assets such as inventory and machinery and equipment may experience impairment in their value as a result of such events as the introduction of new products, changes in technology or changes in customer demand patterns. We depreciate our machinery and equipment at levels we believe are adequate; however, there can be no assurance that there will not be a future impairment that may have a material impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Unfavorable results of legal proceedings could materially adversely affect us 

We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that have arisen out of the ordinary conduct of our business and are not yet resolved, and additional claims may arise in the future. Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Regardless of merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and could cause significant expense and diversion of management attention. From time to time, we are involved in lawsuits concerning intellectual property, torts, contracts, shareholder litigation, administrative and regulatory proceedings and other matters, as well as governmental inquiries and investigations, the outcomes of which may be significant to our results of operations and may limit our ability to engage in our business activities. In recognition of these considerations, we have and may in the future enter into material settlements to avoid ongoing costs and efforts in defending or pursuing a matter. Should we fail to prevail in certain matters, or should several of these matters be resolved against us in the same reporting period, we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. While we have insurance related to our business operations, it may not apply to or fully cover liabilities we incur as a result of these lawsuits. We record accruals for liabilities where we believe a loss to be probable and reasonably estimable. However, our actual costs may differ materially from these estimates.

We face risks from international sales and business activities


•the imposition of and changes to governmental licensing restrictions and controls impacting our technology and products;

•restrictions and prohibitions on the export of technology and products, including any applicable changes in regulation prohibiting the sale of certain of our products to certain end users without a license;

•international trade restrictions;

•difficulty in collecting receivables and governmental restrictions with respect to currency;

•inadequate protection of intellectual property;


•labor union activities;

•changes in tariffs and taxes;

•restrictions on repatriation of earnings;

•restriction on the importation and exportation of goods and services;

•risks, costs, impacts and obligations associated with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA"), and other anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws applicable to us, and laws applicable to global trade and United States exports and costs and penalties from violations of such laws and related regulations, including the costs associated with required remedial and other increased compliance activity;

•difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; and

•instability in economic or political conditions, inflation, recession, actual or anticipated military or political conflicts, and potential impact due to the upcoming exit of the United Kingdom (the "U.K.") from the European Union (the "EU"), colloquially referred to as "Brexit".

Some of these factors recently have had an adverse impact on our sales and operations and increased our cost of doing business and subjected the business to additional rules, policies and procedures that impacted the operation of the Company. No assurance can be given that these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our future international sales and operations and, consequently, on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, compliance with complex foreign and United States laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business both in the United States and in international jurisdictions. These regulations include import and export laws, anti-competition laws, anti-corruption laws, such as the FCPA and the U.K. Bribery Act, and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, data privacy requirements, tax laws, and accounting, internal control and disclosure requirements. For example, on April 8, 2015, the Company and the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) entered into an agreement through entry of an Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (the “SEC Order”). The SEC Order settled charges under the FCPA with respect to incidents of improper travel and gifts involving FLIR’s Middle East operation. Pursuant to the SEC Order, we are obligated to “cease and desist” from committing any future violations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in civil and criminal fines, penalties and sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries, and could also materially affect our reputation, business and results of operations. In certain foreign jurisdictions, there is a higher risk of fraud or corruption and greater difficulty in maintaining effective internal controls and compliance programs. Further, although we have implemented and continue to implement policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies or applicable laws and regulations. 


As part of the Consent Agreement, DDTC acknowledged that we voluntarily disclosed certain of the alleged Arms Export Control Act and ITAR violations (which were resolved pursuant to the Consent Agreement), cooperated in DDTC’s review, and instituted a number of compliance program improvements.

In addition, our international contracts may include industrial cooperation agreements requiring specific in-country purchases, investments, manufacturing agreements or other financial obligations, known as offset obligations, and may provide for penalties if we fail to meet such requirements. The impact of these factors is difficult to predict, but one or more of them could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.


We face risks from Brexit

Brexit has created uncertainty about the future relationship between the U.K. and the EU. A draft withdrawal agreement was published in November 2018 but was rejected by the British Parliament and we are still uncertain about the final agreements they will reach on topics such as financial laws and regulations, tax and free trade agreements, immigration laws, and employment laws. The EU and U.K. have agreed to a further delay to Brexit until October 31, 2019, while the U.K. could leave earlier if a withdrawal agreement is ratified by the British Parliament. 

We have significant operations and a substantial workforce in Europe, a portion of which reside in the U.K. and therefore enjoy certain benefits based on the U.K.’s membership in the EU. The lack of clarity about Brexit and the future U.K. laws and regulations creates uncertainty for us, as the outcome of these negotiations may affect our business and operations. Additionally, there also is a risk that other countries may decide to leave the EU. The uncertainty surrounding Brexit not only potentially affects our business in the U.K. and the EU, but may have a material adverse effect on global economic conditions and the stability of global financial markets, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Additionally, any development that has the effect of devaluing the European euro or British pound sterling could meaningfully reduce the value of our assets and reduce the usefulness of liquidity alternatives denominated in that currency, such as our multicurrency credit facility.

We face risks from currency fluctuations

Historically, currency fluctuations have affected our operating results. Changes in the value of foreign currencies in which our sales or costs incurred are denominated have in the past caused, and could in the future cause, fluctuations in our operating results. We seek to reduce our exposure to currency fluctuations by denominating, where possible, our international sales in United States dollars, by balancing expenses and revenues in various currencies and by undertaking limited hedging of forecasted currency exposures. With respect to international sales denominated in United States dollars, a decrease in the value of foreign currencies relative to the United States dollar could make our products less price competitive.

We may not be successful in obtaining the necessary export licenses to conduct operations abroad and the United States government may prevent proposed sales to foreign governments and customers

Export licenses and other authorizations may be required from United States government agencies under the ITAR, the EAR, the Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) Regulations, the Trading with the Enemy Act of 1917, the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (“IEEPA”), the Arms Export Control Act of 1976 (“AECA”), and other similar laws and regulations for the sale, use and export of many of our products and related data and services. Thermal and infrared products and technical data have been subject to the ITAR and EAR, historically under United States Munitions List ("USML") Category XII and Commerce Control List ("CCL") Category 6. The United States Government’s export reform effort resulted in the transition of various Company products from the USML to the CCL, shifting the licensing requirements and restrictions for products regulated by the Department of Commerce under the EAR. This transition has increased the licensing requirements and restrictions on some products and reduced the requirements and restrictions on others. We can give no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining the necessary licenses from the United States Department of State or Department of Commerce required to conduct our business as presently or historically conducted. 


Although we have taken actions and continue to take additional actions necessary to implement policies and procedures to promote an improved compliance culture and programs, there is no guarantee that our actions will be effective or that government agencies will not view our actions and programs with heightened scrutiny, including as a result of events outside of our control. As a result, we may receive more restrictive provisos or limitations on new license requests, wholesale denials of our license requests, suspensions or terminations of our existing licenses, or delays in receiving new licenses resulting from requests for follow-up 


information, due diligence requests or additional limitations on our sale to third parties. We can give no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining necessary licenses required to facilitate our international business. Failures to obtain or delays in obtaining licenses may prevent or limit our ability to market, sell, export, or transfer our products outside the United States and has had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on our business and our operating results. 

General economic conditions may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition


In recent years, our performance has been negatively impacted by reduced spending by United States government agencies, global economic weakness, and the Eurozone crisis. Continuation of the conditions that led to reduced spending and potential further reductions in spending globally by either consumers or government agencies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, there is uncertainty around the implementation of Brexit and its impact on us and global economic conditions generally.

Our primary markets are volatile and unpredictable


•the timing, number and size of orders from, and shipments to, our customers, as well as the relative mix of those orders;

•variations in the volume of orders for a particular product or product line in a particular fiscal quarter;

•the size and timing of new contract awards;

•the timing of the release of government funds for procurement of our products; and

•the timing of orders and shipments within a given fiscal quarter.


•the seasonal pattern of contracting by the United States government and certain foreign governments;

•the desire of customers to take delivery of equipment prior to fiscal year ends due to funding considerations; and

•the tendency of commercial enterprises to utilize fully annual capital budgets prior to expiration.

Competition in our markets is intense and our failure to compete effectively could adversely affect our business

Competition in the diverse markets for our products is intense. The speed with which companies can identify new applications for thermal imaging, develop products to meet those needs and supply commercial quantities at low prices to the market are important competitive factors. We believe the principal competitive factors in our markets are product performance, price, customer service and training, product reputation, and effective marketing and sales efforts. Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, research and development, and marketing resources than we do. All of these factors, as well as the potential for increased competition from new market entrants, require us to continue to invest in, and focus on, research and development and new product innovation. No assurance can be given that we will be able to compete effectively in the future and a failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Our products may suffer from defects or errors leading to substantial product liability, damage or warranty claims

We include complex system designs and components in our products that may contain errors or defects, particularly when we incorporate new technology into our products or release new versions. If any of our products are defective, we might be required to redesign or recall those products or pay substantial damages or warranty claims. Such an event could result in significant expenses including expenses arising from product liability and warranty claims. It also could disrupt sales and affect our reputation and that of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As we expand our presence into new markets, we may face increased exposure to product liability claims. We maintain product liability insurance but cannot be certain that it will be sufficient or will continue to be available on acceptable terms.


Amounts included in our backlog may not result in actual revenues or translate into profits

Many contracts are subject to cancellation or suspension on short notice at the discretion of the customer, and the contracts in our backlog are subject to changes in the scope of services to be provided as well as adjustments to the costs relating to the contract. We have historically experienced variances in the components of backlog related to delivery delays or cancellations resulting from customer-specific circumstances, external market factors and economic factors beyond our control, and we may experience more delays or cancellations in the future. Accordingly, there is no assurance that backlog will actually be realized. If our backlog fails to materialize, we could experience a reduction in revenues and a decline in profitability, which could result in a deterioration of our financial position and liquidity.

Significant tariffs, restrictions on imports or other trade barriers between the United States and various countries, most significantly China, may impact our revenue and results of operations

In July 2018, the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative announced a list of Chinese imports that currently face tariffs of between ten and twenty-five percent. These tariffs currently affect some of the components of our products we import from China, and we may raise our prices on those products due to the tariffs or share the cost of such tariffs with our customers, which could harm our operating performance or cause our customers to seek alternative suppliers. It is possible that further tariffs may be imposed on our other imports, or that our business will be impacted by retaliatory trade measures taken by China or other countries in response to existing or future tariffs, causing us to raise prices or make changes to our operations, any of which could materially harm our revenue or operating results. In addition, we may seek to shift some of our manufacturing supply chain to other countries, which could result in disruption to our operations.

Risks, Uncertainties and Other Factors Related to Our Technology and Intellectual Property

Our inability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights and avoid infringing the rights of others could harm our competitive position and our business

Our ability to compete successfully and achieve future revenue growth depends, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technology and operate without infringing the rights of others. To accomplish this, we rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, confidentiality agreements and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. Many of our proprietary rights are held in confidence as trade secrets and are not covered by patents, making them more difficult to protect. Although we currently hold worldwide patents covering certain aspects of our technologies and products, and we are actively pursuing additional patents, we cannot be certain that we will obtain additional patents or trademarks on our technology, products and trade names. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that our patents or trademarks will not be challenged or circumvented by our competitors or that measures taken by us to protect our proprietary rights will adequately deter their misappropriation or disclosure. Any failure by us to protect our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, because intellectual property does not necessarily prevent our competitors from entering the markets we serve, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our competitive advantage or that our competitors will not develop capabilities equal or superior to ours.

Litigation over patents and other intellectual property is common in our industry. We have been the subject of patent and other intellectual property litigation in the past and cannot be sure that we will not be subject to such litigation in the future. Similarly, there exists the possibility we will assert claims in litigation to protect our intellectual property. Lawsuits defending or prosecuting intellectual property claims and related legal and administrative proceedings could result in substantial expense to us and significant diversion of effort of our personnel. An adverse determination in a patent suit or in any other proceeding in which we are a party could subject us to significant liabilities, result in the loss of intellectual property rights we claim or impact our competitive position. Additionally, an adverse determination could require us to seek licenses from third parties. If such licenses are not available on commercially reasonable terms or at all, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.

Our future success will depend on our ability to respond to the rapid technological change in the markets in which we compete, our ability to introduce new or enhanced products and enter into new markets

The markets in which we compete are characterized by rapid technological developments and frequent new product introductions, enhancements and modifications. Our ability to develop new products and technologies that anticipate changing customer requirements, reduce costs and otherwise retain or enhance our competitive position in existing and new markets will be an important factor in our future results from operations. We will continue to make substantial capital expenditures and incur significant research and development costs to improve our manufacturing capability, reduce costs, and develop and introduce new products and enhancements. If we fail to develop and introduce new products and technologies in a timely manner, our business, financial 


condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. In addition, we cannot be certain that our new products and technologies will be successful or that customers will accept any of our new products.

Our business could be negatively impacted by cybersecurity threats and other security threats and technology disruptions

We face certain security threats and technology disruptions, including threats to our information technology infrastructure, attempts to gain access to our or our customers’ proprietary or classified information, threats to the physical security of our facilities and employees, threats of terrorism events, and failures of our technology tools and systems. We are subject to laws and rules issued by various agencies concerning safeguarding and maintaining infrastructure and physical security and information confidentiality. Our information technology networks and related systems are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to successfully perform day-to-day operations. We are also involved with information technology systems for certain customers and other third parties, for which we face similar security threats as for our own. In particular, cybersecurity threats-which include, but are not limited to, computer viruses, spyware and malware, attempts to access information, denial of service attacks and other electronic security breaches-are persistent and evolve quickly. Such threats have increased in frequency, scope and potential impact in recent years. Further, a variety of technological tools and systems, including both company-owned information technology and technological services provided by outside parties, support our critical functions. These technologies, as well as our products, are subject to failure and the user’s inability to have such technologies properly supported, updated, expanded or integrated into other technologies and may contain open source and third party software which may unbeknownst to us contain defects or viruses that pose unintended risks to our customers. These risks if not effectively mitigated or controlled could materially harm our business or reputation. While we believe that we have implemented appropriate measures, controls, and risk transfer mechanisms, there can be no assurance that such actions will be sufficient to prevent disruptions to critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential information, corruption of data, or financial loss.

We require user names and passwords in order to access our information technology systems. We use encryption and authentication technologies designed to secure the transmission and storage of data and prevent access to our data or accounts. These security measures are subject to third-party security breaches, employee error, malfeasance, faulty password management or other irregularities. For example, third parties may attempt to induce by fraud employees or customers into disclosing user names, passwords or other sensitive information, which may in turn be used to access our information technology systems. These security systems cannot provide absolute security. To the extent we were to experience a breach of our systems and were unable to protect sensitive data, such a breach could materially damage business partner and customer relationships, and curtail or otherwise impact the use of our information technology systems. Moreover, if a security breach of our information technology system affects our computer systems or results in the release of personally identifiable or other sensitive information of customers, business partners, employees and other third parties, our reputation and brand could be materially damaged, use of our products and services could decrease, and we could be exposed to a risk of loss, litigation and potential liability.

Although we have in the past and continue to be subject to cybersecurity threats and other security threats and technology disruptions, to date none has had a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Nonetheless, in the future, these types of events could disrupt our operations and customer and other third party information technology systems. They also could require significant management attention and resources, negatively impact our reputation among our customers and the public and challenge our eligibility for future work on sensitive or classified systems, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Risks, Uncertainties and Other Factors Related to Our Corporate Structure and Organization

Our future success depends in part on attracting and retaining key senior management and qualified technical, sales and other personnel

Our future success depends in part on the efforts and continued services of our key executives and our ability to attract and retain qualified technical, sales and other personnel. Significant competition exists for such personnel and we cannot assure the retention of our key executives, technical and sales personnel or our ability to attract, integrate and retain other such personnel that may be required in the future. We cannot assure that employees will not leave and subsequently compete against us. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.

We must successfully manage a complex global organization

As we have grown, the size and scope of our worldwide operations have also increased substantially. We currently design, manufacture and market numerous product lines in locations worldwide. Significant management time and effort is required to manage effectively the increased complexity of the business and our failure to successfully do so could have a material adverse 


effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our inability to continue to manufacture our products at one or more of our facilities as a result of, for example, a prolonged power outage, earthquake, fire or other natural disaster, or labor or political unrest, could prevent us from supplying products to our customers and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We may be unable to integrate successfully recent or future acquisitions into our operations, thereby disrupting our business and harming our financial condition and results of operations

We have made eleven acquisitions of various sizes in the past five years. The integration of businesses, personnel, product lines and technologies can be difficult, time consuming and subject to significant risks. For example, we could lose key personnel from companies that we acquire, incur unanticipated costs, lose major sources of revenue, fail to integrate critical technologies, suffer business disruptions, fail to capture anticipated synergies, fail to establish satisfactory internal controls, or incur unanticipated liabilities. Any of these difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses and decrease our revenue.

We frequently evaluate strategic opportunities available to us and it is likely that we will make additional acquisitions in the future. Such acquisitions may vary in size and complexity. Any future acquisitions are subject to the risks described above. Furthermore, we might assume or incur additional debt or issue additional equity securities to pay for future acquisitions. Additional debt may negatively impact our results and increase our financial risk, and the issuance of any additional equity securities could dilute our then existing shareholders’ ownership. No assurance can be given that we will realize anticipated benefits of any future acquisitions, or that any such acquisition or investment will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We have indebtedness as a result of the issuance of our 3.125 percent senior unsecured notes (the “Notes”) and borrowings against our unsecured credit facility, and we are subject to certain restrictive covenants under our unsecured credit facility and the indenture governing the Notes, and changes in the rate at which we can obtain indebtedness, any of which may limit our operational and financial flexibility

Our ability to meet our debt service obligations and comply with the financial covenants under our credit facility will be dependent upon our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. Our inability to meet our debt service obligations or comply with the required covenants could result in a default under the credit facility or indenture. In the event of any such default, under the credit facility, the lenders thereunder could elect to declare all outstanding debt, accrued interest and fees under the facility to be due and immediately payable. In the event of any such default under our indenture, either the trustee or the holders of at least 25 percent of the outstanding principal amount of the Notes could declare the principal amount of all of the Notes to be due and payable immediately. Our indebtedness may use LIBOR as a benchmark for establishing the interest rate. LIBOR is the subject of recent national, international and other regulatory guidance and proposals for reform. The consequences of these developments cannot be entirely predicted, but if LIBOR is no longer available or if our lenders have increased costs due to changes in LIBOR, it could adversely impact our interest expense, results of operations and cash flows.

We may not be able to refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms, if at all, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and our ongoing results of operations

Our ability to refinance indebtedness, including the Notes, will depend in part on our operating and financial performance, which, in turn, is subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. In addition, prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing could increase our interest expense. A refinancing of our indebtedness, including the Notes, could also require us to comply with more onerous covenants and further restrict our business operations. Our inability to refinance our indebtedness or to do so upon favorable terms could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and make us vulnerable to adverse industry and general economic conditions.

We are effectively self-insured against many potential liabilities

Although we maintain insurance policies with respect to a broad range of risks, including automobile liability, general liability, workers’ compensation and employee group health, these policies do not cover all possible claims and certain of the policies are subject to large deductibles. Accordingly, we are effectively self-insured for a substantial number of actual and potential claims. In addition, if any of our insurance carriers defaulted on its obligations to provide insurance coverage by reason of its insolvency or for other reasons, our exposure to claims would increase and our profits would be adversely affected. Our estimates for unpaid 



Changes in our effective income tax rate may have an adverse effect on our results of operations

We are subject to taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions, including Belgium, where a number of our subsidiaries are organized. Due to economic and political conditions, tax rates in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change. Our future effective tax rate could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with different statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in the enforcement environment, and changes in tax laws or their interpretations, in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions. 


•the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed;

•the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities;

•changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities;

•adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns;

•increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes;

•changes in available tax credits;

•changes in share-based compensation expense;

•changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws and changes in generally accepted accounting principles;


•the repatriation of earnings from outside the United States for which we have not previously provided for United States taxes.


New tax legislation, commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”), was enacted on December 22, 2017. The Tax Act, among other things, (i) permanently reduces the U.S. corporate income tax rate to 21 percent beginning in 2018, (ii) provides for a five year period of 100 percent bonus depreciation followed by a phase-down of the bonus depreciation percentage, and (iii) provides for more general changes to the taxation of corporations, including changes to the deductibility of interest expense, the adoption of a modified territorial tax system, assessing a repatriation tax or “toll-charge” on undistributed earnings and profits of U.S.-owned foreign corporations, and introducing certain anti-base erosion provisions. The long-term impact of the Tax Act on the general economy cannot be reliably predicted at this time and continues to require rule-making and interpretation in a number of areas.


The Tax Act requires complex computations not previously required by U.S. tax law. As such, the application of certain accounting guidance is currently evolving. Further, compliance with the Tax Act and the accounting for certain provisions require accumulation of information not previously required or regularly produced. As additional interpretative guidance is issued by the applicable authorities, we will continue our analysis on the application of the Tax Act and may need to revise our current estimates in future periods. The revisions to our current estimates could materially affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial position.

State of Oregon law and our charter documents contain provisions that could discourage or prevent a potential takeover, even if the transaction would benefit our shareholders

Other companies may seek to acquire or merge with us. An acquisition or merger of our Company could result in benefits to our shareholders, including an increase in the value of our common stock. Some provisions of our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, including our ability to issue preferred stock without further action by our shareholders, as well as provisions of the State of Oregon law, may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a shareholder may consider favorable.


ITEM 2.UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS



All share repurchases are subject to applicable securities law, and are at times and in amounts as management deems appropriate. These repurchases were through open market transactions under the authorization by our Board of Directors on February 7, 2019 to repurchase of up to 15.0 million shares of our outstanding common stock. This authorization will expire on February 7, 2021.

ITEM 3. DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIES

None.

ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES

Not applicable.

ITEM 5.OTHER INFORMATION

None.


ITEM 6.EXHIBITS



SIGNATURE

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


