

United States 

Securities and Exchange Commission 




For the quarterly period ended September 28, 2019 

or 


For the transition period from  to  

Commission file number 0-31983 

GARMIN LTD. 






Indicate by check mark whether the Company (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Company was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. 


Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files). 


Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer”, “accelerated filer”, “smaller reporting company” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 



Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). 


Number of shares outstanding of the registrant’s common shares as of October 28, 2019 


Garmin Ltd. 


Quarter Ended September 28, 2019 

Table of Contents 


i 

Part I - Financial Information 

Item I - Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements 

Garmin Ltd. And Subsidiaries 

Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (Unaudited) 



See accompanying notes. 


Garmin Ltd. And Subsidiaries 

Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income (Unaudited) 



See accompanying notes. 


Garmin Ltd. And Subsidiaries 

Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Unaudited) 



See accompanying notes. 


Garmin Ltd. And Subsidiaries 

Condensed Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity (Unaudited) 

For the 13-Weeks Ended September 28, 2019 and September 29, 2018 


Common Stock 

Additional Paid-In Capital  

Treasury Stock  

Retained Earnings 

 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) 



See accompanying notes. 


Garmin Ltd. And Subsidiaries 

Condensed Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity (Unaudited) 

For the 39-Weeks Ended September 28, 2019 and September 29, 2018 




See accompanying notes. 


Garmin Ltd. And Subsidiaries 

Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited) 



See accompanying notes. 


Garmin Ltd. and Subsidiaries 

Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 




Basis of Presentation 

The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X. Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by generally accepted accounting principles for complete financial statements. In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring accruals) considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included. Additionally, the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with Item 2 of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, included in this Form 10-Q. Operating results for the 13-week and 39-week periods ended September 28, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the year ending December 28, 2019. 

The Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 29, 2018 has been derived from the audited financial statements at that date but does not include all of the information and footnotes required by generally accepted accounting principles for complete financial statements. For further information, refer to the Consolidated Financial Statements and footnotes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 29, 2018. 

The Company’s fiscal year is based on a 52-53 week period ending on the last Saturday of the calendar year. Therefore, the financial results of certain 53-week fiscal years, and the associated 14-week quarters, will not be exactly comparable to the prior and subsequent 52-week fiscal years and the associated 13-week quarters. The quarters ended September 28, 2019 and September 29, 2018 both contain operating results for 13 weeks. 

Recently Adopted Accounting Standards 

Leases 

In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) (“ASU 2016-02”), which sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases for both lessees and lessors. The FASB subsequently issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2018-10 and Accounting Standards Update No. 2018-11 in July 2018, which provide clarifications and improvements to ASU 2016-02 (collectively, the “new lease standard”). Accounting Standards Update No. 2018-11 also provides the optional transition method which allows companies to apply the new lease standard at the adoption date instead of at the earliest comparative period presented. The new lease standard requires lessees to present a right-of-use asset and a corresponding lease liability on the balance sheet. 

The Company adopted the new lease standard as of the beginning of the 2019 fiscal year using the optional transition method. The Company did not have a cumulative effect adjustment to retained earnings as a result of adopting the new lease standard and does not expect the new lease standard to have a material impact on the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income or Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in future periods. The Company elected the package of transitional practical expedients upon adoption which, among other provisions, allowed the Company to carry forward historical lease classification. See Note 11 – Leases for additional information regarding leases. 


Significant Accounting Policies 

For a description of the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, refer to Note 2, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2018. Other than the policy discussed below, there were no material changes to the Company’s significant accounting policies during the 39-week period ended September 28, 2019. 

Preproduction Costs Related to Long-Term Supply Arrangements 

Preproduction design and development costs related to long-term supply arrangements are expensed as incurred, and classified as Research and development, unless the customer has provided a contractual guarantee for reimbursement of such costs. Contractually reimbursable costs are capitalized as incurred in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets within Prepaid expenses and other current assets if reimbursement is expected to be received within one year, or within Other assets if expected to be received beyond one year. Such capitalized costs were approximately $22 million as of September 28, 2019, and there were no such capitalized costs as of December 29, 2018. 









There were 398 and 266 anti-dilutive stock options, stock appreciation rights and restricted stock units (collectively “equity awards”) outstanding during the 13-week and 39-week periods ended September 28, 2019, respectively, and no anti-dilutive equity awards outstanding during the 13-week and 39-week periods ended September 29, 2018. 

There were less than 1 net shares issued as a result of exercises and releases of equity awards for the 13-week period ended September 28, 2019, and there were 12 net shares issued as a result of exercises and releases of equity awards for the 13-week period ended September 29, 2018. 

There were 396 and 390 net shares issued as a result of exercises and releases of equity awards for the 39-week periods ended September 28, 2019 and September 29, 2018, respectively. 

There were 245 employee stock purchase plan (ESPP) shares issued from outstanding Treasury stock during the 39-week period ended September 28, 2019. 

There were 230 ESPP shares issued from outstanding Treasury stock during the 39-week period ended September 29, 2018. 


The Company has identified five reportable segments – auto, aviation, fitness, marine, and outdoor. The Company’s Chief Executive Officer, who has been identified as the Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM), uses operating income as the measure of profit or loss to assess segment performance and allocate resources. Operating income represents net sales less costs of goods sold and operating expenses. Net sales are directly attributed to each segment. Most costs of goods sold and the majority of operating expenses are also directly attributed to each segment, while certain other costs of goods sold and operating expenses are allocated to the segments in a manner appropriate to the specific facts and circumstances of the expenses being allocated. 

In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the methodology used to allocate certain selling, general, and administrative expenses to the segments was refined, endeavoring to provide the Company’s CODM with a more meaningful representation of segment profit or loss in light of the evolution of its segments. The Company’s composition of operating segments and reportable segments did not change. Prior year amounts are presented here as they were originally reported, as it is not practicable to accurately restate prior period activity in accordance with the refined allocation methodology. For comparative purposes, we estimate operating income for the 13-weeks ended September 29, 2018 would have been approximately $4 million less for the aviation segment, approximately $2 million more for the marine segment, approximately $2 million more for the outdoor segment, and not significantly different for the auto and fitness segments. We estimate operating income for the 39-weeks ended September 29, 2018 would have been approximately $13 million less for the aviation segment, approximately $10 million more for the marine segment, approximately $3 million more for the outdoor segment, and not significantly different for the auto and fitness segments. 


Net sales (“revenue”), gross profit, and operating income for each of the Company’s reportable segments are presented below. 



Americas [Member] 

EMEA [Member] 



Net property and equipment by geographic region as of September 28, 2019 and September 29, 2018 are presented below. 



Warranty Reserves Textual 

The Company’s products sold are generally covered by a standard warranty for periods ranging from one to three years. The Company’s estimates of costs to service its warranty obligations are based on historical experience and management’s expectations and judgments of future conditions, and are recorded as a liability on the balance sheet. The following reconciliation provides an illustration of changes in the aggregate warranty reserve. 



 (1)Changes in cost estimates related to pre-existing warranties are not material and aggregated with accruals for new warranty contracts in the ‘accrual for products sold during the period’ line.  


Commitments 

The Company is party to certain commitments, which include purchases of raw materials, advertising expenditures, and other indirect purchases in connection with conducting our business. The aggregate amount of purchase orders and other commitments open as of September 28, 2019 was approximately $467,300. We cannot determine the aggregate amount of such purchase orders that represent contractual obligations because purchase orders may represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements. Our purchase orders are based on our current needs and are typically fulfilled within short periods of time. 

Contingencies 

In the normal course of business, the Company and its subsidiaries are parties to various legal claims, investigations and complaints, including matters alleging patent infringement and other intellectual property claims. The Company evaluates, on a quarterly and annual basis, developments in legal proceedings, investigations, claims, and other loss contingencies that could affect any required accrual or disclosure or estimate of reasonably possible loss or range of loss. An estimated loss from a loss contingency is accrued by a charge to income if it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. If a range of loss is estimated, and some amount within that range appears to be a better estimate than any other amount within that range, then that amount is accrued. If no amount within the range can be identified as a better estimate than any other amount, the Company accrues the minimum amount in the range. 



Management of the Company currently does not believe it is reasonably possible that the Company may have incurred a material loss, or a material loss in excess of recorded accruals, with respect to loss contingencies in the aggregate, for the fiscal quarter ended September 28, 2019. The results of legal proceedings, investigations and claims, however, cannot be predicted with certainty. An adverse resolution of one or more of such matters in excess of management’s expectations could have a material adverse effect in the particular quarter or fiscal year in which a loss is recorded, but based on information currently known, the Company does not believe it is likely that losses from such matters would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business or its consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 

The Company settled or resolved certain matters during the 13-week and 39-week periods ended September 28, 2019 that did not individually or in the aggregate have a material impact on the Company’s business or its consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 


The Company recorded income tax expense of $29,901 in the 13-week period ended September 28, 2019, compared to income tax expense of $17,113 in the 13-week period ended September 29, 2018. The effective tax rate was 11.6% in the third quarter of 2019, compared to 8.5% in the third quarter of 2018. The 310 basis points increase to the third quarter of 2019 effective tax rate compared to the prior year quarter is primarily due to a decrease in uncertain tax position reserves released due to expiring statutes of limitations in the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018. 

The Company recorded income tax expense of $108,115 in the first three quarters of 2019, compared to income tax expense of $87,445 in the first three quarters of 2018. The effective tax rate was 15.4% in the first three quarters of 2019, compared to 14.8% in the first three quarters of 2018. 



 Level 1Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for the identical asset or liability  


 Level 2Observable inputs for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active, or inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability  

 Level 3Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability  

The Company endeavors to utilize the best available information in measuring fair value. Financial assets and liabilities are classified in their entirety based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. Valuation is based on prices obtained from an independent pricing vendor using both market and income approaches. The primary inputs to the valuation include quoted prices for similar assets in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets in markets that are not active, contractual cash flows, benchmark yields, and credit spreads. 

The method described above may produce a fair value calculation that may not be indicative of net realizable value or reflective of future fair values. Furthermore, while the Company believes its valuation methods are appropriate and consistent with other market participants, the use of different methodologies or assumptions to determine the fair value of certain financial instruments could result in a different fair value measurement at the reporting date.  


U.S.Treasury Securities [Member] 

Agency Securities [Member] 

Mortgage-Backed Securities [Member] 

Corporate Securities [Member] 

Municipal Securities [Member] 

Other [Member] 

Recurring Basis [Member]  







The Company’s investment policy targets low risk investments with the objective of minimizing the potential risk of principal loss. The fair value of our securities varies from period to period due to changes in interest rates, in the performance of the underlying collateral and in the credit performance of the underlying issuer, among other factors. The Company does not intend to sell the securities that have an unrealized loss shown in the table above, and it is not more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell a security before recovery of its amortized costs basis, which may be maturity. 

The Company recognizes the credit component of other-than-temporary impairments of debt securities in “Other Income” and the noncredit component in “Other comprehensive income (loss)” for those securities that we do not intend to sell and for which it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell before recovery. During 2018 and the 39-week period ended September 28, 2019, the Company did not record any material impairment charges on its outstanding securities. 

The amortized cost and fair value of the securities at an unrealized loss position as of September 28, 2019 were $626,766 and $619,662, respectively. Approximately 44% of securities in our portfolio were at an unrealized loss position as of September 28, 2019. We have the ability to hold these securities until maturity or their value is recovered. We do not consider these unrealized losses to be other than temporary credit losses because there has been no material deterioration in credit quality and no change in the cash flows of the underlying securities. We do not intend to sell the securities and it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell the securities; therefore, no material impairment has been recorded in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income. 


The cost of securities sold is based on the specific identification method. 

The following tables display additional information regarding gross unrealized losses and fair value by major security type for available-for-sale securities in an unrealized loss position as of September 28, 2019 and December 29, 2018. 



The amortized cost and fair value of marketable securities at September 28, 2019, by maturity, are shown below. 



 9.Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income  





Accumulated Net Investment Gain (Loss) Attributable to Parent Reclassification from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income [Member] 





In order to further depict how the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of our revenue and cash flows are affected by economic factors, we disaggregate revenue (or “net sales”) by geographic region, major product category, and pattern of recognition. 

Disaggregated revenue by geographic region (Americas, APAC, and EMEA) is presented in Note 4 – Segment Information. The Company has identified six major product categories – auto PND, auto OEM, aviation, fitness, marine, and outdoor. Note 4 contains disaggregated revenue information of the aviation, fitness, marine, and outdoor major product categories. Auto segment revenue presented in Note 4 is comprised of the auto PND and auto OEM major product categories, as depicted below. 

Auto PND [Member] 



Point in time [Member] 

Over time [Member] 





 (1)Deferred revenue is comprised of both Deferred revenue and Noncurrent deferred revenue per the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets  

 (2)Deferred costs are comprised of both Deferred costs and Noncurrent deferred costs per the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets  

Of the $133,044 of deferred revenue recognized in the 39-weeks ended September 28, 2019, $78,092 was deferred as of the beginning of the period. 

Approximately two-thirds of the $165,172 of deferred revenue at the end of the period, September 28, 2019, is recognized ratably over a period of three years or less. 


Leases Textual 

The Company leases certain real estate properties, vehicles, and equipment in various countries around the world. Leased properties are typically used for office space, distribution, and retail. The Company’s leases are classified as operating leases with remaining terms of 1 to 34 years, some of which include an option to extend or renew. If the exercise of an option to extend or renew is determined to be reasonably certain, the associated right-of-use asset and lease liability reflects the extended period and payments. For all real estate leases, any non-lease components, including common area maintenance, have been separated from lease components and excluded from the associated right-of-use asset and lease liability calculations. For all equipment and vehicle leases, an accounting policy election has been made to not separate lease and non-lease components. 

Leases with an initial term of 12 months or less (“short-term leases”) are not recognized on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as a right-of-use asset or lease liability. 

The following table represents lease costs recognized in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income for the 13-weeks and 39-weeks ended September 28, 2019. Lease costs are included in Selling, general and administrative expense and Research and development expense on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income. 


 (1)Operating lease cost includes short-term lease costs and variable lease costs, which were not material in the periods presented.  


The following table represents the components of leases that are recognized on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as of September 28, 2019. 


The following table represents the maturity of lease liabilities. 


The following table presents supplemental cash flow and noncash information related to leases. 


 (2)Included in Net cash provided by operating activities on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.  

 12.Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted  

Financial Instruments – Credit Losses 


Receivables – Nonrefundable Fees and Other Costs 



Switzerland corporate tax reform was approved by public referendum in May 2019 and enacted in October 2019. Accordingly, the Company expects to record an income tax benefit of approximately $20 to $220 million in the fourth quarter of 2019 due to an increase in certain Switzerland deferred tax assets resulting from enactment of Switzerland Federal and Schaffhausen cantonal tax reform. The Company is evaluating transitional measures in Switzerland tax law that may affect the overall increase in deferred tax assets as well as the impact of tax reform to its ongoing effective tax rate, the materiality of which is not yet known. 


Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

Overview 

The discussion set forth below, as well as other portions of this Quarterly Report, contains statements concerning potential future events. Such forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions by management, as of the date of this Quarterly Report, including assumptions about risks and uncertainties faced by the Company. Readers can identify these forward-looking statements by their use of such verbs as expects, anticipates, believes or similar verbs or conjugations of such verbs. If any of the Company’s assumptions prove incorrect or should unanticipated circumstances arise, actual results could materially differ from those anticipated by such forward-looking statements. The differences could be caused by a number of factors or combination of factors including, but not limited to, those factors identified in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 29, 2018. This report has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC” or the “Commission”) in Washington, D.C. and can be obtained by contacting the SEC’s public reference operations or obtaining it through the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov. Readers are strongly encouraged to consider those factors when evaluating any forward-looking statement concerning the Company. The Company will not update any forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report to reflect future events or developments. 

The information contained in this Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in this Form 10-Q and the audited financial statements and notes thereto in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 29, 2018. 

The Company is a leading worldwide provider of navigation, communications and information devices, most of which are enabled by Global Positioning System, or GPS, technology. We operate in five reportable segments, which serve the outdoor, fitness, marine, auto and aviation markets. The Company’s segments offer consumer products through its network of subsidiary distributors and independent dealers and distributors and some also maintain relationships with original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). However, the nature of products and types of customers for the five segments may vary significantly. As such, the segments are managed separately. 


Results of Operations 




The segment table located in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements sets forth the Company’s results of operations (in thousands) including net sales, gross profit, and operating income for each of the Company’s five segments during the periods shown. For each line item in the table, the total of the outdoor, fitness, marine, auto, and aviation segments’ amounts equals the amount in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income included in Item 1. 

As indicated in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the methodology used to allocate certain selling, general, and administrative expenses was refined in the first quarter of 2019. The amounts presented below for the 13-weeks and 39-weeks ended September 29, 2018 are presented here as they were originally reported. 


Comparison of 13-Weeks ended September 28, 2019 and September 29, 2018  


Net Sales 


Net sales increased 15% for the 13-week period ended September 28, 2019 when compared to the year-ago quarter. The outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segments collectively increased by 24%, contributing 85% of total revenue. Outdoor was the largest portion of our revenue mix at 28% in the third quarter of 2019 compared to 26% in the third quarter of 2018. 

Total unit sales in the third quarter of 2019 increased to 3,659 when compared to total unit sales of 3,527 in the third quarter of 2018. 

Outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segment revenue increased 23%, 28%, 9%, and 28%, respectively, when compared to the year-ago quarter. The outdoor segment revenue increase was driven by sales growth in multiple product categories, led primarily by adventure watches. The fitness segment revenue increase was primarily driven by strong sales in wearables and sales from Tacx, a newly acquired group of subsidiaries that designs and manufactures indoor bike trainers. The current quarter marine segment revenue increase was driven by sales growth in multiple product categories, led primarily by chartplotters. The aviation segment revenue increase was driven by sales growth in both OEM and aftermarket categories. Auto segment revenue decreased 17% from the year-ago quarter, primarily due to lower OEM sales in the current quarter and the ongoing PND market contraction. 

Gross Profit 


Gross profit dollars in the third quarter of 2019 increased 18%, primarily due to growth in net sales along with a gross margin increase of 140 basis points compared to the year-ago quarter. Gross margin increased in the auto segment, was relatively flat in the outdoor and marine segments, and decreased in the fitness and aviation segments when compared to the year-ago quarter. 

The auto segment gross margin increase of 490 basis points was primarily attributable to lower license expense. A portion of license expense favorability in the auto segment is expected to continue for the remainder of the year. Gross margin remained relatively flat within the outdoor and marine segments. The fitness and aviation segment gross margin decreases were primarily attributable to product mix. 


Advertising Expense 


Advertising expense as a percent of revenue was relatively flat when compared to the year-ago quarter and increased 5% in absolute dollars. The total absolute dollar increase was primarily attributable to increased cooperative advertising in the outdoor, fitness, and marine segments, partially offset by decreased cooperative advertising in the auto and aviation segments. 

Selling, General and Administrative Expense 


Selling, general and administrative expense increased 9% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter. The absolute dollar increase in the third quarter of 2019 was primarily attributable to personnel costs and expenses from recent acquisitions. The fitness segment decrease as a percent of revenue was primarily due to greater leverage of operating costs. 

As noted above and in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company refined its methodology to allocate certain selling, general and administrative expenses in the beginning of the 2019 fiscal year. The prior year amounts are presented here as originally reported. For comparative purposes, we estimate selling, general and administrative expenses for the third quarter of 2018 would have been approximately $4 million more for the aviation segment, approximately $2 million less for the marine segment, approximately $2 million less for the outdoor segment, and not significantly different for the fitness and auto segments. Selling, general and administrative expense as a percent of revenue also decreased in the outdoor and marine segments due to greater leverage of operating costs. 

Considering the refined allocation methodology noted above, we estimate selling, general and administrative expenses for the 52-weeks ended December 29, 2018 would have been approximately $18 million more for the aviation segment, approximately $11 million less for the marine segment, approximately $7 million less for the outdoor segment, and not significantly different for the fitness and auto segments. 

Research and Development Expense 



Research and development expense as a percent of revenue decreased 130 basis points when compared to the year-ago quarter and increased 7% in absolute dollars. The absolute dollar increase was primarily due to higher engineering personnel costs related to wearable and aviation product offerings and expenses resulting from recent acquisitions, partially offset by the capitalization of certain contractually reimbursable preproduction design and development personnel costs within the auto segment. Our research and development spending is focused on product development, improving existing software capabilities, and exploring new categories. 

Operating Income 


Operating income increased 33% in absolute dollars and 380 basis points as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago quarter. In the current quarter, the operating income growth in absolute dollars and as a percent of revenue was primarily attributable to revenue growth, improved gross margin, and greater leverage of operating expenses, as discussed above. 

Other Income (Expense)  



Foreign currency gains and losses for the Company are typically driven by movements in the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling in relation to the U.S. Dollar. The Taiwan Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin Corporation, the U.S. Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin (Europe) Ltd., and the Euro is the functional currency of most of our other European subsidiaries, although some transactions and balances are denominated in British Pounds. The majority of the Company’s consolidated foreign currency gain or loss is typically driven by the significant cash and marketable securities, receivables and payables held in a currency other than the functional currency at a given legal entity. Due to the relative size of the entities using a functional currency other than the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling, currency fluctuations related to these entities are not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial statements. 

The $16.3 million currency loss recognized in the third quarter of 2019 was primarily due to the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Euro and British Pound Sterling, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Taiwan Dollar, within the 13-weeks ended September 28, 2019. During this period, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 3.8% against the Euro and 3.2% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in losses of $9.8 million and $1.5 million, respectively, while the U.S. Dollar strengthened 0.3% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a gain of $1.2 million. The remaining net currency loss of $6.2 million was related to the timing of transactions and impacts of other currencies, each of which was individually immaterial. 

The $6.9 million currency loss recognized in the third quarter of 2018 was primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against the Euro and British Pound Sterling within the 13-weeks ended September 29, 2018. During this period, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 0.7% against the Euro and 1.3% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in losses of $2.7 million and $0.6 million, respectively, while the U.S. Dollar remained relatively flat against the Taiwan Dollar. The remaining net currency loss of $3.6 million was related to the timing of transactions and impacts of other currencies, each of which was individually immaterial. 


Income Tax Provision  

The Company recorded income tax expense of $29.9 million in the 13-week period ended September 28, 2019, compared to income tax expense of $17.1 million in the 13-week period ended September 29, 2018. The effective tax rate was 11.6% in the third quarter of 2019, compared to 8.5% in the third quarter of 2018. The 310 basis points increase to the third quarter of 2019 effective tax rate compared to the prior year quarter is primarily due to a decrease in uncertain tax position reserves released due to expiring statutes of limitations in the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018. 

As discussed in Note 13 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, Switzerland corporate tax reform was approved by public referendum in May 2019 and enacted in October 2019. Accordingly, the Company expects to record an income tax benefit of approximately $20 to $220 million in the fourth quarter of 2019 due to an increase in certain Switzerland deferred tax assets resulting from enactment of Switzerland Federal and Schaffhausen cantonal tax reform. The Company is evaluating transitional measures in Switzerland tax law that may affect the overall increase in deferred tax assets as well as the impact of tax reform to its ongoing effective tax rate, the materiality of which is not yet known. 

Net Income  

As a result of the above, net income for the 13-weeks ended September 28, 2019 was $227.9 million compared to $184.2 million for the 13-week period ended September 28, 2018, an increase of $43.7 million. 

Comparison of 39-Weeks Ended September 28, 2019 and 39-Weeks Ended September 29, 2018 

Net Sales 


Net sales increased 10% for the 39-week period ended September 28, 2019 when compared to the year-ago period. The outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segments collectively increased by 16%, contributing 84% of total revenue. Fitness was the largest portion of our revenue mix at 25% in the first three quarters of 2019 compared to 24% in the first three quarters of 2018. 

Total unit sales in the first three quarters of 2019 increased to 10,678 when compared to the total unit sales of 10,266 in the first three quarters of 2018. 

Outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segment revenues increased 12%, 16%, 13%, and 22%, respectively, when compared to the year-ago period. The outdoor segment revenue increase was primarily driven by strong sales in adventure watches, golf and inReach product lines. Fitness segment revenue increases were primarily driven by strong sales in wearables and sales from newly acquired Tacx. Marine segment revenue increases were driven by sales growth in multiple product categories, led primarily by chartplotters and sonar products. The aviation segment revenue increase was driven by sales growth in both OEM and aftermarket categories. Auto segment revenue decreased 13% from the year-ago period, primarily due to the ongoing PND market contraction. 


Gross Profit 


Gross profit dollars in the 39-week period ended September 28, 2019 increased 11% while gross margin remained relatively flat compared to the year-ago period. Gross margin increased 430 basis points in the auto segment when compared to the year-ago period, primarily attributable to lower license expense and product mix. A portion of license expense favorability in the auto segment is expected to continue for the remainder of the year. Gross margin remained relatively flat within the outdoor, marine, and aviation segments. Gross margin decreased in the fitness segment primarily due to lower average selling prices and product mix. 

Advertising Expense 


Advertising expense increased 2% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago period. Increased cooperative advertising in the outdoor, fitness, and marine segments and increased media advertising in the outdoor segment was partially offset by decreased cooperative advertising in the auto and aviation segments. 

Selling, General and Administrative Expense 


Selling, general and administrative expense increased 8% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago period. The absolute dollar increase was primarily attributable to personnel costs, legal related costs, and expenses from recent acquisitions. The fitness segment increase as a percent of revenue was primarily due to expenses from newly acquired Tacx. 

As noted above and in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company refined its methodology to allocate certain selling, general and administrative expenses in the beginning of the 2019 fiscal year. The prior year amounts are presented here as originally reported. For comparative purposes, we estimate selling, general and administrative expenses for the first three quarters of 2018 would have been approximately $13 million more for the aviation segment, approximately $10 million less for the marine segment, approximately $3 million less for the outdoor segment, and not significantly different for the fitness and auto segments. Selling, general and administrative expense as a percent of revenue also decreased in marine due to greater leverage of operating costs. 


Considering the refined allocation methodology noted above, we estimate selling, general and administrative expenses for the 52-weeks ended December 29, 2018 would have been approximately $18 million more for the aviation segment, approximately $11 million less for the marine segment, approximately $7 million less for the outdoor segment, and not significantly different for the fitness and auto segments. 

Research and Development Expense 


Research and development expense as a percent of revenue was relatively flat when compared to the year-ago period and increased 5% in absolute dollars. The absolute dollar increase in research and development expenses when compared with the year-ago period was primarily due to engineering personnel costs related to our wearable and aviation product offerings and expenses resulting from recent acquisitions, partially offset by the capitalization of certain contractually reimbursable preproduction design and development personnel costs within the auto segment. Our research and development spending is focused on product development, improving existing software capabilities, and exploring new categories. 

Operating Income 


Operating income increased 20% in absolute dollars and increased 220 basis points as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago period. The growth in operating income on an absolute dollar basis and as a percent of revenue was the result of revenue growth, improved gross margin, and greater leverage of operating expenses, as discussed above. 

Other Income (Expense)  




The $12.6 million currency loss recognized in the first three quarters of 2019 was primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against most other currencies, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Taiwan Dollar within the 39-weeks ended September 28, 2019. During this period, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 1.5% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a gain of $8.6 million. This was more than offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening 4.4% against the Euro and 3.3% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in losses of $13.9 million and $0.9 million, respectively, and additional net currency losses of $6.4 million related to the timing of transactions and impacts of other currencies, each of which was individually immaterial. 

The $3.4 million currency loss recognized in the first three quarters of 2018 was primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against most other currencies, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Taiwan Dollar within the 39-weeks ended September 29, 2018. During this period, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 2.7% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a gain of $13.6 million. This was more than offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening 3.2% against the Euro and 3.6% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in losses of $7.7 million and $0.6 million, respectively, and additional net currency losses of $8.7 million related to the timing of transactions and impacts of other currencies, each of which was individually immaterial. 

Income Tax Provision  

The Company recorded income tax expense of $108.1 million in the first three quarters of 2019, compared to income tax expense of $87.4 million in the first three quarters of 2018. The effective tax rate was 15.4% in the first three quarters of 2019, compared to 14.8% in the first three quarters of 2018. 

As discussed in Note 13 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, Switzerland corporate tax reform was approved by public referendum in May 2019 and enacted in October 2019. Accordingly, the Company expects to record an income tax benefit of approximately $20 to $220 million in the fourth quarter of 2019 due to an increase in certain Switzerland deferred tax assets resulting from enactment of Switzerland Federal and Schaffhausen cantonal tax reform. The Company is evaluating transitional measures in Switzerland tax law that may affect the overall increase in deferred tax assets as well as the impact of tax reform to its ongoing effective tax rate, the materiality of which is not yet known. 

Net Income 

As a result of the above, net income for the 39-week period ended September 28, 2019 was $591.7 million compared to $503.9 million for the 39-week period ended September 29, 2018, an increase of $87.8 million. 

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

As of September 28, 2019, we had approximately $2.5 billion of cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities. We primarily use cash flow from operations, and expect that future cash requirements may be used, to fund our capital expenditures, support our working capital requirements, pay dividends, and fund strategic acquisitions. We believe that our existing cash balances and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our long-term projected capital expenditures, working capital and other cash requirements. 

It is management’s goal to invest the on-hand cash in accordance with the investment policy, which has been approved by the Company’s Board of Directors. The investment policy’s primary purpose is to preserve capital, maintain an acceptable degree of liquidity, and maximize yield within the constraint of low credit risk. Garmin’s average interest rate returns on cash and investments during the first three quarters of 2019 and 2018 were approximately 2.0% and 1.8%, respectively. The fair value of our securities varies from period to period due to changes in interest rates, in the performance of the underlying collateral and in the credit performance of the underlying issuer, among other factors. See Note 8 for additional information regarding marketable securities. 

Operating Activities 


The $237.6 million decrease in cash provided by operating activities during the first three quarters of 2019 compared to the first three quarters of 2018 was primarily due to the increase in cash used in working capital of $310.6 million (which included a decrease of $98.0 million in net receipts of accounts receivable, a net increase of $126.7 million in cash paid for inventory associated primarily with the Company’s effort to increase days of supply to support our increasingly diversified product lines, and a net increase of $85.9 million in cash used in other activities primarily driven by payments associated with an amendment to a license agreement) and income taxes payable of $34.5 million. These decreases were partially offset by the year over year increase in net income and other non-cash adjustments of $107.5 million. 


Investing Activities  


The $129.0 million increase in cash used in investing activities during the first three quarters of 2019 compared to the first three quarters of 2018 was primarily due to increased cash payments for acquisitions of $246.1 million, partially offset by decreased net purchases of marketable securities of $85.6 million and cash payments for net purchases of property and equipment of $30.4 million. 

Financing Activities 


The $20.4 million increase in cash used in financing activities during the first three quarters of 2019 compared to the first three quarters of 2018 was primarily due to an increase in dividend payments of $12.8 million and $7.6 million increase in treasury stock net purchases related to equity awards. 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 

We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. 

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

General 

Garmin’s discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations are based upon Garmin’s Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The presentation of these financial statements requires Garmin to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, Garmin evaluates its estimates, including those related to bad debts, inventories, investments, intangible assets, income taxes, warranty obligations, contingencies, customer sales programs and incentives, product returns, relative standalone selling prices, and progress toward completion of performance obligations in certain contracts with customers. Garmin bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. 

For a description of the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, refer to Note 2, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 and “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in Part II, Item 7 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2018. There were no material changes to the Company’s critical accounting policies and estimates in the 13-week and 39-week periods ended September 28, 2019, other than those discussed in Note 1, “Accounting Policies”. 


Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

There are numerous market risks that can affect our future business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the factors discussed in Part II, “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2018. There have been no material changes during the 13-week and 39-week periods ended September 28, 2019 in the risks described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K related to market sensitivity, inflation, foreign currency exchange rate risk and interest rate risk. 

Item 4. Controls and Procedures  




Part II - Other Information  

Item 1. Legal Proceedings 

In the normal course of business, the Company and its subsidiaries are parties to various legal claims, actions, and complaints, including matters involving patent infringement, other intellectual property, product liability, customer claims and various other risks. It is not possible to predict with certainty whether or not the Company and its subsidiaries will ultimately be successful in any of these legal matters, or if not, what the impact might be. However, the Company’s management does not expect that the results in any of these legal proceedings will have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial position or cash flows. For additional information, see Note 6 – Commitments and Contingencies in the above Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Part I, “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2018. 

Item 1A. Risk Factors 


Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds 

Not applicable 

Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities 

None 

Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 

Not applicable 

Item 5. Other Information 

Not applicable 


Item 6. Exhibits 



SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 




INDEX TO EXHIBITS 


