United States 

Securities and Exchange Commission 




For the quarterly period ended September 29, 2018 

or 



Commission file number 0-31983 

GARMIN LTD.  




Indicate by check mark whether the Company (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Company was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  



Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer”, “accelerated filer”, “smaller reporting company” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 



Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).  


Number of shares outstanding of the registrant’s common shares as of October 29, 2018 



Garmin Ltd. 


Quarter Ended September 29, 2018 

Table of Contents 



Part I - Financial Information 

Item I - Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements 

Garmin Ltd. And Subsidiaries 

Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (Unaudited) 


See accompanying notes. 


Garmin Ltd. And Subsidiaries 

Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income (Unaudited) 



See accompanying notes. 


Garmin Ltd. And Subsidiaries 

Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Unaudited) 



See accompanying notes. 


Garmin Ltd. And Subsidiaries 

Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited) 



See accompanying notes. 


Garmin Ltd. and Subsidiaries 

Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 




Basis of Presentation 

The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X. Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by generally accepted accounting principles for complete financial statements. In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring accruals) considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included. Additionally, the condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with Item 2 of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, included in this Form 10-Q. Operating results for the 13-week and 39-week periods ended September 29, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the year ending December 29, 2018. 

The condensed consolidated balance sheet at December 30, 2017 has been derived from the audited financial statements at that date but does not include all of the information and footnotes required by generally accepted accounting principles for complete financial statements. For further information, refer to the consolidated financial statements and footnotes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2017. 

The Company’s fiscal year is based on a 52-53 week period ending on the last Saturday of the calendar year. Therefore, the financial results of certain 53-week fiscal years, and the associated 14-week quarters, will not be exactly comparable to the prior and subsequent 52-week fiscal years and the associated 13-week quarters. The quarters ended September 29, 2018 and September 30, 2017 both contain operating results for 13 weeks. 

As previously announced and discussed below within the “Recently Adopted Accounting Standards” section of this footnote, effective beginning in the 2018 fiscal year, we adopted the requirements of Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), using the full retrospective method. All amounts and disclosures set forth in this Form 10-Q reflect these changes. Further, as a result of the adoption of certain other accounting standards described below, effective beginning in the 2018 fiscal year, certain amounts in prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. 

Recently Adopted Accounting Standards 

Revenue from Contracts with Customers 

In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) (“ASU 2014-09”), which supersedes previous revenue recognition guidance. The FASB issued several updates amending or relating to ASU 2014-09 (collectively, the “new revenue standard”). The Company has adopted the new revenue standard effective beginning in the 2018 fiscal year using the full retrospective method, which requires the Company to restate each prior reporting period presented in future financial statement issuances. The impacts of the new revenue standard relate to our accounting for certain arrangements within the auto segment. 

A portion of the Company’s auto segment contracts have historically been accounted for under Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 985-605 Software-Revenue Recognition (Topic 985-605). Under Topic 985-605, the Company deferred revenue and associated costs of all elements of multiple-element software arrangements if vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value (VSOE) could not be established for an undelivered element (e.g. map updates). In applying the new revenue standard to certain contracts that include both software licenses and map updates, we will recognize the portion of revenue and costs related to the software license at the time of delivery rather than ratably over the map update period. 



The changes in accounting policy described above collectively result in reductions to deferred costs (asset) and deferred revenue (liability) balances, and accelerate the recognition of revenue and deferred costs in the auto segment going forward. 

Summarized financial information depicting the impact of the new revenue standard is presented below. The Company’s historical net cash flows provided by or used in operating, investing, and financing activities are not impacted by adoption of the new revenue standard. 


 (1)The Restated results presented above are restated under ASC Topic 606. Amounts related to the income tax effect of the new standard that were previously disclosed as the anticipated adoption impact in our press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on February 21, 2018 have been revised in this Note by immaterial amounts in connection with our adoption of ASC Topic 606. 




 (2)The Restated results presented above are restated under ASC Topic 606. Amounts related to the income tax effect of the new standard that were previously disclosed as the anticipated adoption impact in Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in the notes to the consolidated financial statements of our fiscal 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 21, 2018 have been revised in this Note by immaterial amounts in connection with our adoption of ASC Topic 606. 

Financial Instruments – Recognition, Measurement, Presentation, and Disclosure 


Statement of Cash Flows 


The total of cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash balances presented on the condensed consolidated balance sheet reconciles to the total cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash shown in the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows. 

Income Taxes 



Income Statement – Reporting Comprehensive Income 


Significant Accounting Policies 

For a description of the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements, refer to Note 2, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2017. Other than the policies discussed below, there were no material changes to the Company’s significant accounting policies during the 39-week period ended September 29, 2018. 

Revenue Recognition 

The Company recognizes revenue upon the transfer of control of promised products or services to the customer in an amount that depicts the consideration the Company expects to be entitled to for the related products or services. For the large majority of the Company’s sales, transfer of control occurs once product has shipped and title and risk of loss have transferred to the customer. The Company offers certain tangible products with ongoing services promised over a period of time, typically the useful life of the related tangible product. When we have identified such services as both capable of being distinct and separately identifiable from the related tangible product, the associated revenue allocated to such services is recognized over time. The Company generally does not offer specified or unspecified upgrade rights to its customers in connection with software sales. 


The Company records revenue net of sales tax and variable consideration such as trade discounts and customer returns. Payment is due typically within 90 days or less of shipment of product, or upon the grant of a given software license (as applicable). The Company records estimated reductions to revenue in the form of variable consideration for customer sales programs, returns and incentive offerings including rebates, price protection (product discounts offered to retailers to assist in clearing older products from their inventories in advance of new product releases), promotions and other volume-based incentives. The reductions to revenue are based on estimates and judgments using historical experience and expectation of future conditions. Changes in these estimates could negatively affect the Company’s operating results. These incentives are reviewed periodically and, with the exceptions of price protection and certain other promotions, typically accrued for on a percentage of sales basis. 


Deferred Revenue and Costs 

Deferred revenue consists primarily of the transaction price allocated to performance obligations that are recognized over a period of time basis as discussed in the Revenue Recognition portion of this footnote. Billings associated with such items are typically completed upon the transfer of control of promised products or services to the customer and recorded to accounts receivable until payment is received. Deferred costs primarily refer to the royalties incurred by the Company associated with the aforementioned unsatisfied performance obligations, which are amortized over the same period as the revenue is recognized. The Company typically pays the associated royalties either monthly or quarterly in arrears, on a per item shipped or installed basis. 

The Company applies a practical expedient, as permitted within ASC 340, to expense as incurred the incremental costs to obtain a contract when the amortization period of the asset that would have otherwise been recognized is one year or less. 

Shipping and Handling Costs 

 Shipping and handling activities are typically performed before the customer obtains control of the good, and the related costs are therefore expensed as incurred. Shipping and handling costs are included in cost of goods sold in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements.  










There were no anti-dilutive stock options, stock appreciation rights and restricted stock units (collectively “equity awards”) outstanding during the 13-week period ended September 29, 2018 and 1,051 anti-dilutive equity awards outstanding during the 13-week period ended September 30, 2017. 

There were no anti-dilutive equity awards outstanding during the 39-week period ended September 29, 2018 and 1,567 anti-dilutive equity awards outstanding during the 39-week period ended September 30, 2017. 

There were 12 and 2 net shares issued as a result of exercises and releases of equity awards for the 13-week periods ended September 29, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively. 

There were 390 and 161 net shares issued as a result of exercises and releases of equity awards for the 39-week periods ended September 29, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively. 

There were 230 employee stock purchase plan (ESPP) shares issued from outstanding Treasury stock during the 39-week period ended September 29, 2018. 

There were 248 ESPP shares issued from outstanding Treasury stock during the 39-week period ended September 30, 2017. 


The Company has identified five reportable segments – auto, aviation, marine, outdoor and fitness. Net sales (“revenue”), gross profit, and operating income for each of the Company’s reportable segments are presented below. 


Allocation of certain research and development expenses, and selling, general, and administrative expenses are made to each segment on a percent of revenue basis. 




Net property and equipment by geographic region as of September 29, 2018 and September 30, 2017 are presented below. 



The Company’s products sold are generally covered by a standard warranty for periods ranging from one to three years. The Company’s estimate of costs to service its warranty obligations are based on historical experience and expectation of future conditions and are recorded as a liability on the balance sheet. The following reconciliation provides an illustration of changes in the aggregate warranty reserve. 




Commitments 

The Company is party to certain commitments, which include purchases of raw materials, advertising expenditures, and other indirect purchases in connection with conducting our business. The aggregate amount of purchase orders and other commitments open as of September 29, 2018 was approximately $346,000. We cannot determine the aggregate amount of such purchase orders that represent contractual obligations because purchase orders may represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements. Our purchase orders are based on our current needs and are typically fulfilled within short periods of time. 


Contingencies 

In the normal course of business, the Company and its subsidiaries are parties to various legal claims, investigations and complaints, including matters alleging patent infringement and other intellectual property claims. The Company evaluates, on a quarterly and annual basis, developments in legal proceedings, investigations, claims, and other loss contingencies that could affect any required accrual or disclosure or estimate of reasonably possible loss or range of loss. An estimated loss from a loss contingency is accrued by a charge to income if it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. If a range of loss is estimated, and some amount within that range appears to be a better estimate than any other amount within that range, then that amount is accrued. If no amount within the range can be identified as a better estimate than any other amount, the Company accrues the minimum amount in the range. 


Management of the Company currently does not believe it is reasonably possible that the Company may have incurred a material loss, or a material loss in excess of recorded accruals, with respect to loss contingencies in the aggregate, for the fiscal quarter ended September 29, 2018. The results of legal proceedings, investigations and claims, however, cannot be predicted with certainty. An adverse resolution of one or more of such matters in excess of management’s expectations could have a material adverse effect in the particular quarter or fiscal year in which a loss is recorded, but based on information currently known, the Company does not believe it is likely that losses from such matters would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business or its consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 


The Company recorded income tax expense of $17,113 in the 13-week period ended September 29, 2018, compared to income tax expense of $38,840 in the 13-week period ended September 30, 2017. The effective tax rate was 8.5% in the third quarter of 2018, compared to 20.5% in the third quarter of 2017. The 1,200 basis points decrease to the third quarter of 2018 effective tax rate compared to the prior year quarter is primarily due to the reduction of the U.S. corporate tax rate and increased benefit from U.S. research and development tax credits. 

The Company recorded income tax expense of $87,445 in the first three quarters of 2018, compared to an income tax benefit of $53,840 in the first three quarters of 2017, which included tax expense of $7,275 associated with the expiration of share-based awards and an income tax benefit of $168,755 primarily related to the revaluation of certain Switzerland deferred tax assets resulting from the Company’s election in the first quarter of 2017 to align certain Switzerland corporate tax positions with international tax initiatives. The effective tax rate was 14.8% in the first three quarters of 2018, compared to (10.5%) in the first three quarters of 2017. Excluding the income tax benefit of $168,755 primarily related to the revaluation of Switzerland deferred tax assets, and the $7,275 tax expense due to the expiration of share-based awards, the effective tax rate for the first three quarters of 2018 decreased 620 basis points compared to the effective tax rate in the first three quarters of 2017 primarily due to the reduction of the U.S. corporate tax rate and increased benefit from U.S. research and development tax credits. 


On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was enacted into law in the United States. Due to the complexities of the new tax legislations, the SEC has issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (“SAB 118”) which allows for the recognition of provisional amounts during a measurement period. The Company recorded a provisional re-measurement of its deferred tax assets and liabilities in the fourth quarter of 2017. The Company filed its U.S. federal income tax return during the third quarter of 2018 which did not result in an adjustment of its provisional re-measurement of its deferred tax assets and liabilities. Income tax expense recorded in the third quarter of 2018 includes the impact of the new tax legislation as currently interpreted by the Company. The Company will continue to assess the impact of the new tax legislation, including any state tax impact or any related future regulations and rules, and will record any additional impacts as identified during the measurement period, if necessary. The Company does not expect such potential adjustments in the future periods will materially impact the Company’s financial condition or result of operations. 



 Level 1Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for the identical asset or liability  

 Level 2Observable inputs for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active, or inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability  

 Level 3Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability  

The Company endeavors to utilize the best available information in measuring fair value. Financial assets and liabilities are classified in their entirety based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. Valuation is based on prices obtained from an independent pricing vendor using both market and income approaches. The primary inputs to the valuation include quoted prices for similar assets in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets in markets that are not active, contractual cash flows, benchmark yields, and credit spreads. 

The method described above may produce a fair value calculation that may not be indicative of net realizable value or reflective of future fair values. Furthermore, while the Company believes its valuation methods are appropriate and consistent with other market participants, the use of different methodologies or assumptions to determine the fair value of certain financial instruments could result in a different fair value measurement at the reporting date.  








The Company’s investment policy targets low risk investments with the objective of minimizing the potential risk of principal loss. The fair value of our securities varies from period to period due to changes in interest rates, in the performance of the underlying collateral and in the credit performance of the underlying issuer, among other factors. The Company does not intend to sell the securities that have an unrealized loss shown in the table above, and it is not more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell a security before recovery of its amortized costs basis, which may be maturity. 


The Company recognizes the credit component of other-than-temporary impairments of debt securities in “Other Income” and the noncredit component in “Other comprehensive income (loss)” for those securities that we do not intend to sell and for which it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell before recovery. During fiscal 2017 and the 39-week period ended September 29, 2018, the Company did not record any material impairment charges on its outstanding securities. 

The amortized cost and fair value of the securities at an unrealized loss position as of September 29, 2018 were $1,480,955 and $1,432,137, respectively. Approximately 85% of securities in our portfolio were at an unrealized loss position as of September 29, 2018. We have the ability to hold these securities until maturity or their value is recovered. We do not consider these unrealized losses to be other than temporary credit losses because there has been no material deterioration in credit quality and no change in the cash flows of the underlying securities. We do not intend to sell the securities and it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell the securities; therefore, no material impairment has been recorded in the accompanying condensed consolidated statement of income. 

The cost of securities sold is based on the specific identification method. 

The following tables display additional information regarding gross unrealized losses and fair value by major security type for available-for-sale securities in an unrealized loss position as of September 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017. 




The amortized cost and fair value of marketable securities at September 29, 2018, by maturity, are shown below. 


 9.Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income  









In order to further depict how the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of our revenue and cash flows are affected by economic factors, we disaggregate revenue (or “net sales”) by geographic region, major product category, and pattern of recognition. 

Disaggregated revenue by geographic region (Americas, APAC, and EMEA) is presented in Note 4 – Segment Information. The Company has identified six major product categories – aviation, marine, outdoor, fitness, auto PND, and auto OEM. Note 4 also contains disaggregated revenue information of the aviation, marine, outdoor and fitness major product categories. Auto segment revenue presented in Note 4 is comprised of the auto PND and auto OEM major product categories as depicted below. 







 (1) Deferred revenue is comprised of both Deferred revenue and Noncurrent deferred revenue per the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets 

 (2) Deferred costs are comprised of both Deferred costs and Noncurrent deferred costs per the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets  

Of the $128,596 of deferred revenue recognized in the 39-weeks ended September 29, 2018, $88,775 was deferred as of the beginning of the period. 

Approximately two-thirds of the $175,238 of deferred revenue at the end of the period, September 29, 2018, is recognized ratably over a period of three years or less. 

 11.Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted  

Leases 

In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) (“ASU 2016-02”), which sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases for both lessees and lessors. The FASB subsequently issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2018-10 and Accounting Standards Update No. 2018-11 in July 2018, which provide clarifications and improvements to ASU 2016-02 (collectively, the “new lease standard”). Accounting Standards Update No. 2018-11 also provides the optional transition method which allows companies to apply the new lease standard at the adoption date instead of at the earliest comparative period presented. The new lease standard requires lessees to present a right-of-use asset and a corresponding lease liability on the balance sheet. Lessor accounting is substantially unchanged compared to the current accounting guidance. Additional footnote disclosures related to leases will also be required. The new lease standard is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018. 


The Company will adopt the new lease standard at the beginning of the 2019 fiscal year using the optional transition method. The Company plans on electing the package of transitional practical expedients upon adoption which, among other provisions, allows the Company to carry forward historical lease classification. The new lease standard will result in increases to the assets and liabilities on the Company’s consolidated balance sheets, as the majority of the Company’s leases are classified as operating leases. The Company continues to evaluate the full quantitative impact of adopting the new lease standard. The Company is also in the process of implementing changes to accounting policies, processes, systems, and internal controls in conjunction with adopting the new lease standard. 

Receivables – Nonrefundable Fees and Other Costs 


Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

Overview 

The discussion set forth below, as well as other portions of this Quarterly Report, contains statements concerning potential future events. Such forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions by management, as of the date of this Quarterly Report, including assumptions about risks and uncertainties faced by the Company. Readers can identify these forward-looking statements by their use of such verbs as expects, anticipates, believes or similar verbs or conjugations of such verbs. If any of the Company’s assumptions prove incorrect or should unanticipated circumstances arise, actual results could materially differ from those anticipated by such forward-looking statements. The differences could be caused by a number of factors or combination of factors including, but not limited to, those factors identified in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2017. This report has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC” or the “Commission”) in Washington, D.C. and can be obtained by contacting the SEC’s public reference operations or obtaining it through the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov. Readers are strongly encouraged to consider those factors when evaluating any forward-looking statement concerning the Company. The Company will not update any forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report to reflect future events or developments. 

The information contained in this Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in this Form 10-Q and the audited financial statements and notes thereto in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2017. 

The Company is a leading worldwide provider of navigation, communications and information devices, most of which are enabled by Global Positioning System, or GPS, technology. We operate in five reportable segments, the outdoor, fitness, marine, auto and aviation markets. The Company’s segments offer products through its network of independent dealers and distributors. However, the nature of products and types of customers for the five segments may vary significantly. As such, the segments are managed separately. 

The Company adopted the new accounting standard for revenue recognition, as discussed in Note 1 – Accounting Policies of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, effective beginning with the Company’s first quarter of 2018. Adoption of the new revenue recognition standard was applied using the full retrospective method, and information for prior periods within Results of Operations have been restated accordingly. 


Results of Operations 




Allocation of certain research and development expenses, and selling, general, and administrative expenses are made to each segment on a percent of revenue basis. The segment table located in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements sets forth the Company’s results of operations (in thousands) including net sales, gross profit, and operating income for each of the Company’s five segments during the periods shown. For each line item in the table, the total of the outdoor, fitness, marine, auto, and aviation segments’ amounts equals the amount in the condensed consolidated statements of income included in Item 1. 


Comparison of 13-Weeks ended September 29, 2018 and September 30, 2017  


Net Sales 


Net sales increased 8% for the 13-week period ended September 29, 2018 when compared to the year-ago quarter. The outdoor, aviation, marine, and fitness segments collectively increased by 16%, contributing 80% of total revenue. Outdoor was the largest portion of our revenue mix at 26% in the third quarter of 2018 compared to 25% in the third quarter of 2017. Auto revenue represented the largest portion of our revenue mix in the third quarter of 2017 at 26% and declined to 20% in the third quarter of 2018. 

Total unit sales in the third quarter of 2018 increased to 3,527 when compared to total unit sales of 3,492 in the third quarter of 2017. 

Auto segment revenue decreased 16% from the year-ago quarter, primarily due to the ongoing PND market contraction. Outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segment revenue increased 13%, 14%, 28%, and 17%, respectively, when compared to the year-ago quarter. The current quarter marine segment increase was primarily driven by sales from recent acquisitions, in addition to sales growth across most product lines. The outdoor and fitness segment revenue increases were primarily driven by strong sales in wearables. The aviation segment revenue increase was driven by increased sales across most product lines within the segment. 

Cost of Goods Sold  


Cost of goods sold increased 5% in absolute dollars compared to the prior year quarter. The increase in revenue outpaced the increase in cost of goods sold, which resulted in a 110 basis point decrease in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter. 

In the auto segment, cost of goods sold continued to decline with revenue declines and the slight increase of cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue was primarily due to product mix and promotional activity during the third quarter of 2018. In the marine segment, the decrease in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue primarily resulted from the favorable impact of higher margin Navionics sales on product mix. The outdoor segment decrease in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue was primarily due to product mix. The fitness segment increase in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue was primarily driven by product mix. The aviation segment decrease in cost of goods as a percent of revenue was primarily driven by a reduction in warranty costs compared to the year-ago quarter. 


Gross Profit 


Gross profit dollars in the third quarter of 2018 increased 10% while gross margin increased 110 basis points compared to the year-ago quarter. Gross margin in the fitness and auto segments decreased compared to the year-ago quarter, while gross margin in the outdoor, marine, and aviation segments increased compared to the year-ago quarter, as a result of the reasons discussed above. 

Advertising Expense 


Advertising expense decreased 4% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter. The total absolute dollar decrease was driven primarily by decreased media advertising in the auto and fitness segments, partially offset by increased media advertising in the outdoor and marine segments. 

Selling, General and Administrative Expense 


Selling, general and administrative expense increased 13% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter. The absolute dollar increase in the third quarter of 2018 was primarily attributable to personnel costs and expenses from recent acquisitions. The increase in absolute dollars and as a percent of revenue in the marine segment was primarily attributable to expenses associated with recent acquisitions and the reduced legal related costs in the year-ago quarter. The decrease in absolute dollars and as a percent of revenue in the auto segment was primarily attributable to a current quarter reduction in legal related costs compared to the year-ago quarter. 


Research and Development Expense 


Research and development expense increased $9.3 million in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter. This increase in absolute dollars was primarily due to higher engineering personnel costs related to wearable and aviation product offerings and expenses resulting from recent acquisitions within the marine segment. Our research and development spending is focused on product development, improving existing software capabilities, and exploring new categories. 

Operating Income 


Operating income increased 13% in absolute dollars and increased 110 basis points as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago quarter. The growth in operating income in absolute dollars and as a percent of revenue was primarily attributable to revenue growth and increased gross margins, as discussed above. 

Other Income (Expense)  



Foreign currency gains and losses for the Company are typically driven by movements in the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling in relation to the U.S. Dollar. The Taiwan Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin Corporation, the U.S. Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin (Europe) Ltd., and the Euro is the functional currency of most of our other European subsidiaries, although some transactions and balances are denominated in British Pounds. The majority of the Company’s consolidated foreign currency gain or loss is typically driven by the significant cash and marketable securities, receivables and payables held in a currency other than the functional currency at a given legal entity. Due to the relative size of the entities using a functional currency other than the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling, currency fluctuations related to these entities are not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial statements. 


The $6.9 million currency loss recognized in the third quarter of 2018 was primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against the Euro and British Pound Sterling within the 13-weeks ended September 29, 2018. During this period, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 0.7% against the Euro and 1.3% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in losses of $2.7 million and $0.6 million, respectively, while the U.S. Dollar remained relatively flat against the Taiwan Dollar. The remaining net currency loss of $3.6 million was related to other currencies and timing of transactions. 

The $8.6 million currency gain recognized in the third quarter of 2017 was primarily due to the weakening of the U.S. Dollar against the Euro and the British Pound Sterling, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar weakening against the Taiwan Dollar within the 13-weeks ended September 30, 2017. During this period, the U.S. Dollar weakened 3.4% against the Euro and 2.8% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in gains of $8.0 million and $0.7 million, respectively, while the U.S. Dollar weakened 0.3% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a loss of $1.6 million. The remaining net currency gain of $1.5 million was related to other currencies and timing of transactions. 

Income Tax Provision  

The Company recorded income tax expense of $17.1 million in the 13-week period ended September 29, 2018, compared to income tax expense of $38.8 million in the 13-week period ended September 30, 2017. The effective tax rate was 8.5% in the third quarter of 2018, compared to 20.5% in the third quarter of 2017. The 1,200 basis points decrease to the third quarter of 2018 effective tax rate compared to the prior year quarter is primarily due to the reduction of the U.S. corporate tax rate and increased benefit from U.S. research and development tax credits. 

Net Income  

As a result of the above, net income for the 13-weeks ended September 29, 2018 was $184.2 million compared to $151.1 million for the 13-week period ended September 30, 2017, an increase of $33.1 million. 

Comparison of 39-Weeks Ended September 29, 2018 and 39-Weeks Ended September 30, 2017 

Net Sales 


Net sales increased 9% for the 39-week period ended September 29, 2018 when compared to the year-ago period. The outdoor, aviation, marine, and fitness segments collectively increased by 17%, contributing 80% of total revenue. Fitness was the largest portion of our revenue mix at 24% in the first three quarters of 2018 compared to 22% in the first three quarters of 2017. Auto revenue represented the largest portion of our revenue mix in the first three quarters of 2017 at 26% and declined to 20% in the first three quarters of 2018. 

Total unit sales in the first three quarters of 2018 decreased to 10,266 when compared to the total unit sales of 10,495 in the first three quarters of 2017. The decrease in units sold despite the increase in revenue was primarily attributable to segment mix. 

Auto segment revenue decreased 16% from the year-ago period, primarily due to the ongoing PND market contraction. Outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segment revenue increased 12%, 20%, 19%, and 20%, respectively, from the year-ago period. The marine segment revenue increase was primarily driven by sales from recent acquisitions. The aviation segment revenue increase was primarily driven by strong growth across all product lines. The outdoor and fitness segment revenue increases were primarily driven by growth in wearables. 


Cost of Goods Sold  


Cost of goods sold increased 6% in absolute dollars for the 39-week period ended September 29, 2018 when compared to the year-ago period. The increase in revenue outpaced the increase in cost of goods sold, which resulted in a 100 basis point decrease in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago period. 

In the auto segment, cost of goods sold continued to decline with revenue declines, and the slight increase of cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue was primarily due to the write-down of certain product inventories in the first three quarters of 2018. In the marine segment, the decrease in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue primarily resulted from the favorable impact of higher margin Navionics sales on product mix. The fitness segment increase in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue was primarily driven by product mix. In the outdoor segment, cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue was relatively flat compared to the year-ago period. In the aviation segment, the decrease in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue was primarily driven by a reduction in warranty costs compared to the year-ago period. 

Gross Profit 


Gross profit dollars in the 39-week period ended September 29, 2018 increased 11% while gross margin increased 100 basis points when compared to the year-ago period. Gross margin declined in the auto and fitness segments, while gross margins increased in the aviation and marine segments, as a result of the reasons discussed above. Gross margin remained relatively flat within the outdoor segment. 

Advertising Expense 


Advertising expense decreased 6% in absolute dollars when compared to the year-ago period. The overall decrease in absolute dollars was driven primarily by decreased media advertising spend in the outdoor, fitness, and auto segments, partially offset by increased cooperative advertising within the aviation segment and expenses resulting from prior year acquisitions within the marine segment. 


Selling, General and Administrative Expense 


Selling, general and administrative expense increased 14% in absolute dollars and increased 70 basis points as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago period. The absolute dollar increase was primarily attributable to expenses from recent acquisitions within the marine segment and personnel costs. All other segments were relatively flat as a percent of revenue. 

Research and Development Expense 


In absolute dollars, research and development expense increased $43.6 million when compared with the year-ago period and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue. The absolute dollar increase in research and development expenses when compared with the year-ago period was primarily due to engineering personnel costs related to our wearable and aviation product offerings and expenses resulting from prior year acquisitions within the marine segment. Our research and development spending is focused on product development, improving existing software capabilities, and exploring new categories. 

Operating Income 


Operating income increased 11% in absolute dollars and increased 50 basis points as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago period. The growth in operating income on an absolute dollar basis and as a percent of revenue was the result of strong revenue growth and increased gross margins, partially offset by slightly increased operating expenses as a percent of revenue, as discussed above. 


Other Income (Expense)  



The $3.4 million currency loss recognized in the first three quarters of 2018 was primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against most other currencies, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Taiwan Dollar within the 39-weeks ended September 29, 2018. During this period, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 2.7% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a gain of $13.6 million. This was more than offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening 3.2% against the Euro and 3.6% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in losses of $7.7 million and $0.6 million, respectively, and additional net currency losses of $8.7 million related to other currencies and timing of transactions. 

The $13.8 million currency loss recognized in the first three quarters of 2017 was primarily due to the weakening of the U.S. Dollar against the Taiwan Dollar, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar weakening against the Euro and the British Pound Sterling within the 39-weeks ended September 30, 2017. During this period, the U.S. Dollar weakened 7.1% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a loss of $43.1 million, while the U.S. Dollar weakened 12.3% against the Euro and 8.6% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in gains of $22.2 million and $4.2 million, respectively. The remaining net currency gain of $2.9 million was related to other currencies and timing of transactions. 

Income Tax Provision  

The Company recorded income tax expense of $87.4 million in the first three quarters of 2018, compared to an income tax benefit of $53.8 million in the first three quarters of 2017, which included income tax expense of $7.3 million associated with the expiration of share-based awards and an income tax benefit of $168.8 million primarily related to the revaluation of certain Switzerland deferred tax assets resulting from the Company’s election in the first quarter of 2017 to align certain Switzerland corporate tax positions with international tax initiatives. The effective tax rate was 14.8% in the first three quarters of 2018, compared to (10.5%) in the first three quarters of 2017. Excluding the income tax benefit of $168.8 million primarily related to the revaluation of Switzerland deferred tax assets, and the $7.3 million tax expense due to the expiration of share-based awards, the effective tax rate for the first three quarters of 2018 decreased 620 basis points compared to the effective tax rate in the first three quarters of 2017 primarily due to the reduction of the U.S. corporate tax rate and increased benefit from U.S. research and development tax credits. 

Net Income  

As a result of the above, net income for the 39-week period ended September 29, 2018 was $503.9 million compared to $566.5 million for the 39-week period ended September 30, 2017, a decrease of $62.5 million. 

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

As of September 29, 2018, we had $2.5 billion of cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities. We primarily use cash flow from operations, and expect that future cash requirements may be used, to fund our capital expenditures, support our working capital requirements, pay dividends, fund strategic acquisitions, and fund share repurchases. We believe that our existing cash balances and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our long-term projected capital expenditures, working capital and other cash requirements. 


It is management’s goal to invest the on-hand cash in accordance with the investment policy, which has been approved by the Board of Directors of each applicable Garmin entity holding the cash. The investment policy’s primary purpose is to preserve capital, maintain an acceptable degree of liquidity, and maximize yield within the constraint of low credit risk. Garmin’s average interest rate returns on cash and investments during the first three quarters of 2018 and 2017 were approximately 1.8% and 1.5%, respectively. The fair value of our securities varies from period to period due to changes in interest rates, in the performance of the underlying collateral and in the credit performance of the underlying issuer, among other factors. See Note 8 for additional information regarding marketable securities. 

Operating Activities 


The $239.2 million increase in cash provided by operating activities in the first three quarters of 2018 compared to the first three quarters of 2017 was primarily due to the increase in cash provided by working capital of $107.1 million (which included an increase of $27.7 million in net receipts of accounts receivable, a decrease of $18.7 million in cash paid for inventory, and an increase of $57.1 million in accounts payable) and income taxes payable of $27.8 million. Additionally, the year over year decrease in net income of $62.5 million was offset by other non-cash adjustments to net income of $166.9 million, including an income tax benefit of $168.8 million recognized in the first quarter of 2017 related to the revaluation of certain Switzerland deferred tax assets. 

Investing Activities 


The $149.7 million increase in cash used in investing activities in the first three quarters of 2018 compared to the first three quarters of 2017 was primarily due to increased net purchases of marketable securities of $102.4 million and higher cash expenditures for purchases of property and equipment of $36.6 million. 

Financing Activities 


The $66.6 million decrease in cash used in financing activities during the first three quarters of 2018 compared to the first three quarters of 2017 was primarily due to prior year treasury stock purchases of $74.5 million under our share repurchase authorization, which expired on December 31, 2017. 


Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 

We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. 

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

General 

Garmin’s discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations are based upon Garmin’s consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The presentation of these financial statements requires Garmin to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, Garmin evaluates its estimates, including those related to bad debts, inventories, investments, intangible assets, income taxes, warranty obligations, contingencies, customer sales programs and incentives, product returns, relative standalone selling prices, and progress toward completion of performance obligations in certain contracts with customers. Garmin bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. 

For a description of the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements, refer to Note 2, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 and “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in Part II, Item 7 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2017. There were no material changes to the Company’s critical accounting policies and estimates in the 13-week and 39-week periods ended September 29, 2018, other than those discussed in Note 1, “Accounting Policies”. 

Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

There are numerous market risks that can affect our future business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the factors discussed in Part II, “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2017. There have been no material changes during the 13-week and 39-week periods ended September 29, 2018 in the risks described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K related to market sensitivity, inflation, foreign currency exchange rate risk and interest rate risk. 

Item 4. Controls and Procedures  




Part II - Other Information  

Item 1. Legal Proceedings 

The following information supplements and amends the discussion set forth under Part I, Item 3 “Legal Proceedings” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2017 and the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2018. 

PulseOn Oy v. Garmin (Europe) Ltd. 

On February 21, 2018, PulseOn Oy filed an application with the Court of Appeal in England seeking leave to appeal the judgment of the Patent Court issued on January 18, 2018, holding that no accused Garmin products infringed either of the Registered Community Designs asserted by PulseOn Oy. The hearing before the Court of Appeal is scheduled to take place on January 30, 2019. Although there can be no assurance that an unfavorable outcome of this litigation would not have a material adverse effect on our operating results, liquidity or financial position, Garmin believes that the claims in this lawsuit are without merit and intends to vigorously defend this action. 

In the normal course of business, the Company and its subsidiaries are parties to various legal claims, actions, and complaints, including matters involving patent infringement, other intellectual property, product liability, customer claims and various other risks. It is not possible to predict with certainty whether or not the Company and its subsidiaries will ultimately be successful in any of these legal matters, or if not, what the impact might be. However, the Company’s management does not expect that the results in any of these legal proceedings will have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial position or cash flows. 

Item 1A. Risk Factors 



Changes to trade regulations, including trade restrictions, sanctions, or tariffs, could significantly harm our results of operations. 

A significant portion of our global and U.S. sales are comprised of goods assembled and manufactured in our facilities in Taiwan and the People’s Republic of China, and components for a number of our goods are sourced from suppliers in the People’s Republic of China. The imposition of additional U.S. or foreign governmental controls, regulations that create new or enhanced restrictions on free trade, trade sanctions, or tariffs, particularly those applicable to goods imported from Taiwan or the People’s Republic of China, could have substantial adverse effects on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 


 Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  

Items (a) and (b) are not applicable. 


The Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program on February 13, 2015, authorizing the Company to purchase up to $300 million of its common shares as market and business conditions warrant. In December 2016, the Board of Directors authorized an extension through December 31, 2017 to purchase remaining common shares. The share repurchase authorization expired on December 31, 2017 with no additional shares having been repurchased during the 39-weeks ended September 29, 2018. 

 Item 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities  

None 

 Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures  

Not applicable 

 Item 5.Other Information  

Not applicable 

 Item 6.Exhibits  

 Exhibit 31.1 Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a). 

 Exhibit 31.2  Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a). 

 Exhibit 32.1 Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

 Exhibit 32.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  



SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 




INDEX TO EXHIBITS 


