Document   

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION




þQUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the quarterly period ended December 29, 2017

or

oTRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934



HARRIS CORPORATION



Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (l) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. þ Yes p No

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). þ Yes p No

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.


If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. p

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). p Yes þ No

The number of shares outstanding of the registrant’s common stock as of January 26, 2018 was 118,729,803 shares.

HARRIS CORPORATION


For the Quarter Ended December 29, 2017 

INDEX


This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains trademarks, service marks and registered marks of Harris Corporation and its subsidiaries.

PART I. FINANCIAL INFORMATION

Item 1. Financial Statements.

HARRIS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME



See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).


HARRIS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME



See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).


HARRIS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET



See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).


HARRIS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS



See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).


NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)

Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards

Basis of Presentation

The accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) include the accounts of Harris Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. As used in these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) (these “Notes”), the terms “Harris,” “Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” refer to Harris Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. Intracompany transactions and accounts have been eliminated in consolidation. The accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) have been prepared by Harris, without an audit, in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) for interim financial information and with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Accordingly, such interim financial statements do not include all information and footnotes necessary for a complete presentation of financial position, results of operations and cash flows in conformity with GAAP for annual financial statements. In the opinion of management, such interim financial statements reflect all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring adjustments) considered necessary for a fair presentation of our financial position, results of operations and cash flows for the periods presented therein. The results for the second quarter and first two quarters of fiscal 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the full fiscal year or any subsequent period. The balance sheet at June 30, 2017 has been derived from our audited financial statements, but does not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP for annual financial statements. We provide complete, audited financial statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, which includes information and footnotes required by the rules and regulations of the SEC. The information included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (this “Report”) should be read in conjunction with the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017 (our “Fiscal 2017 Form 10-K”).


Amounts contained in this Report may not always add to totals due to rounding.

Reclassifications

Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) to conform with current-year classifications. Reclassifications include certain human resources and information technology (“IT”) costs from the “Cost of product sales and services” line item to the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) and in these Notes. 

Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and these Notes and related disclosures. These estimates and assumptions are based on experience and other information available prior to issuance of the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and these Notes. Materially different results can occur as circumstances change and additional information becomes known.

Restructuring, Exelis Acquisition-Related Integration and Other Charges

We record restructuring charges for sales or terminations of product lines, closures or relocations of business activities, changes in management structure, and fundamental reorganizations that affect the nature and focus of operations. Such charges include termination benefits, contract termination costs and costs to consolidate facilities or relocate employees. We 


record these charges at their fair value when incurred. In cases where employees are required to render service until they are terminated in order to receive the termination benefits and will be retained beyond the minimum retention period, we record the expense ratably over the future service period. These charges are included as a component of the “Cost of product sales and services” and “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line items in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited). 

In fiscal 2017, we recorded $58 million of charges for integration and other costs in connection with our acquisition of Exelis Inc. (collectively with its subsidiaries, “Exelis”), substantially all of which were included as a component of the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Consolidated Statement of Income in our Fiscal 2017 Form 10-K. We had liabilities of $34 million at December 29, 2017 and $43 million at June 30, 2017 associated with this integration activity and with previous restructuring actions. The majority of the remaining liabilities as of December 29, 2017 will be paid within the next twelve months. 

Adoption of New Accounting Standards

In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we adopted an accounting standards update issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) that requires recognition of the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory when the transfer occurs. Consequently, this update eliminates the exception to the recognition of current and deferred income taxes for intra-entity transfers of assets other than for inventory until the assets have been sold to an outside party. This update requires entities to apply a modified retrospective approach with a cumulative catch-up adjustment to beginning retained earnings in the period of adoption. In addition, entities are required to record deferred tax balances with an offset to retained earnings for unrecognized amounts that will be recognized under this update. We applied all changes required by this update using the modified retrospective approach from the beginning of fiscal 2018. Adopting this update resulted in a $27 million reduction of prepaid income tax assets from the “Other current assets” and “Other non-current assets” line items and a $27 million increase in the “Non-current deferred income taxes” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited) as of September 29, 2017.

Accounting Standards Issued But Not Yet Effective

In May 2014, the FASB issued a comprehensive new revenue recognition standard that supersedes nearly all revenue recognition guidance under GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards and supersedes some cost guidance for construction-type and production-type contracts. The guidance in this standard is principles-based and, consequently, entities will be required to use more judgment and make more estimates than under prior guidance, including identifying contract performance obligations, estimating variable consideration to include in the contract price and allocating the transaction price to separate performance obligations. The core principle of this standard is that entities should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods and services. To help financial statement users better understand the nature, amount, timing and potential uncertainty of the revenue that is recognized, this standard requires significantly more interim and annual disclosures. This standard allows for either “full retrospective” adoption (application to all periods presented) or “modified retrospective” adoption (application to only the most current period presented in the financial statements, with certain additional required footnote disclosures). In August 2015, the FASB issued an accounting standards update that deferred the effective date of the standard by one year, while continuing to permit entities to elect to adopt the standard as early as the original effective date. As a result, this standard is now effective for fiscal years, and interim reporting periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2017, which for us is our fiscal 2019.


•Completing an accounting guidance gap analysis, consisting of a review of significant revenue streams and representative contracts to determine potential changes to our existing accounting policies and potential impacts to our consolidated financial statements;

•Completing an inventory of our outstanding contracts and revenue streams;

•Drafting a Company-wide revenue recognition policy reflecting the requirements of this standard and tailored to our businesses;

•Providing Company-wide training to affected employees, including in the areas of accounting, finance, contracts, tax and segment management; 

•Applying the five-step model of this standard to our contracts and revenue streams to evaluate the quantitative and qualitative impacts this standard will have on our consolidated financial statements, accounting and operating policies, accounting systems, internal control structure and business practices; and

•Initiating the process of reviewing the additional disclosure requirements of this standard and the potential impact on our accounting systems and internal control structure.



•The number of distinct performance obligations within our contractual arrangements;

•Contract modifications;

•The timing of revenue recognition based on the more prescriptive guidance for recognizing revenue on an “over time” basis, especially for certain non-U.S. Government contracts based on existing contractual language; 

•Incremental costs of obtaining a contract; and

•Estimation and recognition of variable consideration for contracts to provide services.

Because of the broad scope of this standard, it could impact revenue and cost recognition across all of our business segments as well as related business processes and IT systems. As a result, our evaluation of the impact of this standard will continue over future periods. We also have not yet made a determination regarding the use of a full retrospective or modified retrospective adoption approach for this standard, as this determination is primarily dependent on the completion of our analysis.

In February 2016, the FASB issued a new lease standard that supersedes existing lease guidance under GAAP. This standard requires lessees to record most leases on their balance sheets but recognize expenses on their income statements in a manner similar to existing lease guidance under GAAP. Entities are required to use a modified retrospective approach for leases that exist or are entered into after the beginning of the earliest comparative period in the financial statements, with the option to use certain relief. Full retrospective application is prohibited. This standard is effective for fiscal years, and interim reporting periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018, which for us is our fiscal 2020. We are currently evaluating the impact this standard will have on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

In March 2017, the FASB issued an accounting standards update to improve the presentation of net periodic pension cost and net periodic postretirement benefit cost. This update requires that entities present components of net periodic pension cost and net periodic postretirement benefit cost other than the service cost component separately from the service cost component and outside the subtotal of income from operations. This update must be applied retrospectively and is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, which for us is our fiscal 2019. Adopting this update will result in a decrease in operating income and an increase in the net non-operating components of income from continuing operations of $164 million and $183 million for fiscal 2017 and 2018, respectively. Adopting this update will not have a material impact on our financial position or cash flows.

Note B — Discontinued Operations

We completed two significant divestitures during fiscal 2017, the divestiture of our government IT services business (“IT Services”) and the divestiture of our Harris CapRock Communications commercial business (“CapRock”), which are described in more detail below. These divestitures individually and collectively represented a strategic shift away from non-core markets (for example, energy, maritime and government IT services). The decision to divest these businesses was part of our strategy to simplify our operating model to focus on technology-differentiated, high-margin businesses, and had a major effect on our operations and financial results.

As a result, IT Services and CapRock are reported as discontinued operations in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and these Notes, and our historical financial results have been restated to account for IT Services and CapRock as discontinued operations for all periods presented in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and these Notes. Except for disclosures related to our cash flows, or unless otherwise specified, disclosures in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and these Notes relate solely to our continuing operations.







IT Services

On April 28, 2017, we completed the divestiture to an affiliate of Veritas Capital Fund Management, L.L.C. (“Veritas”) of IT Services, which primarily provided IT and engineering managed services to U.S. Government customers, for net cash proceeds of $646 million, after transaction expenses and estimated purchase price adjustments in respect of net cash and working capital, and subject to post-closing finalization of those adjustments as set forth in the definitive sales agreement entered into January 26, 2017. We recognized a pre-tax loss of $28 million on the sale of IT Services (a gain of $55 million after certain tax benefits related to the transaction or $.44 per diluted share). The decision to divest IT Services was part of our strategy to simplify our operating model to focus on technology-differentiated, high-margin businesses. IT Services was part of our former Critical Networks segment and in connection with the definitive agreement to sell IT Services, as described above, the remaining operations that had been part of the Critical Networks segment, including our air traffic management (“ATM”) business, primarily serving the Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”), were integrated with our Electronic Systems segment effective for the third quarter of fiscal 2017, and our Critical Networks segment was eliminated. We agreed to provide various transition services to Veritas for a period of up to 18 months following the closing of the transaction pursuant to a separate agreement. 




CapRock

On January 1, 2017, we completed the divestiture to SpeedCast International Ltd. (“SpeedCast”) of CapRock, which provided wireless, terrestrial and satellite communications services to energy and maritime customers, for net cash proceeds of $368 million, after transaction expenses and purchase price adjustments in respect of net cash and working capital as set forth in the definitive sales agreement entered into November 1, 2016. We recognized a pre-tax gain of $14 million on the sale of CapRock (a gain of $61 million after certain tax benefits related to the transaction, including reversal of valuation allowances on capital losses and net operating losses, or $.49 per diluted share).



Note C — Stock Options and Other Share-Based Compensation

During the two quarters ended December 29, 2017, we had options or other share-based compensation outstanding under two shareholder-approved employee stock incentive plans (“SIPs”), the Harris Corporation 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (As Amended and Restated Effective August 27, 2010) and the Harris Corporation 2015 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2015 EIP”). Grants of share-based awards after October 23, 2015 were made under our 2015 EIP. We believe that share-based awards more closely align the interests of participants with those of shareholders. Certain share-based awards provide for accelerated vesting if there is a change in control (as defined under our SIPs). The compensation cost related to our share-based awards that was charged against income was $13 million and $24 million for the quarter and two quarters ended December 29, 2017, respectively, and $11 million and $21 million for the quarter and two quarters ended December 30, 2016, respectively. 

 The aggregate number of shares of our common stock that we issued under the terms of our SIPs, net of shares withheld for tax purposes and inclusive of both continuing and discontinued operations, was 67,717 and 398,932 for the quarter and two quarters ended December 29, 2017, respectively, and 191,740 and 733,953 for the quarter and two quarters ended December 30, 2016, respectively. Awards granted to participants under our 2015 EIP during the quarter ended December 29, 2017 consisted of 698 stock options, 1,140 restricted shares and restricted units and 228 performance units. 



Note D — Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss



Note E — Receivables



Note F — Inventories



Unbilled costs and accrued earnings on fixed-price contracts were net of progress payments of $113 million and $90 million at December 29, 2017 and June 30, 2017, respectively.


Note G — Property, Plant and Equipment



Depreciation and amortization expense related to property, plant and equipment was $36 million and $73 million for the quarter and two quarters ended December 29, 2017, respectively, and $35 million and $74 million for the quarter and two quarters ended December 30, 2016, respectively.

Note H — Accrued Warranties



We also sell extended product warranties and recognize revenue from these arrangements over the warranty period. Costs of warranty services under these arrangements are recognized as incurred. Deferred revenue associated with extended product warranties was $20 million at December 29, 2017 and $23 million at June 30, 2017 and is included as a component of the “Advance payments and unearned income” and “Other long-term liabilities” line items in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited).


Note I — Long-Term Debt



On November 6, 2017, we completed the issuance and sale of $250 million in aggregate principal amount of floating rate notes due April 30, 2020 (“Floating Rate Notes”). We incurred $2 million of debt issuance costs related to the issuance of the Floating Rate Notes, which are being amortized using the effective interest rate method over the life of the Floating Rate Notes, and such amortization is reflected as a portion of interest expense in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited). The Floating Rate Notes will bear interest at a floating rate, reset quarterly, equal to three-month LIBOR plus 0.48% per year. Interest is payable quarterly in arrears on January 30, April 30, July 30 and October 30 of each year, commencing January 30, 2018. The Floating Rate Notes are not redeemable at our option prior to maturity. Upon a change of control combined with a below-investment-grade rating event, we may be required to make an offer to repurchase the Floating Rate Notes at a price equal to 101 percent of the aggregate principal amount of the Floating Rate Notes being repurchased, plus accrued interest on the Floating Rate Notes being repurchased to, but not including, the date of repurchase.



Note J — Postretirement Benefit Plans




We made a $400 million voluntary contribution to our U.S. qualified pension plans during fiscal 2017. As a result, we made no contributions to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans and minor contributions to our non-U.S. pension plan during the quarter and two quarters ended December 29, 2017. We currently anticipate making voluntary contributions of approximately $300 million to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans and contributions of approximately $1 million to our non-U.S. pension plan during the remainder of fiscal 2018. We contributed $39 million and $103 million to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans during the quarter and two quarters ended December 30, 2016, respectively.

The U.S. Salaried Retirement Plan (“U.S. SRP”), a U.S. qualified pension plan, is our largest defined benefit pension plan, with assets valued at $4.4 billion and a projected benefit obligation of $5.6 billion as of June 30, 2017. Effective December 31, 2016, future benefit accruals under the U.S. SRP benefit formula were frozen for all employees and replaced with a 1% cash balance defined benefit formula for certain non-highly compensated employees.


Note K — Income From Continuing Operations Per Common Share



Potential dilutive common shares primarily consist of employee stock options and performance unit awards. Employee stock options to purchase approximately 222 and 1,200,708 shares of our common stock were outstanding at December 29, 2017 and December 30, 2016, respectively, but were not included as dilutive stock options in the computations of income from continuing operations per diluted common share because the effect would have been antidilutive.

Note L — Income Taxes

Tax Reform

On December 22, 2017, H.R.1, also known as the “Tax Cuts and Jobs Act,” was signed into U.S. law (“Tax Act”). Among other provisions, the Tax Act reduces the U.S. statutory corporate income tax rate from a maximum 35 percent to a flat 21 percent, effective January 1, 2018. Based on our fiscal year end, our blended U.S. statutory corporate income tax rate for fiscal 2018 will be 28 percent. Our deferred tax assets, net of deferred tax liabilities, represent anticipated corporate tax benefits to be realized in the future, and the reduction in the U.S. statutory corporate income tax rate reduced these benefits. As a result, we recognized income tax expense in our tax provision in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 to adjust our deferred tax balances to reflect the lower U.S. statutory corporate income tax rate. 


Effective Tax Rate

Our effective tax rate (income taxes as a percentage of income from continuing operations before income taxes) was 39.3 percent in the quarter ended December 29, 2017 compared with 30.6 percent in the quarter ended December 30, 2016. In addition to the impacts from the Tax Act described above, our effective tax rate for the quarter ended December 29, 2017 benefited from a $22 million ($.18 per diluted share) favorable impact of releasing provisions for uncertain tax positions and the favorable impact of differences in GAAP and tax accounting related to investments. Our effective tax rate for the quarter ended December 30, 2016 was not impacted by any significant discrete item.

Our effective tax rate was 33.5 percent in the two quarters ended December 29, 2017 compared with 29.7 percent in the two quarters ended December 30, 2016. In addition to the items noted above for the quarters ended December 29, 2017 and December 30, 2016, our effective tax rate for the two quarters ended December 29, 2017 and December 30, 2016 benefited from the favorable impact of excess tax benefits related to equity-based compensation.

We have not fully completed our accounting for the income tax impact from the Tax Act enactment. For certain items, we have made a reasonable estimate of the impact on our existing net deferred income tax balances as of December 29, 2017, which is represented by the $52 million estimated adjustment from the revaluation of net deferred tax asset balances described above. For other items, we have not been able to make a reasonable estimate and continue to account for those items based on our existing accounting under Accounting Standards Codification 740, Income Taxes (“ASC 740”) and the provisions of the tax laws that were in effect immediately prior to Tax Act enactment. 


Provisional Amounts

We remeasured certain deferred income tax assets and liabilities based on the rate at which we expect them to reverse in the future, which generally is 28 percent for reversals in fiscal 2018 or 21 percent for reversals after fiscal 2018. However, we are still evaluating certain aspects of the Tax Act and refining our calculations, which potentially affects our current estimated valuation of our net deferred income tax assets and could give rise to new deferred tax amounts. 



We anticipate future impacts at a U.S. state and local tax level related to the Tax Act; however, statutory and interpretive guidance is not available from applicable state and local tax authorities to reasonably estimate the impact. Consequently, we have not recorded provisional amounts and have continued to apply ASC 740 based on the provisions of the tax laws that were in effect immediately prior to Tax Act enactment. 

Note M — Fair Value Measurements


•Level 1 — Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.

•Level 2 — Observable inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1, including quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active; and inputs other than quoted prices that are observable or are derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data by correlation or other means.

•Level 3 — Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity, are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities, and reflect our own assumptions about the assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability developed using the best information available in the circumstances.

In certain instances, fair value is estimated using quoted market prices obtained from external pricing services. In obtaining such data from the external pricing services, we have evaluated the methodologies used to develop the estimate of fair value in order to assess whether such valuations are representative of fair value, including net asset value (“NAV”). Additionally, in certain circumstances, the NAV reported by an asset manager may be adjusted when sufficient evidence indicates NAV is not representative of fair value.









Note N — Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities

In the normal course of business, we are exposed to global market risks, including the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We use derivative instruments to manage our exposure to such risks and formally document all relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as the risk-management objective and strategy for undertaking hedge transactions. We recognize all derivatives in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited) at fair value. We do not hold or issue derivatives for speculative purposes.

At December 29, 2017, we had open foreign currency forward contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $34 million, all of which were classified as cash flow hedges. This compares with open foreign currency forward contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $33 million at June 30, 2017, of which $2 million were classified as fair value hedges and $31 million were classified as cash flow hedges. At December 29, 2017, contract expiration dates ranged from 11 days to approximately 6 months with a weighted average contract life of 4 months. 


Fair Value Hedges

We have used foreign currency forward contracts and options to hedge certain balance sheet items, including foreign currency denominated accounts receivable and inventory. As of December 29, 2017, we had no outstanding foreign currency forward contracts to hedge balance sheet items. The net gains or losses on foreign currency forward contracts designated as fair value hedges were not material in the quarter and two quarters ended December 29, 2017 or in the quarter and two quarters ended December 30, 2016. In addition, no amounts were recognized in earnings in the quarter and two quarters ended December 29, 2017 or in the quarter and two quarters ended December 30, 2016 related to hedged firm commitments that no longer qualify as fair value hedges. 

Cash Flow Hedges

We use foreign currency forward contracts and options to hedge off-balance sheet future foreign currency commitments and also have hedged U.S. Dollar payments to suppliers to maintain our anticipated profit margins in our international operations. As of December 29, 2017, we had outstanding foreign currency forward contracts denominated in the Euro and British Pound to hedge certain forecasted transactions. The net gains or losses from cash flow hedges recognized in earnings or recorded in other comprehensive income, including gains or losses related to hedge ineffectiveness, were not material in the quarter and two quarters ended December 29, 2017 or in the quarter and two quarters ended December 30, 2016. 

Note O — Changes in Estimates 

Estimate at Completion Adjustments

Estimates and assumptions, and changes therein, are important in connection with, among others, our segments’ revenue recognition policies related to development and production contracts. Revenue and profit related to development and production contracts are recognized using the POC method, generally based on the ratio of costs incurred to estimated total costs at completion under the contract (i.e., the “cost-to-cost” method) or the ratio of actual units delivered to estimated total units to be delivered under the contract (i.e., the “units-of-delivery” method) with consideration given for risk of performance and estimated profit. Revenue and profit on cost-reimbursable development and production contracts are recognized as allowable costs are incurred on the contract and become billable to the customer, in an amount equal to the allowable costs plus the profit on those costs.

Development and production contracts are combined when specific aggregation criteria are met. Criteria generally include closely interrelated activities performed for a single customer within the same economic environment. Development and production contracts are generally not segmented. If development and production contracts are segmented, we have determined that they meet specific segmenting criteria. Change orders, claims or other items that may change the scope of a development or production contract are included in contract value only when the value can be reliably estimated and realization is probable. Possible incentives or penalties and award fees applicable to performance on development and production contracts are considered in estimating contract value and profit rates and are recorded when there is sufficient information to assess anticipated contract performance. Incentive provisions that increase earnings based solely on a single significant event are generally not recognized until the event occurs. We are party to certain contracts with incentive provisions or award fees that are subject to uncertainty until the conclusion of the contract, and our customers may be entitled to reclaim and receive previous award fee payments.

Under the POC method of accounting, a single estimated total profit margin is used to recognize profit for each development and production contract over its period of performance. Recognition of profit on a fixed-price development or production contract requires estimates of the total cost at completion and the measurement of progress toward completion. The estimated profit or loss on a development or production contract is equal to the difference between the estimated contract value and the estimated total cost at completion. Due to the long-term nature of many of our programs, developing the estimated total cost at completion often requires judgment. Factors that must be considered in estimating the cost of the work to be completed include the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, subcontractor performance, the risk and impact of delayed performance, availability and timing of funding from the customer and the recoverability of any claims outside the original development or production contract included in the estimate to complete. At the outset of each contract, we gauge its complexity and perceived risks and establish an estimated total cost at completion in line with these expectations. After establishing the estimated total cost at completion, we follow a standard Estimate at Completion (“EAC”) process in which we review the progress and performance on our ongoing development and production contracts at least quarterly and, in many cases, more frequently. If we successfully retire risks associated with the technical, schedule and cost aspects of a contract, we may lower our estimated total cost at completion commensurate with the retirement of these risks. Conversely, if we are not successful in retiring these risks, we may increase our estimated total cost at completion. Additionally, at the outset of a cost-reimbursable contract (for example, contracts containing award or incentive fees), we establish an estimate of total contract value, or revenue, based on our expectation of performance on the contract. As the cost-reimbursable contract progresses, our estimates of total contract value may increase or decrease if, for example, we receive 


higher or lower than expected award fees. When adjustments in estimated total costs at completion or in estimated total contract value are determined, the related impact to operating income is recognized using the cumulative catch-up method, which recognizes in the current period the cumulative effect of such adjustments for all prior periods. Anticipated losses on development and production contracts or programs in progress are charged to operating income when identified. Net EAC adjustments resulting from changes in estimates impacted our operating income unfavorably by $10 million ($7 million after-tax or $.06 per diluted share) and favorably by $1 million in the quarter and two quarters ended December 29, 2017, respectively, and favorably by $6 million ($4 million after-tax or $.03 per diluted share) and $19 million ($12 million after-tax or $.10 per diluted share) in the quarter and two quarters ended December 30, 2016, respectively.

Income Taxes

 See Note L — Income Taxes in these Notes for changes in estimates disclosures associated with our accounting for income taxes.

Note P — Business Segments


•Communication Systems, serving markets in tactical communications and defense products, including tactical ground and airborne radio communications solutions and night vision technology, and in public safety networks; 

•Electronic Systems, providing electronic warfare, avionics, and command, control, communications, computers, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (“C4ISR”) solutions for the defense industry and ATM solutions for the civil aviation industry; and 

•Space and Intelligence Systems, providing intelligence, space protection, geospatial, complete Earth observation, universe exploration, positioning, navigation and timing (“PNT”), and environmental solutions for national security, defense, civil and commercial customers, using advanced sensors, antennas and payloads, as well as ground processing and information analytics. 

As described in more detail in “Basis of Presentation” in Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards and Note B — Discontinued Operations in these Notes, in connection with our divestiture of CapRock and entering into the definitive agreement to sell IT Services in the third quarter of fiscal 2017, our other remaining operations that had been part of our former Critical Networks segment, including our ATM business primarily serving the FAA, were integrated with our Electronic Systems segment effective for the third quarter of fiscal 2017, and our Critical Networks segment was eliminated. The historical results, discussion and presentation of our business segments as set forth in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and these Notes reflect the impact of these changes for all periods presented in order to present all segment information on a comparable basis. There is no impact on our previously reported consolidated statements of income, balance sheets or statements of cash flows resulting from these segment changes. Our historical results and discussion for all periods presented have been restated to account for businesses reported as discontinued operations in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and these Notes. 








Note Q — Legal Proceedings and Contingencies 


Environmental Matters 



REVIEW REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

The Board of Directors and Shareholders of Harris Corporation

We have reviewed the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheet of Harris Corporation as of December 29, 2017, and the related unaudited condensed consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income for the quarter and two quarters ended December 29, 2017 and December 30, 2016, and the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of cash flows for the two quarters ended December 29, 2017 and December 30, 2016. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management.

We conducted our review in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). A review of interim financial information consists principally of applying analytical procedures and making inquiries of persons responsible for financial and accounting matters. It is substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the objective of which is the expression of an opinion regarding the financial statements taken as a whole. Accordingly, we do not express such an opinion.

Based on our review, we are not aware of any material modifications that should be made to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements referred to above for them to be in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.

We have previously audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheet of Harris Corporation as of June 30, 2017, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, cash flows, and equity for the year then ended (not presented herein) and we expressed an unqualified audit opinion on those consolidated financial statements in our report dated August 29, 2017. In our opinion, the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet of Harris Corporation as of June 30, 2017, is fairly stated, in all material respects, in relation to the consolidated balance sheet from which it has been derived.


Orlando, Florida



Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

OVERVIEW

The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”) is intended to assist in an understanding of our financial condition and results of operations. This MD&A is provided as a supplement to, should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and accompanying Notes appearing elsewhere in this Report. In addition, reference should be made to our audited Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in our Fiscal 2017 Form 10-K. Except for the historical information contained herein, the discussions in this MD&A contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our future results could differ materially from those discussed herein. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below in this MD&A under “Forward-Looking Statements and Factors that May Affect Future Results.”


•Results of Operations — an analysis of our consolidated results of operations and the results in each of our business segments, to the extent the segment operating results are helpful to an understanding of our business as a whole, for the periods presented in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).

•Liquidity, Capital Resources and Financial Strategies — an analysis of cash flows, funding of pension plans, common stock repurchases, dividends, capital structure and resources, off-balance sheet arrangements and commercial commitments and contractual obligations.

•Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates — information about accounting policies that require critical judgments and estimates and about accounting standards that have been issued, but are not yet effective for us, and their potential impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

•Forward-Looking Statements and Factors that May Affect Future Results — cautionary information about forward-looking statements and a description of certain risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical results or our current expectations or projections.


•Communication Systems, serving markets in tactical communications and defense products, including tactical ground and airborne radio communications solutions and night vision technology, and in public safety networks; 

•Electronic Systems, providing electronic warfare, avionics, and C4ISR solutions for the defense industry and ATM solutions for the civil aviation industry; and

•Space and Intelligence Systems, providing intelligence, space protection, geospatial, complete Earth observation, universe exploration, PNT, and environmental solutions for national security, defense, civil and commercial customers, using advanced sensors, antennas and payloads, as well as ground processing and information analytics. 


Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) to conform with current-year classifications. Reclassifications include certain human resources and IT costs from the “Cost of product sales and services” line item to the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) and in the Notes. 

Amounts contained in this Report may not always add to totals due to rounding. 


RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Highlights


Net cash provided by operating activities increased 26 percent to $373 million in the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 from $295 million in the first two quarters of fiscal 2017.

Consolidated Results of Operations



Revenue




Gross Margin




Gross Margin Percentage




Engineering, Selling and Administrative Expenses




Operating Income




Income Taxes



Income From Continuing Operations



Income From Continuing Operations Per Diluted Common Share





Discussion of Business Segment Results of Operations

Communication Systems Segment



The increase in segment gross margin in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to the increase in revenue. The 2 percentage point decrease in segment gross margin percentage in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to a less favorable mix of program and product revenue. The increase in segment ESA expenses in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to higher selling costs, reflecting the higher international tactical communications sales, and higher employment costs. The 2 percentage point decrease in segment ESA percentage in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to the increase in segment revenue and cost containment. 

The increase in segment operating income and comparability of segment operating margin percentage in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment. 


Segment gross margin percentage for the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 decreased slightly compared with the first two quarters of fiscal 2017 primarily due to the same reasons as noted above regarding this segment for the second quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017, partially offset by the benefit of operational excellence improvements. The decreases in segment ESA expenses and ESA percentage in the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first two quarters of fiscal 2017 were primarily due to cost containment. 

The increases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first two quarters of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment for the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017.


Electronic Systems Segment




The decreases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment. 



The decreases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first two quarters of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment for the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017. 


Space and Intelligence Systems Segment



The increases in segment gross margin and gross margin percentage in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017 were primarily attributable to higher pension income and productivity savings. The slight increases in segment ESA expenses and ESA percentage in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017 were due to higher direct selling costs.

The increases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.


The increases in segment gross margin, gross margin percentage, ESA expenses and ESA percentage in the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first two quarters of fiscal 2017 were primarily due to the same reasons as noted above regarding this segment for the second quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017. 

The increases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first two quarters of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment for the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017. 

Unallocated Corporate Expense





the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 any Exelis acquisition-related charges, which totaled $30 million in the first two quarters of fiscal 2017, partially offset by the effect of the other items discussed above regarding the second quarter of fiscal 2018.

Discontinued Operations

As described in more detail in Note B — Discontinued Operations in the Notes, IT Services and CapRock are reported as discontinued operations in this Report. As a result, our historical financial results have been restated to account for IT Services and CapRock as discontinued operations for all periods presented in this Report. 

LIQUIDITY, CAPITAL RESOURCES AND FINANCIAL STRATEGIES

Cash Flows





Given our current cash position, outlook for funds generated from operations, credit ratings, available credit facility, cash needs and debt structure, we have not experienced to date, and do not expect to experience, any material issues with 


liquidity, although we can give no assurances concerning our future liquidity, particularly in light of our overall level of debt, U.S. Government budget uncertainties and the state of global commerce and financial uncertainty.


There can be no assurance, however, that our business will continue to generate cash flows at current levels or that the cost or availability of future borrowings, if any, under our commercial paper program or our credit facility or in the debt markets will not be impacted by any potential future credit or capital markets disruptions. If we are unable to maintain cash balances or generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our obligations, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, reduce or eliminate strategic acquisitions, reduce or terminate our share repurchases, reduce or eliminate dividends, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt or obtain additional financing. Our ability to make principal payments or pay interest on or refinance our indebtedness depends on our future performance and financial results, which, to a certain extent, are subject to general conditions in or affecting the defense, government and other markets we serve and to general economic, political, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors beyond our control.




Funding of Pension Plans

Funding requirements under applicable laws and regulations are a major consideration in making contributions to our U.S. pension plans. Although we have significant discretion in making voluntary contributions, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended by the Pension Protection Act of 2006 and further amended by the Worker, Retiree, and Employer Recovery Act of 2008, the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act (“MAP-21”), and applicable Internal Revenue Code regulations mandate minimum funding thresholds. Failure to satisfy the minimum funding thresholds could result in restrictions on our ability to amend the plans or make benefit payments. With respect to our U.S. qualified pension plans, we intend to contribute annually not less than the required minimum funding thresholds.

The Highway and Transportation Funding Act of 2014 and the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 further extended the interest rate stabilization provision of MAP-21 until 2020. We made a $400 million voluntary contribution to our U.S. qualified pension plans during fiscal 2017. As a result, we made no contributions to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans during the first two quarters of fiscal 2018. We currently anticipate making voluntary contributions of approximately $300 million to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans during the remainder of fiscal 2018.



Common Stock Repurchases 

During the first two quarters of fiscal 2018, we used $150 million to repurchase 1,153,811 shares of our common stock under our repurchase program at an average price per share of $130.10, including commissions of $.02 per share. During the first two quarters of fiscal 2017, we used $100 million to repurchase 1,100,203 shares of our common stock under our repurchase program at an average price per share of $90.45, including commissions of $.02 per share. In the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, $10 million and $19 million, respectively, in shares of our common stock were delivered to us or withheld by us to satisfy withholding taxes on employee share-based awards. Shares purchased by us are cancelled and retired. 

As of December 29, 2017, we had a remaining, unused authorization of approximately $823 million under our repurchase program, which does not have an expiration date. Repurchases under our repurchase program are expected to be funded with available cash and commercial paper and may be made through open market purchases, private transactions, transactions structured through investment banking institutions or any combination thereof. The level of our repurchases depends on a number of factors, including our financial condition, capital requirements, cash flows, results of operations, future business prospects and other factors our Board of Directors may deem relevant. The timing, volume and nature of repurchases are subject to market conditions, applicable securities laws and other factors and are at our discretion and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. Additional information regarding our repurchase program is set forth in this Report under Part II. Item 2. “Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.”

Dividends

On August 25, 2017, our Board of Directors increased the quarterly cash dividend rate on our common stock from $.53 per share to $.57 per share, for an annualized cash dividend rate of $2.28 per share, which was our sixteenth consecutive annual increase in our quarterly cash dividend rate. Our annualized cash dividend rate in fiscal 2017 was $2.12 per share. There can be no assurances that our annualized cash dividend rate will continue to increase. Quarterly cash dividends are typically paid in March, June, September and December. We currently expect that cash dividends will continue to be paid in the near future, but we can give no assurances concerning payment of future dividends. The declaration of dividends and the amount thereof will depend on a number of factors, including our financial condition, capital requirements, cash flows, results of operations, future business prospects and other factors our Board of Directors may deem relevant.

Capital Structure and Resources


We were in compliance with the covenants in the 2015 Credit Agreement at December 29, 2017, including the covenant requiring that we not permit our ratio of consolidated total indebtedness to total capital, each as defined in the 2015 Credit Agreement, to be greater than 0.65 to 1.00. At December 29, 2017, we had no borrowings outstanding under the 2015 Credit Agreement.



During the second quarter of fiscal 2018, we completed the issuance and sale of $250 million in aggregate principal amount of Floating Rate Notes due April 30, 2020 and used the net proceeds, together with cash on hand, to repay in full the $253 million in remaining outstanding indebtedness under the 5-year tranche of our $1.3 billion senior unsecured term loan facility pursuant to our Term Loan Agreement, dated as of March 16, 2015.


Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements


•Any obligation under certain guarantee contracts;

•A retained or contingent interest in assets transferred to an unconsolidated entity or similar arrangement that serves as credit, liquidity or market risk support to that entity for such assets;

•Any obligation, including a contingent obligation, under certain derivative instruments; and


•Any obligation, including a contingent obligation, under a material variable interest in an unconsolidated entity that is held by, and material to, the registrant, where such entity provides financing, liquidity, market risk or credit risk support to the registrant, or engages in leasing, hedging or research and development services with the registrant.

As of December 29, 2017, we were not participating in any material transactions that generated relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, including variable interest entities, and we did not have any material retained or contingent interest in assets as defined above. As of December 29, 2017, we did not have material financial guarantees or other contractual commitments that are reasonably likely to adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows, and we were not a party to any related party transactions that materially affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.


Due to our downsizing of certain operations pursuant to acquisitions, divestitures, restructuring plans or otherwise, certain properties leased by us have been sublet to third parties. In the event any of these third parties vacates any of these premises, we would be legally obligated under master lease arrangements. We believe that the financial risk of default by such sublessees is individually and in the aggregate not material to our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

Commercial Commitments and Contractual Obligations


CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES


Revenue Recognition

A significant portion of our business is derived from development and production contracts. Revenue and profit related to development and production contracts are recognized using the POC method, generally based on the ratio of costs incurred to estimated total costs at completion under the contract (i.e., the “cost-to-cost” method) or the ratio of actual units delivered to estimated total units to be delivered under the contract (i.e., the “units-of-delivery” method) with consideration given for risk of performance and estimated profit. The majority of the revenue in our Space and Intelligence Systems and Electronic Systems segments (and to a certain extent, revenue in our Communication Systems segment) relates to development and production contracts, and the POC method of revenue recognition is primarily used for these contracts. Change orders, claims or other items that may change the scope of a development or production contract are included in contract value only when the value can be reliably estimated and realization is probable. Possible incentives or penalties and award fees applicable to performance on development and production contracts are considered in estimating contract value and profit rates and are recorded when there is sufficient information to assess anticipated contract performance. Incentive provisions that increase earnings based solely on a single significant event are generally not recognized until the event occurs. We are party to certain contracts with incentive provisions or award fees that are subject to uncertainty until the conclusion of the contract, and our customers may be entitled to reclaim and receive previous award fee payments. 


Under the POC method of accounting, a single estimated total profit margin is used to recognize profit for each development and production contract over its period of performance. Recognition of profit on fixed-price development and production contracts requires estimates of the total cost at completion and the measurement of progress toward completion. The estimated profit or loss on a development or production contract is equal to the difference between the estimated contract value and the estimated total cost at completion. Due to the long-term nature of many of our programs, developing the estimated total cost at completion often requires judgment. Factors that must be considered in estimating the cost of the work to be completed include the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, subcontractor performance, the risk and impact of delayed performance, availability and timing of funding from the customer and the recoverability of any claims outside the original development or production contract included in the estimate to complete. At the outset of each contract, we gauge its complexity and perceived risks and establish an estimated total cost at completion in line with these expectations. After establishing the estimated total cost at completion, we follow a standard estimate at completion (“EAC”) process in which we review the progress and performance on our ongoing development and production contracts at least quarterly and, in many cases, more frequently. If we successfully retire risks associated with the technical, schedule and cost aspects of a contract, we may lower our estimated total cost at completion commensurate with the retirement of these risks. Conversely, if we are not successful in retiring these risks, we may increase our estimated total cost at completion. Additionally, at the outset of a cost-reimbursable contract (for example, contracts containing award or incentive fees), we establish an estimate of total contract value, or revenue, based on our expectation of performance on the contract. As the cost-reimbursable contract progresses, our estimates of total contract value may increase or decrease if, for example, we receive higher or lower than expected award fees. When adjustments in estimated total costs at completion or in estimated total contract value are determined, the related impact to operating income is recognized using the cumulative catch-up method, which recognizes in the current period the cumulative effect of such adjustments for all prior periods. Anticipated losses on development and production contracts or programs in progress are charged to operating income when identified. We have not made any material changes in the methodologies used to recognize revenue on development and production contracts or to estimate our costs related to development and production contracts in the past three fiscal years.





We also recognize revenue from arrangements requiring the delivery or performance of multiple deliverables or elements under a bundled sale. In these arrangements, judgment is required to determine the appropriate accounting, including whether the individual deliverables represent separate units of accounting for revenue recognition purposes, and the timing of revenue recognition for each deliverable. If we determine that individual deliverables represent separate units of accounting, we recognize the revenue associated with each unit of accounting separately, and contract revenue is allocated among the separate units of accounting at the inception of the arrangement based on relative selling price. If options or change orders materially change the scope of work or price of the contract subsequent to inception, we reevaluate and adjust our prior conclusions regarding units of accounting and allocation of contract revenue as necessary. The allocation of selling price among the separate units of accounting may impact the timing of revenue recognition, but will not change the total revenue recognized on the arrangement. We establish the selling price used for each deliverable based on the vendor-specific objective evidence (“VSOE”) of selling price, or third-party evidence (“TPE”) of selling price if VSOE of selling price is not available, or best estimate of selling price (“BESP”) if neither VSOE nor TPE of selling price is available. In determining VSOE of selling price, a substantial majority of the recent standalone sales of the deliverable must be priced within a relatively narrow range. In determining TPE of selling price, we evaluate competitor prices for similar deliverables when sold separately. Generally, comparable pricing of our products to those of our competitors with similar functionality cannot be obtained. In determining BESP, we consider both market data and entity-specific factors, including market conditions, the geographies in which our products are sold, our competitive position and strategy, and our profit objectives.



Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Standards

Accounting standards that have been recently issued, but are not yet effective for us, are described in Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards in the Notes, which describes the potential impact that these standards are expected to have on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS

This Report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, as well as assumptions that may not materialize or prove to be correct, which could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, statements concerning: our plans, strategies and objectives for future operations; new products, systems, technologies, services or developments; future economic conditions, performance or outlook; future political conditions; the outcome of contingencies; the potential level of share repurchases, dividends or pension contributions; potential acquisitions or divestitures; the value of contract awards and programs; expected cash flows or capital expenditures; our beliefs or expectations; activities, events or developments that we intend, expect, project, believe or anticipate will or may occur in the future; and assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Forward-looking statements may be identified by their use of forward-looking terminology, such as “believes,” “expects,” “may,” “should,” “would,” “will,” “intends,” “plans,” “estimates,” “anticipates,” “projects” and similar words or expressions. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect our management’s opinions only as of the date of filing of this Report and are not guarantees of future performance or actual results. Forward-looking statements are made in reliance on the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). The following are some of the factors we believe could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical results or our current expectations or projections:

•We depend on U.S. Government customers for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of these relationships, a reduction in U.S. Government funding or a change in U.S. Government spending priorities could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

•We depend significantly on U.S. Government contracts, which often are only partially funded, subject to immediate termination, and heavily regulated and audited. The termination or failure to fund, or negative audit findings for, one or more of these contracts could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

•We could be negatively impacted by a security breach, through cyber attack, cyber intrusion, insider threats or otherwise, or other significant disruption of our IT networks and related systems or of those we operate for certain of our customers.

•The U.S. Government’s budget deficit, the national debt and sequestration, as well as the U.S. Government’s inability to complete its budget process and consequently having to operate pursuant to a “continuing resolution” or shut down, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

•The level of returns on defined benefit plan assets, changes in interest rates and other factors could affect our earnings and cash flows in future periods.

•We enter into fixed-price contracts that could subject us to losses in the event of cost overruns or a significant increase in inflation.

•We use estimates in accounting for many of our programs and changes in our estimates could adversely affect our future financial results.

•We derive a significant portion of our revenue from international operations and are subject to the risks of doing business internationally, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates.

•Our reputation and ability to do business may be impacted by the improper conduct of our employees, agents or business partners.

•We may not be successful in obtaining the necessary export licenses to conduct certain operations abroad, and Congress may prevent proposed sales to certain foreign governments.

•Our future success will depend on our ability to develop new products, systems, services and technologies that achieve market acceptance in our current and future markets.

•We participate in markets that are often subject to uncertain economic conditions, which makes it difficult to estimate growth in our markets and, as a result, future income and expenditures.

•We cannot predict the consequences of future geo-political events, but they may adversely affect the markets in which we operate, our ability to insure against risks, our operations or our profitability.


•We have made, and may continue to make, strategic acquisitions and divestitures that involve significant risks and uncertainties.

•Disputes with our subcontractors and the inability of our subcontractors to perform, or our key suppliers to timely deliver our components, parts or services, could cause our products, systems or services to be produced or delivered in an untimely or unsatisfactory manner.

•Third parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future that we are infringing directly or indirectly upon their intellectual property rights, and third parties may infringe upon our intellectual property rights.

•The outcome of litigation or arbitration in which we are involved from time to time is unpredictable and an adverse decision in any such matter could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

•We face certain significant risk exposures and potential liabilities that may not be covered adequately by insurance or indemnity.

•Changes in our effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on our results of operations.

•Our level of indebtedness and our ability to make payments on or service our indebtedness and our unfunded defined benefit plans liability may adversely affect our financial and operating activities or our ability to incur additional debt.

•A downgrade in our credit ratings could materially adversely affect our business.

•Unforeseen environmental issues could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

•We have significant operations in locations that could be materially and adversely impacted in the event of a natural disaster or other significant disruption.


•Some of our workforce is represented by labor unions, so our business could be harmed in the event of a prolonged work stoppage.

•We must attract and retain key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us.

•We may be responsible for U.S. Federal income tax liabilities that relate to the spin-off of Vectrus, Inc. (“Vectrus”) completed by Exelis.

•In connection with the Vectrus spin-off, Vectrus indemnified Exelis for certain liabilities and Exelis indemnified Vectrus for certain liabilities. This indemnity may not be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of the liabilities assumed by Vectrus and Vectrus may be unable to satisfy its indemnification obligations to us in the future.

•The Vectrus spin-off may expose us to potential liabilities arising out of state and Federal fraudulent conveyance laws and legal distribution requirements.

•The ITT Corporation (“ITT”) spin-off of Exelis may expose us to potential liabilities arising out of state and Federal fraudulent conveyance laws and legal distribution requirements.

•If we are required to indemnify ITT or Xylem, Inc. in connection with the ITT spin-off of Exelis, we may need to divert cash to meet those obligations and our financial results could be negatively impacted.

Additional details and discussions concerning some of the factors that could affect our forward-looking statements or future results are set forth in our Fiscal 2017 Form 10-K under Item 1A. “Risk Factors” and in Part II. Item 1A. “Risk Factors” in this Report. The foregoing list of factors and the factors set forth in Item 1A. “Risk Factors” included in our Fiscal 2017 Form 10-K and in Part II. Item 1A. “Risk Factors” in this Report are not exhaustive. Additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or that we currently believe not to be material also may adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Should any risks or uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The forward-looking statements contained in this Report are made as of the date of filing of this Report, and we disclaim any intention or obligation, other than imposed by law, to update or revise any forward-looking statements or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or developments or otherwise.

Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.

In the normal course of business, we are exposed to risks associated with foreign currency exchange rates and changes in interest rates. We employ established policies and procedures governing the use of financial instruments to manage our exposure to such risks.



exchange rates for our foreign currency derivatives held at December 29, 2017 would not have had a material impact on the fair value of such instruments or our results of operations or cash flows. This quantification of exposure to the market risk associated with foreign currency financial instruments does not take into account the offsetting impact of changes in the fair value of our foreign denominated assets, liabilities and firm commitments. See Note N — Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities in the Notes for additional information.



Item 4. Controls and Procedures.




PART II. OTHER INFORMATION

Item 1. Legal Proceedings.


Tax Audits. Our tax filings are subject to audit by taxing authorities in jurisdictions where we conduct or conducted business. These audits may result in assessments of additional taxes that are subsequently resolved with the authorities or ultimately through legal proceedings. We believe we have adequately accrued for any ultimate amounts that are likely to result from these audits; however, final assessments, if any, could be different from the amounts recorded in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).

Item 1A. Risk Factors.

Investors should carefully review and consider the information regarding certain factors that could materially affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows as set forth under Item 1A. “Risk Factors” in our Fiscal 2017 Form 10-K. We do not believe that there have been any material changes to the risk factors previously disclosed in our Fiscal 2017 Form 10-K. We may disclose changes to such risk factors or disclose additional risk factors from time to time in our future filings with the SEC. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe not to be material also may adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities






Sales of Unregistered Equity Securities

During the second quarter of fiscal 2018, we did not issue or sell any unregistered equity securities.

Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities.

Not Applicable.

Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures.

Not Applicable.

Item 5. Other Information.

Not Applicable.


Item 6. Exhibits.

EXHIBIT INDEX





SIGNATURE

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


