

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION




☑QUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the quarterly period ended September 27, 2019

or










Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (l) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. þ Yes o No

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files). þ Yes o No

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.


If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. o


The number of shares outstanding of the registrant’s common stock as of October 25, 2019 was 221,064,649 shares. 



For the Quarter Ended September 27, 2019 

This Report contains trademarks, service marks and registered marks of L3Harris Technologies, Inc. and its subsidiaries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. 

PART I. FINANCIAL INFORMATION

Item 1. Financial Statements.

L3HARRIS TECHNOLOGIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME



See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).


L3HARRIS TECHNOLOGIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME



See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).


L3HARRIS TECHNOLOGIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 




L3HARRIS TECHNOLOGIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS



See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).


L3HARRIS TECHNOLOGIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EQUITY



See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).


NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)

Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards 

Basis of Presentation

On October 12, 2018, Harris Corporation, a Delaware corporation (“Harris”), entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”) with L3 Technologies, Inc., a Delaware corporation (“L3”), and Leopard Merger Sub Inc., a Delaware corporation and a newly formed, direct wholly owned subsidiary of Harris (“Merger Sub”), pursuant to which Harris and L3 agreed to combine their respective businesses in an all-stock merger, at the closing of which Merger Sub would merge with and into L3, with L3 continuing as the surviving corporation and a direct wholly owned subsidiary of Harris (the “L3Harris Merger”).

The closing of the L3Harris Merger occurred on June 29, 2019 (“Closing Date”), the day after Harris’ fiscal 2019 ended and the first day of the quarter ended September 27, 2019. Upon completion of the L3Harris Merger, Harris was renamed “L3Harris Technologies, Inc.” (“L3Harris”), and each share of L3 common stock converted into the right to receive 1.30 shares (“Exchange Ratio”) of L3Harris common stock. Shares of L3Harris common stock, which previously traded under ticker symbol “HRS” on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) prior to completion of the L3Harris Merger, are traded under ticker symbol “LHX” following completion of the L3Harris Merger. L3Harris was owned on a fully diluted basis approximately 54 percent by Harris shareholders and 46 percent by L3 shareholders immediately following the completion of the L3Harris Merger. 

The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”) requires that the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and most of the disclosures in these Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) (these “Notes”) be presented on a historical basis for periods prior to the closing of the L3Harris Merger. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “we,” “our,” “us,” “Company” and “L3Harris” as used in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (this “Report”) mean Harris and its subsidiaries when referring to periods prior to the end of fiscal 2019 (prior to the L3Harris Merger) and to the combined company L3Harris Technologies, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries when referring to periods after the end of fiscal 2019 (after the L3Harris Merger). 

We are accounting for the L3Harris Merger under the acquisition method of accounting. Under the acquisition method of accounting, we are required to measure identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interests in the acquiree at their fair values as of the Closing Date. The excess of the consideration transferred over those fair values is recorded as goodwill. See Note B — Business Combination in these Notes for additional information related to the L3Harris Merger.

The accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) have been prepared by L3Harris, without an audit, in accordance with GAAP for interim financial information and with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Accordingly, such interim financial statements do not include all information and footnotes necessary for a complete presentation of financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and equity in conformity with GAAP for annual financial statements. In the opinion of management, such interim financial statements reflect all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring adjustments) considered necessary for a fair presentation of our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows for the periods presented therein. The results for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the Fiscal Transition Period (as defined below) or any subsequent period. The balance sheet at June 28, 2019 has been derived from our audited financial statements, but does not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP for annual financial statements. We provide complete, audited financial statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, which includes information and footnotes required by the rules and regulations of the SEC. The information included in this Report should be read in conjunction with the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 28, 2019 (our “Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K”). 

We implemented a new organizational structure effective on June 29, 2019, which resulted in changes to our operating segments, which are also reportable segments and referred to as our business segments. The historical results, discussion and presentation of our business segments as set forth in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and these Notes reflect the impact of these changes for all periods presented in order to present segment information on a comparable basis. There is no impact on our previously reported consolidated statements of income, balance sheets, statements of cash flows or statements of equity resulting from these changes. 

On September 13, 2019, we completed the sale of the Harris Night Vision business to Elbit Systems of America, LLC, a subsidiary of Elbit Systems Ltd., for $350 million (net cash proceeds of $346 million after selling costs and estimated purchase price adjustments), subject to final customary purchase price adjustments as set forth in the definitive agreement. The Harris Night Vision business was not included in any of the operating segments in our new organizational structure and the operating 


results of the Harris Night Vision business through the date of the divestiture are discussed and presented as part of “Other non-reportable business segments” in this Report. 

See Note C — Business Divestitures and Asset Sales in these Notes for more information regarding the divestiture of the Harris Night Vision business. 

Amounts contained in this Report may not always add to totals due to rounding.

Change in Fiscal Year

Through fiscal 2019, our fiscal year ended on the Friday nearest June 30. Commencing June 29, 2019, our fiscal year will end on the Friday nearest December 31, and the period commencing on June 29, 2019 will be a fiscal transition period ending on January 3, 2020 (the “Fiscal Transition Period”). We will file a transition report on Form 10-KT containing audited financial statements for the Fiscal Transition Period.

Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and these Notes and related disclosures. These estimates and assumptions are based on experience and other information available prior to issuance of the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and these Notes. Materially different results can occur as circumstances change and additional information becomes known. 

Significant Accounting Policies Update

There have been no material changes to our significant accounting policies described in our Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K, except as described in “Adoption of New Accounting Standards” below.

Adoption of New Accounting Standards 

Effective June 29, 2019, we adopted Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), as amended (“ASC 842”) using the optional transition method. We initially applied ASC 842 for leases existing as of June 29, 2019 and recognized $270 million of right-of-use (“ROU”) assets and $289 million of lease liabilities in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited). See Note B — Business Combination in these Notes for ROU assets and lease liabilities assumed as part of the L3Harris Merger.

In accordance with ASC 842, we recognized ROU assets and liabilities in our balance sheet for operating and finance leases under which we are the lessee, except for equipment leases and, as permitted by a practical expedient under ASC 842, leases with a term of 12 months or less. Equipment leases were not material at September 27, 2019 and June 29, 2019. We also elected the package of practical expedients permitted under ASC 842 and did not reassess lease classification for existing or expired leases, whether expired or existing contracts contain a lease under the new definition of a lease or whether previously capitalized initial direct costs would qualify for capitalization under ASC 842. 

Operating lease assets are classified as operating ROU assets, operating lease liabilities for obligations due within 12 months are classified as other current liabilities and operating lease liabilities for obligations due longer than 12 months are classified as other long-term liabilities. Finance lease assets are classified as property, plant and equipment. Finance lease liabilities are classified as other current liabilities or other long-term liabilities depending on when the obligation is due. 

Lease assets and liabilities are recognized based on the present value of future lease payments. Lease payments primarily include base rent. We have some lease payments that are based on an index and changes to the index are treated as variable lease payments and recognized in the period in which the obligation for those payments is incurred. Our leases also include non-lease components such as real estate taxes and common-area maintenance costs. We elected the practical expedient to account for lease and non-lease components as a single component. In certain of our leases, the non-lease components are variable and are therefore excluded from lease payments to determine the lease asset. The present value of future lease payments is determined using our incremental borrowing rate at lease commencement over the expected lease term. We use our incremental borrowing rate because our lessee leases do not provide an implicit lease rate. The expected lease term represents the number of years we expect to lease the property, including options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise such option. 

Operating lease expense is recognized as an operating cost on a straight-line basis over the expected lease term in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited). For finance leases, the asset is amortized on a straight-line basis over the lease term, and interest on the lease liability is recognized in interest expense. The amortization of lease assets for our finance leases and interest expense was not material for the quarter ended September 27, 2019. 

We are a lessor for certain arrangements for flight simulators. These leases meet the criteria for operating lease classification. Lease income associated with these leases was not material for the quarter ended September 27, 2019.


Adoption of ASC 842 did not have a material effect on our results of operations or cash flows.


Note B — Business Combination 

On October 12, 2018, Harris entered into the Merger Agreement with L3 and Merger Sub, pursuant to which Harris and L3 agreed to combine their respective businesses in an all-stock merger, at the closing of which Merger Sub would merge with and into L3, with L3 continuing as the surviving corporation and a direct wholly owned subsidiary of Harris. 

The closing of the L3Harris Merger occurred on June 29, 2019, the first day of the quarter ended September 27, 2019. Upon completion of the L3Harris Merger, Harris was renamed “L3Harris Technologies, Inc.” and each share of L3 common stock converted into the right to receive 1.30 shares of L3Harris common stock. L3Harris was owned on a fully diluted basis approximately 54 percent by Harris shareholders and 46 percent by L3 shareholders immediately following the completion of the L3Harris Merger.

L3 was a prime contractor in intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (“ISR”) systems, aircraft sustainment (including modifications and fleet management of special mission aircraft), simulation and training, night vision and image intensification equipment, and security and detection systems. L3 also was a leading provider of a broad range of communication, electronic and sensor systems used on military, homeland security and commercial platforms. L3 employed approximately 31,000 employees and its customers included the U.S. Department of Defense and its prime contractors, the U.S. Intelligence Community, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, foreign governments and domestic and foreign commercial customers. L3 generated calendar 2018 revenue of approximately $10 billion.

As a result of the L3Harris Merger, L3Harris is an agile global aerospace and defense technology innovator, delivering end-to-end solutions that meet customers’ mission-critical needs, with approximately 50,000 employees and customers in 130 countries. We provide advanced defense and commercial technologies across air, land, sea, space and cyber domain.

Approximately 104 million shares of L3Harris common stock were issued to L3 shareholders following the completion of the L3Harris Merger. The trading price of L3Harris common stock was $189.13 per share as of the Closing Date. In addition, replacement L3Harris share-based awards were issued for certain outstanding L3 share-based awards.

We are accounting for the L3Harris Merger under the acquisition method of accounting. Under the acquisition method of accounting, we are required to measure identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interests in the acquiree at their fair values as of the Closing Date. Due to the timing of the L3Harris Merger relative to its size and complexity, our accounting for the L3Harris Merger is preliminary. The acquisition-date fair value estimates for consideration transferred, identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed and noncontrolling interests are based on preliminary calculations and our estimates and assumptions are subject to change as we obtain additional information during the measurement period (up to one year from the Closing Date). 






The goodwill resulting from the L3Harris Merger was primarily associated with L3’s market presence and leading positions, growth opportunities in the markets in which L3 businesses operate, experienced work force and established operating infrastructures. Most of the goodwill related to the L3Harris Merger is nondeductible for tax purposes. As described in more detail in Note X — Business Segment Information in these Notes, we adjusted our segment reporting to reflect our new organizational structure commencing with the quarter ended September 27, 2019. Under the revised reporting structure, our Integrated Mission Systems segment is comprised almost entirely of L3 operating businesses, as of the acquisition date, whereas our other segments are comprised of both L3 and Harris operating businesses. 


See Note K — Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets in these Notes for more information regarding the preliminary allocation of goodwill by reportable business segment under the revised reporting structure.




•$74 million of transaction costs, recognized as incurred;

•$35 million of integration costs, recognized as incurred;

•$61 million of equity award acceleration charges, recognized upon change in control;


Because the L3Harris Merger benefited the entire Company as opposed to any individual business segment, the above costs were not allocated to any business segment. All of the costs above were recorded in the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited), except for the $92 million of additional cost of sales related to the fair value step-up in inventory sold, which is included in the “Cost of product sales and services” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited).

Pro Forma Results

The following summary, prepared on a pro forma basis, presents our unaudited consolidated results of operations for the quarter ended September 28, 2018 as if the L3Harris Merger had been completed as of the beginning of the quarter ended September 28, 2018, after including any post-acquisition adjustments directly attributable to the acquisition, such as the sale of Harris’ Night Vision business, and after including the impact of adjustments such as amortization of intangible assets as well as the related income tax effects. This pro forma presentation does not include any impact of transaction synergies. The pro forma results are not necessarily indicative of our results of operations that actually would have been obtained had the combination of Harris and L3 been completed on the assumed date or for the period presented, or which may be realized in the future.


For the quarter ended September 27, 2019, our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) includes the results of L3 operating businesses from the Closing Date, with total revenue of approximately $2.67 billion (net of intercompany sales between L3 operating businesses) and income from continuing operations before income taxes of approximately $0.19 billion (including $92 million of additional cost of sales related to the fair value step-up in inventory sold and $101 million of restructuring charges for workforce reductions associated with the L3Harris Merger). 

Note C — Business Divestitures and Asset Sales 

Harris Night Vision. On September 13, 2019, we completed the sale of the Harris Night Vision business, a global supplier of high-performance, vision-enhancing products for U.S. and allied military and security forces and commercial customers, for 


$350 million (net cash proceeds of $346 million after selling costs and estimated purchase price adjustments), subject to final customary purchase price adjustments pursuant to a definitive agreement we entered into on April 4, 2019 as part of the regulatory process in connection with the L3Harris Merger and recognized a pre-tax gain of $229 million. 

Through fiscal 2019, the Harris Night Vision business was reported as part of our former Communication Systems segment. As a result of the then-pending divestiture, the Harris Night Vision business was not included in any of our new business segments and, consequently, the operating results of the business are included in “Other non-reportable business segments” for the quarters ended September 27, 2019 and September 28, 2018 in this Report. 



Stormscope. On August 30, 2019, we completed the sale of the Stormscope product line for $20 million in cash and recorded a pre-tax gain of $12 million in the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item of our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited). 

Note D — Stock Options and Other Share-Based Compensation 

As of September 27, 2019, we had options or other share-based compensation outstanding under two Harris shareholder-approved employee stock incentive plans (“SIPs”), the Harris Corporation 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (As Amended and Restated Effective August 27, 2010) and the Harris Corporation 2015 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2015 EIP”), as well as under employee stock incentive plans of L3 assumed by L3Harris (collectively, “L3Harris SIPs”). 

Harris equity awards granted prior to October 12, 2018, in accordance with the terms and conditions that were applicable to such awards prior to the L3Harris Merger, generally automatically vested upon closing of the L3Harris Merger and settled in L3Harris Common Stock, except stock options which automatically vested and remained outstanding. Harris equity awards granted on or after October 12, 2018 did not automatically vest upon closing of the L3Harris Merger, and instead remained outstanding as an award with respect to L3Harris Common Stock in accordance with the terms that were applicable to such award prior to the L3Harris Merger. 

L3’s equity awards granted prior to October 12, 2018, in accordance with the terms and conditions that were applicable to such awards prior to the L3Harris Merger, generally automatically vested upon closing of the L3Harris Merger and settled in L3Harris Common Stock (except stock options automatically converted into stock options with respect to L3Harris Common Stock and remained outstanding), in each case, after giving effect to the Exchange Ratio and appropriate adjustments to reflect the consummation of the L3Harris Merger and the terms and conditions applicable to such awards prior to the L3Harris Merger. Any L3 restricted stock unit or L3 restricted stock award granted on or after October 12, 2018 was converted into a corresponding award with respect to L3Harris Common Stock, with the number of shares underlying such award adjusted based on the Exchange Ratio, and remained outstanding in accordance with the terms that were applicable to such award prior to the L3Harris Merger. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, L3Harris assumed the converted L3 equity awards.

The compensation cost related to our share-based awards that was charged against income was $95 million, including acceleration expense recognized in connection with the L3Harris Merger, and $14 million for the quarters ended September 27, 2019 and September 28, 2018, respectively. 


 The aggregate number of shares of our common stock that we issued under the terms of L3Harris SIPs (including shares issued as merger consideration to settle pre-merger L3 share-based awards), net of shares withheld for tax purposes, was 2,837,153 and 403,953 for the quarters ended September 27, 2019 and September 28, 2018, respectively.


The fair value as of the grant date of each restricted stock unit award and performance stock unit award was based on the closing price of our common stock on the grant date. 

Note E — Restructuring and Other Exit Costs 

We record charges for restructuring and other exit activities related to sales or terminations of product lines, closures or relocations of business activities, changes in management structure and fundamental reorganizations that affect the nature and focus of operations. Such charges include termination benefits, contract termination costs and costs to consolidate facilities or relocate employees. We record these charges at their fair value when incurred. In cases where employees are required to render service until they are terminated in order to receive the termination benefits and will be retained beyond the minimum retention period, we record the expense ratably over the future service period. These charges are included as a component of the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited).

L3Harris Merger-Related Restructuring Costs 

During the quarter ended September 27, 2019, we recorded $111 million of restructuring charges for workforce reductions (including severance and other employee-related exit costs) in connection with the L3Harris Merger. At September 27, 2019, we had recorded liabilities of $74 million associated with these restructuring actions, of which substantially all will be paid in the next twelve months. At this time, we are unable to reasonably estimate the total amount of cost expected to be incurred in connection with L3Harris Merger-related restructuring activities because we are still formulating plans for facility consolidations. We will disclose the total amount of cost expected to be incurred in connection with L3Harris Merger-related activities in future filings once the amount can be reasonably estimated. 

Previous Restructuring and Other Exit Costs

Prior to the L3Harris Merger, we had liabilities of $16 million for lease obligations associated with exited facilities with remaining terms of four years or less, of which $13 million remained outstanding at September 27, 2019.




Note F — Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) (“AOCI”) 






Note G — Receivables 



We have a receivables sale agreement (“RSA”) with a third-party financial institution that permits us to sell, on a non-recourse basis, up to $100 million of outstanding receivables at any given time. From time to time, we have sold certain customer receivables under the RSA, which we continue to service and collect on behalf of the third-party financial institution and which we account for as sales of receivables with sale proceeds included in net cash from operating activities. Outstanding accounts receivable sold pursuant to the RSA were not material at September 27, 2019 and June 28, 2019. 


Note H — Contract Assets and Contract Liabilities 

 Contract assets include unbilled amounts typically resulting from revenue recognized exceeding amounts billed to customers for contracts utilizing the percentage of completion (“POC”) cost-to-cost revenue recognition method. We bill customers as work progresses in accordance with agreed-upon contractual terms, either at periodic intervals, upon achievement of contractual milestones or upon deliveries and, in certain arrangements, the customer may withhold payment of a small portion of the contract price until contract completion. Contract liabilities include advance payments and billings in excess of revenue recognized, including deferred revenue associated with extended product warranties. Contract assets and liabilities are reported on a contract-by-contract basis at the end of each reporting period. The increase in contract assets and contract liabilities in the quarter ended September 27, 2019 was primarily due to contract assets and liabilities acquired in connection with the L3Harris Merger. Changes in contract assets and contract liabilities balances during the quarter ended September 27, 2019 were not materially impacted by any factors other than those described above.







Impairment losses related to our contract assets were not material during the quarter ended September 27, 2019 and September 28, 2018. For the quarter ended September 27, 2019, we recognized revenue of $0.6 billion related to contract liabilities that were outstanding at June 28, 2019. For the quarter ended September 28, 2018, we recognized revenue of $0.2 billion related to contract liabilities that were outstanding at June 29, 2018.

Note I — Inventories 



Inventories at September 27, 2019 included engineering, selling and administrative costs of $39 million. Engineering, selling and administrative costs included in inventories at June 28, 2019 were not material. Inventories acquired in connection with the L3Harris Merger included $40 million of engineering, selling and administrative costs.


Note J — Property, Plant and Equipment 



Depreciation and amortization expense related to property, plant and equipment was $79 million and $35 million for the quarters ended September 27, 2019 and September 28, 2018, respectively. 

Note K — Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 

Goodwill. As discussed in Note X — Business Segment Information in these Notes, after the completion of the L3Harris Merger, we adjusted our segment reporting to reflect our new organizational structure effective for the quarter ended September 27, 2019. Because our accounting for the L3Harris Merger is still preliminary, we assigned goodwill acquired on a provisional basis. Immediately before and after our goodwill assignments, we completed an assessment of any potential goodwill impairment under our former and new segment reporting structure and determined that no impairment existed. 





The table below presents information for our identifiable intangible assets that are subject to amortization and indefinite-lived intangible assets.


For the quarter ended September 27, 2019, amortization expense related to intangible assets was $125 million and primarily related to the L3Harris Merger. For the quarter ended September 28, 2018, amortization expense related to intangible assets was $29 million and primarily related to our acquisition of Exelis Inc. 



Note L — Accrued Warranties 




 Note M — Debt 




As part of our purchase accounting for the L3Harris Merger, the L3 Notes (defined below) were recorded at fair value ($3.52 billion on a combined basis, representing a premium of $171 million). This premium will be amortized to interest expense over the lives of the related New L3Harris Notes (defined below) and such amortization is reflected as a reduction of interest expense in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited). 



Debt Exchange. In connection with the L3Harris Merger, on July 2, 2019 we settled our previously announced debt exchange offers in which eligible holders of L3 senior notes (“L3 Notes”) could exchange such outstanding notes for (1) up to $3.35 billion aggregate principal amount of new notes issued by L3Harris (“New L3Harris Notes”) and (2) one dollar in cash for each $1,000 of principal amount. Each series of the New L3Harris Notes issued has an interest rate and maturity date that is identical to the L3 Notes. 


Interest on the New L3Harris Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on February 15 and August 15, commencing on August 15, 2019, in the case of the 4.95% 2021 Notes; on June 15 and December 15, commencing on December 15, 2019, in the case of the 3.85% 2023 Notes, 3.85% 2026 Notes and 4.40% 2028 Notes; and on May 28 and November 28, commencing on November 28, 2019, in the case of the 3.95% 2024 Notes. The New L3Harris Notes are unsecured senior obligations and rank equally in right of payment with all other L3Harris senior unsecured debt. 

The New L3Harris Notes are redeemable in whole or in part at any time or in part from time to time, at our option, until three months prior to the maturity date, in the case of the 4.95% 2021 Notes, 3.95% 2024 Notes, 3.85% 2026 Notes and 4.40% 2028 Notes, and until one month prior to the maturity date, in the case of the 3.85% 2023 Notes, at a redemption price equal to the greater of 100 percent of the principal amount of the notes to be redeemed or the sum of the present values of the principal amount and the remaining scheduled payments of interest on the notes to be redeemed, discounted from the scheduled payment dates to the date of redemption at the “treasury rate” as defined in the note, plus 20 basis points, in the case of the 3.85% 2023 Notes and 3.95% 2024 Notes, or 25 basis points, in the case of the 4.95% 2021 Notes, 3.85% 2026 Notes and 4.40% 2028 Notes, plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest due at the date of redemption. 


Following the settlement of the exchange offers, there was approximately $329 million of existing L3 Senior Notes outstanding, which remain the senior unsecured obligations of L3.


Note N — Postretirement Benefit Plans 





The service cost component of net periodic benefit income is included in the “Cost of product sales and services” and “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line items in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited). The non-service cost components of net periodic benefit income are included in the “Non-operating income” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited). 

We contributed $327 million to our qualified defined benefit pension plans during the quarter ended September 27, 2019, including a $302 million voluntary contribution to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans. We currently anticipate making no contributions to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans and only minor contributions to our non-U.S. pension plans during the remainder of the Fiscal Transition Period. 

See Note B — Business Combination in these Notes for information regarding postretirement benefit plan liabilities assumed in connection with the L3Harris Merger. 


Note O — Income From Continuing Operations Per Share 



Potential dilutive common shares primarily consist of employee stock options and restricted and performance unit awards. Income from continuing operations per diluted common share excludes the anti-dilutive impact of 470,983 and 160,167 weighted average share-based awards outstanding for the quarters ended September 27, 2019 and September 28, 2018, respectively.

Note P — Research and Development 

Company-sponsored research and development costs are expensed as incurred. These costs were $149 million and $72 million for the quarters ended September 27, 2019 and September 28, 2018, respectively, and are included in the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited). Customer-sponsored research and development costs are incurred pursuant to contractual arrangements, principally U.S. Government-sponsored contracts requiring us to provide a product or service meeting certain defined performance or other specifications (such as designs), and are accounted for principally by the POC cost-to-cost revenue recognition method. Customer-sponsored research and development is included in our revenue and cost of product sales and services.

Note Q — Leases 

As discussed in Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards in these Notes, effective June 29, 2019, we adopted ASC 842. Our operating and finance leases at September 27, 2019 were for real estate such as office space, warehouses, manufacturing, research and development facilities, tower space and land, and for equipment. Finance leases were not material at September 27, 2019 and are therefore not included in the disclosures below. 

Operating lease cost was $45 million and other lease expenses, including short-term and equipment lease cost, variable lease cost and sublease income, were not material for the quarter ended September 27, 2019. 








As of September 27, 2019, we had $279 million of additional operating lease commitments for real estate facilities that have not yet commenced. These leases will commence in 2019 or 2020 with lease terms of 5 to 25 years. 



Rent expense was $73 million for the fiscal year ended June 28, 2019. 

Note R — Non-Operating Income 





Pension adjustment recorded as "Non-operating income" in our Consolidated Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) represents the non-service component of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit costs, which includes interest cost, expected return on plan assets, amortization of net actuarial gain and effect of curtailments or settlements. 


Note S — Income Taxes  

Effective Tax Rate

Our effective tax rate (income taxes as a percentage of income from continuing operations before income taxes) was 1.1 percent in the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with 16.0 percent in the quarter ended September 28, 2018. In the quarter ended September 27, 2019, our effective tax rate benefited from the favorable impact of excess tax benefits related to equity-based compensation, from the ability to utilize capital loss carryforwards with a full valuation allowance against capital gains generated from the Harris Night Vision business divestiture, and from the release of uncertain tax positions due to statute of limitations expirations. In the quarter ended September 28, 2018, our effective tax rate benefited from the tax rate reduction under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”), from the favorable impact of excess tax benefits related to equity-based compensation, and from several differences in GAAP and tax accounting related to investments. 

Tax Uncertainties



As of September 27, 2019, we had $384 million of unrecognized tax benefits, of which $324 million would favorably impact our future tax rates in the event that the tax benefits are eventually recognized. 

We recognize accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as part of our income tax expense. We had accrued $29 million for the potential payment of interest and penalties as of September 27, 2019 (and this amount was not included in the $384 million of unrecognized tax benefits balance at September 27, 2019 shown above) and $29 million of this total could favorably impact future tax rates.

Note T — Fair Value Measurements 


•Level 1 — Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.

•Level 2 — Observable inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1, including quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active; and inputs other than quoted prices that are observable or are derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data by correlation or other means.

•Level 3 — Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity, are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities, and reflect our own assumptions about the assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability developed using the best information available in the circumstances.

In certain instances, fair value is estimated using quoted market prices obtained from external pricing services. In obtaining such data from the external pricing services, we have evaluated the methodologies used to develop the estimate of fair value in order to assess whether such valuations are representative of fair value, including net asset value (“NAV”). Additionally, in certain circumstances, the NAV reported by an asset manager may be adjusted when sufficient evidence indicates NAV is not representative of fair value.







Primarily represents obligations to pay benefits under certain non-qualified deferred compensation plans, which we include in the “Compensation and benefits” and “Other long-term liabilities” line items in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited). Under these plans, participants designate investment options (including stock and fixed-income funds), which serve as the basis for measurement of the notional value of their accounts.





Fair value was estimated using a market approach based on quoted market prices for our debt traded in the secondary market. If our long-term debt in our balance sheet were measured at fair value, it would be categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.

Note U — Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities 

In the normal course of business, we are exposed to global market risks, including the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and changes in interest rates. We use derivative instruments to manage our exposure to such risks and formally document all relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as the risk-management objective and strategy for undertaking hedge transactions. We also may enter into derivative instruments that are not designated as hedges and do not qualify for hedge accounting. We recognize all derivatives in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited) at fair value. We do not hold or issue derivatives for speculative trading purposes.


Exchange-Rate Risk — Fair Value Hedges

To manage the exposure in our balance sheet to risks from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, we implement fair value hedges. More specifically, we have used foreign currency forward contracts and options to hedge certain balance sheet items, including foreign currency denominated accounts receivable and inventory. Changes in the value of the derivatives and the related hedged items are reflected in earnings, in the “Cost of product sales and services” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited). 

As of September 27, 2019, we had no outstanding foreign currency forward contracts to hedge balance sheet items. The net gain or losses on foreign currency forward contracts designated as fair value hedges were not material for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 or for the quarter ended September 28, 2018. In addition, no amounts were recognized in earnings for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 or for the quarter ended September 28, 2018 related to hedged firm commitments that no longer qualify as fair value hedges.

Exchange-Rate Risk — Cash Flow Hedges

To manage our exposure to currency risk and market fluctuation risk associated with anticipated cash flows that are probable of occurring in the future, we implement cash flow hedges. More specifically, we use foreign currency forward contracts and options to hedge off-balance sheet future foreign currency commitments, including purchase commitments to suppliers, future committed sales to customers and intersegment transactions. These derivatives are used to hedge currency exposures from cash flows anticipated across our business segments. We also hedge U.S. Dollar payments to suppliers to maintain our anticipated profit margins in our international operations. These derivatives have only nominal intrinsic value at the time of purchase and have a high degree of correlation to the anticipated cash flows they are designated to hedge. Hedge effectiveness is determined by the correlation of the anticipated cash flows from the hedging instruments and the anticipated cash flows from the future foreign currency commitments through the maturity dates of the derivatives used to hedge these cash flows. These financial instruments are marked-to-market using forward prices and fair value quotes with the offset to other comprehensive income. Gains and losses in accumulated other comprehensive income are reclassified to earnings when the related hedged item is recognized in earnings. The cash flow impact of our derivatives is included in the same category in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (Unaudited) as the cash flows of the related hedged items. Notional amounts are used to measure the volume of foreign currency forward contracts and do not represent exposure to foreign currency losses. At September 27, 2019, we had open foreign currency forward contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $401 million to hedge certain forecasted transactions in the Euro, British Pounds, Australian Dollars, Canadian Dollars, New Zealand Dollars and United Arab Emirates Dirhams.

At September 27, 2019, our foreign currency forward contracts had maturities through 2023.

The table below presents the fair values of our derivatives designated as foreign currency hedging instruments in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited) as of September 27, 2019. As of June 28, 2019, we had no outstanding foreign currency forward contracts. 




See Note T — Fair Value Measurements in these Notes for a description of the fair value hierarchy related to our foreign currency forward contracts.

For the quarter ended September 27, 2019, the net unrealized gain or loss recognized in other comprehensive income from foreign currency derivatives designated as cash flow hedges was a net loss of $4 million before income taxes. For the quarter ended September 28, 2018, the net unrealized gain or loss recognized in other comprehensive income from foreign currency derivatives designated as cash flow hedges was not material. 

For the quarter ended September 27, 2019, we reclassified a $1 million pre-tax loss from “Accumulated other comprehensive income” into earnings from foreign currency derivatives designated as cash flow hedges upon discontinuance of cash flow hedge accounting as a result of forecasted transactions determined to be probable of not occurring. For the quarter ended September 28, 2018, the net gain or loss reclassified from “Accumulated other comprehensive income” into earnings from foreign currency derivatives designated as cash flow hedges was not material. These gains and losses are included in the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited). 

At September 27, 2019, the estimated amount of existing losses to be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months was $3 million before income taxes.


Interest-Rate Risk — Cash Flow Hedges 

At September 27, 2019, we had three open treasury lock agreements with third-party financial institution counterparties (“treasury locks”) with a total notional amount of $1.05 billion that were classified as cash flow hedges, including two open treasury lock agreements with a combined notional amount of $650 million that were assumed in connection with the L3Harris Merger (“L3 treasury locks”).

These treasury locks were initiated in January 2019 to hedge against fluctuations in interest payments due to changes in the benchmark interest rate (10-year U.S. Treasury rate) associated with the anticipated issuance of long-term fixed-rate notes (“New Notes”) to redeem or repay at maturity the entire $400 million outstanding principal amount of our 2.7% Notes due April 27, 2020 (“2020 Notes”) and the entire $650 million outstanding principal amount of our 4.95% Notes due February 15, 2021 (“2021 Notes”).

We designated these treasury locks as cash flow hedges against fluctuations in interest payments on the New Notes due to changes in the benchmark interest rate prior to issuance, which we expect to occur before the date of maturity of the 2020 Notes and 2021 Notes. If the benchmark interest rate increases during the period of the agreement, the treasury locks position will become an asset and we will receive a cash payment from the counterparty when we terminate the treasury locks upon issuance of the New Notes. Conversely, if the benchmark interest rate decreases, the treasury locks position will become a liability and we will make a cash payment to the counterparty when we terminate the treasury locks upon issuance of the New Notes. The fair value of the treasury locks is measured using a pricing model that utilizes observable market data such as the benchmark interest rate. See Note T — Fair Value Measurements in these Notes for additional information.

At September 27, 2019, the aggregate fair value of these treasury locks was a liability of $107 million, which was recorded in the “Other accrued items” and “Other long-term liabilities” line items in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited). The unrealized after-tax loss associated with these treasury locks included in the “Accumulated other comprehensive loss” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited) was $54 million and $20 million at September 29, 2019 and June 28, 2019, respectively. We recognized a $35 million liability for the L3 treasury locks as part of our purchase accounting for the L3Harris Merger. The net gains or losses from cash flow hedges recognized in earnings or recorded in other comprehensive income were not material for the quarters ended September 27, 2019 and September 28, 2018.

Note V — Changes in Estimates 

Contract Estimates 

 Under the POC cost-to-cost method of revenue recognition, a single estimated profit margin is used to recognize profit for each performance obligation over its period of performance. Recognition of profit on a contract requires estimates of the total cost at completion and transaction price and the measurement of progress towards completion. Due to the long-term nature of many of our contracts, developing the estimated total cost at completion and total transaction price often requires judgment. Factors that must be considered in estimating the cost of the work to be completed include the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, subcontractor performance and the risk and impact of delayed performance. Factors that must be considered in estimating the total transaction price include contractual cost or performance incentives (such as incentive fees, award fees and penalties) and other forms of variable consideration as well as our historical experience and expectation for performance on the contract. At the outset of each contract, we gauge the complexity and perceived risks and establish an estimated total cost at completion in line with these expectations. After establishing the estimated total cost at completion, we follow a standard Estimate at Completion (“EAC”) process in which we review the progress and performance on our ongoing contracts at least quarterly and, in many cases, more frequently. If we successfully retire risks associated with the technical, schedule and cost aspects of a contract, we may lower our estimated total cost at completion commensurate with the retirement of these risks. Conversely, if we are not successful in retiring these risks, we may increase our estimated total cost at completion. Additionally, as the contract progresses, our estimates of total transaction price may increase or decrease if, for example, we receive award fees that are higher or lower than expected. When adjustments in estimated total costs at completion or in estimated total transaction price are determined, the related impact on operating income is recognized using the cumulative catch-up method, which recognizes in the current period the cumulative effect of such adjustments for all prior periods. Any anticipated losses on these contracts are fully recognized in the period in which the losses become evident.

Net EAC adjustments resulting from changes in estimates increased our operating income by $62 million ($46 million after-tax or $.20 per diluted share) and decreased our operating income by $3 million ($2 million after-tax or $.02 per diluted share) for the quarters ended September 27, 2019 and September 28, 2018, respectively. Revenue recognized from performance obligations satisfied in prior periods was $73 million and $7 million for the quarters ended September 27, 2019 and September 28, 2018, respectively.

Note W — Backlog 

Backlog, which is the equivalent of our remaining performance obligations, represents the future revenue we expect to recognize as we perform on our current contracts. Backlog comprises both funded backlog (i.e., firm orders for which funding 


is authorized and appropriated) and unfunded backlog. Backlog excludes unexercised contract options and potential orders under ordering-type contracts, such as indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity contracts. 

At September 27, 2019, our backlog was $20.3 billion. We expect to recognize approximately half of the revenue associated with this backlog within the next twelve months and the substantial majority of the revenue associated with this backlog within the next 3 years. 

Note X — Business Segment Information 


•Integrated Mission Systems, including ISR; advanced electro-optical and infrared solutions; and maritime power and navigation;

•Space and Airborne Systems, including space payloads, sensors and full-mission solutions; classified intelligence and cyber defense; avionics; and electronic warfare;

•Communication Systems, including tactical communications; broadband communications; night vision; and public safety; and

•Aviation Systems, including defense aviation products; security, detection and other commercial aviation products; air traffic management; and commercial and military pilot training.

The historical results, discussion and presentation of our business segments as set forth in this Report reflect the impact of these adjustments for all periods presented. There is no impact on our previously reported consolidated statements of income, balance sheets, statements of cash flows or statements of equity resulting from these adjustments.






Disaggregation of Revenue
























Note Y — Legal Proceedings and Contingencies 


Environmental Matters 



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

To the Shareholders and Board of Directors of L3Harris Technologies, Inc.

Results of Review of Interim Financial Statements 

We have reviewed the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet of L3Harris Technologies, Inc. (the Company) as of September 27, 2019, the related condensed consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, cash flows and equity for the quarters ended September 27, 2019 and September 28, 2018, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the “condensed consolidated interim financial statements”). Based on our reviews, we are not aware of any material modifications that should be made to the condensed consolidated interim financial statements for them to be in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. 

We have previously audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the consolidated balance sheet of the Company as of June 28, 2019, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, cash flows and equity for the year then ended, and the related notes and financial statement schedule (not presented herein); and in our report dated August 22, 2019, we expressed an unqualified audit opinion on those consolidated financial statements. In our opinion, the information set forth in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet as of June 28, 2019, is fairly stated, in all material respects, in relation to the consolidated balance sheet from which it has been derived. 

Basis for Review Results 

These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the SEC and the PCAOB. We conducted our review in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. A review of interim financial statements consists principally of applying analytical procedures and making inquiries of persons responsible for financial and accounting matters. It is substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB, the objective of which is the expression of an opinion regarding the financial statements taken as a whole. Accordingly, we do not express such an opinion.


Orlando, Florida



Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

OVERVIEW

The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”) is intended to assist in an understanding of our financial condition and results of operations. This MD&A is provided as a supplement to, should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and accompanying Notes appearing elsewhere in this Report (the “Notes”). In addition, reference should be made to our audited Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in our Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K. Except for the historical information contained herein, the discussions in this MD&A contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our future results could differ materially from those discussed herein. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below in this MD&A under “Forward-Looking Statements and Factors that May Affect Future Results.” 


•Results of Operations — an analysis of our consolidated results of operations and the results in each of our business segments, to the extent the segment results are helpful to an understanding of our business as a whole, for the periods presented in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). 

•Liquidity, Capital Resources and Financial Strategies — an analysis of cash flows, funding of pension plans, common stock repurchases, dividends, capital structure and resources, off-balance sheet arrangements and commercial commitments and contractual obligations.

•Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates — information about accounting policies that require critical judgments and estimates and about accounting standards that have been issued, but are not yet effective for us, and their potential impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

•Forward-Looking Statements and Factors that May Affect Future Results — cautionary information about forward-looking statements and a description of certain risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical results or our current expectations or projections.

As described in more detail in Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards and in Note B — Business Combination in the Notes, we completed the L3Harris Merger on June 29, 2019, the day after Harris’ fiscal 2019 ended and the first day of the quarter ended September 27, 2019. As described in more detail in Note C — Business Divestitures and Asset Sales in the Notes, we completed the sale of the Harris Night Vision business on September 13, 2019 pursuant to a definitive agreement we entered as part of the regulatory process in connection with the L3Harris Merger. 



•Integrated Mission Systems, including ISR; advanced electro-optical and infrared solutions; and maritime power and navigation;

•Space and Airborne Systems, including space payloads, sensors and full-mission solutions; classified intelligence and cyber defense; avionics; and electronic warfare;

•Communication Systems, including tactical communications; broadband communications; night vision; and public safety; and

•Aviation Systems, including defense aviation products; security, detection and other commercial aviation products; air traffic management; and commercial and military pilot training.

See Note X — Business Segment Information in the Notes for further information regarding our business segments, including how we define segment operating income or loss. 

As described in more detail in Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards in the Notes, commencing June 29, 2019, our fiscal year will end on the Friday nearest December 31, and the period commencing on June 29, 2019 will be the Fiscal Transition Period. We will file a transition report on Form 10-KT containing audited financial statements for the Fiscal Transition Period.


As described in more detail in Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards in the Notes and in Note Q — Leases in the Notes, effective June 29, 2019 we adopted ASC 842, a new lease standard that supersedes existing lease guidance under GAAP. This standard requires, among other things, the recognition of right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet for most lease arrangements and disclosure of certain information about leasing arrangements.

Amounts contained in this Report may not always add to totals due to rounding.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS


Highlights






Consolidated Results of Operations




As Reported

Revenue

The increase in revenue for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was primarily due to the inclusion of $2.67 billion of revenue (net of intercompany sales eliminations) from L3 operations in operating results for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 and organic revenue growth in our Space and Airborne Systems and Communication Systems segments. 



Gross Margin

The increase in gross margin for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was primarily due to the inclusion of L3 operations in operating results for the quarter ended September 27, 2019. The decrease in gross margin as a percentage of revenue (“gross margin percentage”) for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was primarily due to $92 million of additional cost of sales related to the fair value step-up in inventory sold and a mix of program revenue and product sales with relatively lower gross margin percentage in the quarter ended September 27, 2019.


Engineering, Selling and Administrative Expenses

 The increases in Engineering, Selling and Administrative (“ESA”) expenses and ESA expense as a percentage of total revenue (“ESA percentage”) for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 were primarily due to the inclusion of L3 operations in operating results and $281 million of charges for integration, restructuring and other costs associated with the L3Harris Merger in the quarter ended September 27, 2019. ESA expenses for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 also included a $12 million gain on sale of a product line, offset by a $12 million non-cash cumulative adjustment to lease expense.


Gain (loss) on Sales of Businesses

 The increase in gain (loss) on sales of businesses for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was due to a $229 million pre-tax gain on the sale of the Harris Night Vision business, which was completed on September 13, 2019.

See Note C — Business Divestitures and Asset Sales in the Notes for further information.

Non-Operating Income 

The increase in non-operating income in the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was primarily due to an increase in the non-service cost components of pension and other postretirement benefit plan income, reflecting the inclusion in pension and other postretirement benefit plan income of benefit plans assumed in connection with the L3Harris Merger.

See Note R — Non-Operating Income and Note N — Postretirement Benefit Plans in the Notes for further information.

Net Interest Expense


Income Taxes

Our effective tax rate (income taxes as a percentage of income from continuing operations before income taxes) was 1.1 percent for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with 16.0 percent for the quarter ended September 28, 2018. Our effective tax rate for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 benefited from the favorable impact of excess tax benefits related to equity-based compensation, the ability to utilize capital loss carryforwards with a full valuation allowance against capital gains generated from the Harris Night Vision business divestiture, and the release of reserves for uncertain tax positions due to statute of limitations expirations. Our effective tax rate for the quarter ended September 28, 2018 benefited from the tax rate reduction under the Tax Act, the favorable impact of excess tax benefits related to equity-based compensation, and from several differences in GAAP and tax accounting related to investments. 

Income From Continuing Operations

The increase in income from continuing operations for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was primarily due to the combined effects of the reasons noted above in this “As Reported” discussion regarding the quarters ended September 27, 2019 and September 28, 2018.


Income From Continuing Operations Per Diluted Common Share Attributable to L3Harris Technologies, Inc. Common Shareholders

The increase in income from continuing operations per diluted common share attributable to L3Harris Technologies, Inc. common shareholders for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was primarily due to higher income from continuing operations, as discussed above, partially offset by an increase in our diluted weighted average common shares outstanding as a result of approximately 104 million shares issued in connection with L3Harris Merger. 


Pro Forma

Revenue

The increase in revenue for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with pro forma revenue for the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was primarily due to higher revenue in our Space and Airborne Systems segment, reflecting growth in the Avionics and Space businesses, and higher revenue in our Integrated Mission Systems and Communication Systems segments. 

Gross Margin

The slight increase in gross margin and decrease in gross margin percentage for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the pro forma gross margin and pro forma gross margin percentage for the quarter ended September 28, 2018 were primarily due to $92 million of additional cost of sales related to the fair value step-up in inventory sold in the quarter ended September 27, 2019, partially offset by higher volume and strong operational performance.

Engineering, Selling and Administrative Expenses

The increases in ESA expenses and ESA percentage for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with pro forma ESA expense and pro forma ESA percentage for the quarter ended September 28, 2018 were primarily due to $281 million of charges for integration, restructuring and other costs associated with the L3Harris Merger in the quarter ended September 27, 2019, partially offset by integration savings.

Gain (loss) on Sales of Businesses

 The increase in gain (loss) on sales of businesses for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with pro forma gain (loss) on sales of businesses for the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was due to a $229 million pre-tax gain on the sale of the Harris Night Vision business, which was completed on September 13, 2019.

See Note C — Business Divestitures and Asset Sales in the Notes for further information.

Non-Operating Income 

The increase in non-operating income for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with pro forma non-operating income for the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was primarily due to a $21 million debt extinguishment loss recognized by L3 in the quarter ended September 28, 2018.

Net Interest Expense


Income Taxes



Income From Continuing Operations

The increase in income from continuing operations for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with pro forma income from continuing operations for the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was primarily due to the combined effects of the reasons noted above in this “Pro Forma” discussion regarding the quarters ended September 27, 2019 and September 28, 2018.

Income From Continuing Operations Per Diluted Common Share Attributable to L3Harris Common Shareholders

The increase in income from continuing operations per diluted common share attributable to L3Harris common shareholders for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with pro forma income from continuing operations per diluted common share for the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was primarily due to higher income from continuing operations, as discussed above. 


Supplemental Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Income Statement Information 





a.Reflects the elimination of intercompany balances and transactions between L3 and Harris.

b.Reflects the sale of the Harris Night Vision business. 




d.Represents elimination of $2 million accrual of transaction costs at September 28, 2018, which were included in merger, acquisition and divestiture related expenses in L3’s historical statement of operations for the quarter ended September 28, 2018.

e.In connection with the L3Harris Merger, on October 12, 2018, each company entered into a letter agreement with its chief executive officer, to outline the terms of each such person’s role and compensation arrangements following the merger. Amounts shown reflect the increase in compensation expense as a result of these modified arrangements.

f.Reflects the impact of change-in-control payments under certain post-retirement and share-based and deferred compensation arrangements.

g.Reflects the elimination of amortization of net actuarial losses from accumulated comprehensive loss related to L3's postretirement benefit plans as part of purchase accounting.

h.Reflects the elimination of amortization of deferred debt issuance costs as part of purchase accounting.

i.Reflects amortization of the increase to L3’s long-term debt based on a $172 million fair value adjustment.


1.Merger, acquisition and divestiture related expenses of $5 million for the quarter ended September 28, 2018 were reclassified to engineering, selling and administrative expenses.

2.Loss on sale of the Crestview Aerospace and TCS businesses of $4 million for the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was reclassified to loss on sale of businesses.

3.Interest and other income, net of $15 million, of which $5 million was reclassified to interest income and $10 million was reclassified to non-operating income for the quarter ended September 28, 2018.

4.Debt retirement charges of $21 million for the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was reclassified to non-operating income

k.Represents the income tax impact of the pro forma adjustments, using the blended worldwide tax rates for L3, in the case of pro forma adjustments to L3’s historical results, and the federal and state statutory tax rates for Harris, in the case of pro forma adjustments to Harris’ historical results. As a result, the combined statutory tax rate used to tax-effect the pro forma adjustments was approximately 23 percent for the quarter ended September 28, 2018. These tax rates do not represent the combined company’s effective tax rate, which will include other tax charges and benefits, and does not take into account any historical or possible future tax events that may impact the combined company following the consummation of the L3Harris Merger.

l.Increase in common stock due to shares of L3Harris common stock issued for L3 common stock, L3 restricted stock units and L3 performance stock units. Diluted shares also include the dilutive impact of L3Harris stock options issued for L3 stock options calculated using the treasury stock method.


Discussion of Business Segment Results of Operations

Integrated Mission Systems




The changes in segment revenue, operating income and operating income as a percentage of revenue (“operating margin percentage”) in the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 were primarily due to the inclusion of L3 operations in segment operating results as a result of the L3Harris Merger during the quarter ended September 27, 2019. Because the Integrated Mission Systems segment is almost entirely comprised of L3 businesses, comparison to prior year segment operating metrics is not meaningful. In the quarter ended September 27, 2019, segment revenue benefited from growth in ISR missionization and increased demand from the U.S. Government for Wescam turret systems. 

Space and Airborne Systems


The changes in segment revenue and operating income in the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 were primarily due to the inclusion of L3 operations in segment operating results as a result of the L3Harris Merger during the quarter ended September 27, 2019 and revenue growth in the Avionics and Space businesses.

Segment operating margin percentage in the quarter ended September 27, 2019 was comparable with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 reflecting integration savings, offset by a mix of program revenue and product sales with relatively lower operating margin percentage. 

Communication Systems


The changes in segment revenue and operating income in the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 were primarily due to the inclusion of L3 operations in segment operating results as a result of the L3Harris Merger during the quarter ended September 27, 2019, $66 million of higher revenue in Tactical Communications, reflecting increased U.S. DoD modernization and European demand, and $16 million of higher revenue in the Public Safety business.

The decrease in segment operating margin percentage in the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was primarily due to a mix of program revenue and product sales with relatively lower operating margin percentage, partially offset by strong operational performance. 


Aviation Systems




The changes in segment revenue and operating income in the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 were primarily due to the inclusion of L3 operations in segment operating results as a result of the L3Harris Merger during the quarter ended September 27, 2019. Because the Aviation Systems segment is primarily comprised of L3 businesses, comparison to certain prior year segment operating metrics is not meaningful. In the quarter ended September 27, 2019, segment revenue also reflected increased demand for fuzing and ordnance products in Defense Aviation Products, offset by a decline in comparative revenue in Commercial Training Solutions and the competitive loss of the U.S. Air Force C-17 contract.

The slight decrease in segment operating margin percentage in the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was primarily due to a mix of program revenue and product sales with relatively lower operating margin percentage, partially offset by improved operational performance. 

LIQUIDITY, CAPITAL RESOURCES AND FINANCIAL STRATEGIES

Cash Flows


Cash and cash equivalents


•$1,132 million of net cash received from the L3Harris Merger;

•$346 million of net proceeds from the sale the Harris Night Vision business;

•$95 million of proceeds from exercises of employee stock options; and

•$81 million of net cash provided by operating activities; partially offset by

•$750 million used to repurchase shares of our common stock; 

•$177 million used to pay cash dividends;

•$97 million of net repayments of borrowings; and

•$84 million used for net additions of property, plant and equipment.



•$216 million of net proceeds from borrowings (primarily under our commercial paper program); and

•$117 million of net cash provided by operating activities; partially offset by

•$200 million used to repurchase shares of our common stock; 

•$82 million used to pay cash dividends; and

•$31 million used for net additions of property, plant and equipment.

At September 27, 2019, we had cash and cash equivalents of $1.0 billion, and we have a senior unsecured $2 billion revolving credit facility that expires in June 2024 (all of which was available to us as of September 27, 2019). Additionally, we had $7.0 billion of long-term debt outstanding at September 27, 2019, the majority of which was assumed in connection with the L3Harris Merger in the quarter ended September 27, 2019 or was incurred in connection with our acquisition of Exelis Inc. in fiscal 2015. Our $1.0 billion of cash and cash equivalents at September 27, 2019 included $233 million held by our foreign subsidiaries, of which $155 million was considered permanently reinvested. Determining the future tax cost of repatriating such funds to the U.S. is not practical at this time. However, we have no current plans to repatriate the funds. 

Given our current cash position, outlook for funds generated from operations, credit ratings, available credit facility, cash needs and debt structure, we have not experienced to date, and do not expect to experience, any material issues with liquidity, although we can give no assurances concerning our future liquidity, particularly in light of our overall level of debt, U.S. Government budget uncertainties and the state of global commerce and financial uncertainty.


There can be no assurance, however, that our business will continue to generate cash flows at current levels or that the cost or availability of future borrowings, if any, under our commercial paper program or our credit facility or in the debt markets will not be impacted by any potential future credit or capital markets disruptions. If we are unable to maintain cash balances or generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our obligations, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, reduce or eliminate strategic acquisitions, reduce or terminate our share repurchases, reduce or eliminate dividends, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt or obtain additional financing. Our ability to make principal payments or pay interest on or refinance our indebtedness depends on our future performance and financial results, which, to a certain extent, are subject to general conditions in or affecting the defense, government and other markets we serve and to general economic, political, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors beyond our control.





Funding of Pension Plans

Funding requirements under applicable laws and regulations are a major consideration in making contributions to our U.S. pension plans. Although we have significant discretion in making voluntary contributions, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended by the Pension Protection Act of 2006 and further amended by the Worker, Retiree, and Employer Recovery Act of 2008, the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act (“MAP-21”), and applicable Internal Revenue Code regulations mandate minimum funding thresholds. Failure to satisfy the minimum funding thresholds could result in restrictions on our ability to amend the plans or make benefit payments. With respect to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans, we intend to contribute annually not less than the required minimum funding thresholds.

The Highway and Transportation Funding Act of 2014 and the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 further extended the interest rate stabilization provision of MAP-21 until 2020. We made a voluntary contributions of $302 million to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans during the quarter ended September 27, 2019. As a result, we currently do not anticipate making any contributions to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans and we anticipate making only minor contributions to our non-U.S. pension plans during the remainder of the Fiscal Transition Period. 


Common Stock Repurchases 

During the quarter ended September 27, 2019, we used $750 million to repurchase 3,582,500 shares of our common stock under our 2019 Repurchase Program (as defined below) at an average price per share of $209.40, including commissions of $.02 per share. During the quarter ended September 28, 2018, we used $200 million to repurchase 1,219,750 shares of our common stock under our prior repurchase program at an average price per share of $163.99, including commissions of $.02 per share. During the quarters ended September 27, 2019 and September 28, 2018, $83 million and $18 million, respectively, in shares of our common stock were delivered to us or withheld by us to satisfy withholding taxes on employee share-based awards. Shares purchased by us are canceled and retired. As of September 27, 2019, we had a remaining, unused authorization of approximately $3.2 billion under our 2019 Repurchase Program. 

On July 1, 2019, we announced that our Board of Directors approved a new $4 billion share repurchase authorization (“2019 Repurchase Program”). The 2019 Repurchase Program replaced our prior share repurchase program, which had a remaining unused authorization of approximately $501 million, as well as L3’s prior share repurchase program. Although the 2019 Repurchase Program does not have a stated expiration date, we announced that we expect to repurchase up to $2.5 billion in shares during the twelve months ended July 1, 2020, but we can give no assurance regarding the level and timing of share repurchases. At September 27, 2019, we had a remaining, unused authorization of approximately $3.2 billion under our 2019 Repurchase Program. Repurchases under the 2019 Repurchase Program may be made through open-market transactions, private transactions, transactions structured through investment banking institutions or any combination thereof. The level of our repurchases depends on a number of factors, including our financial condition, capital requirements, cash flows, results of operations, future business prospects and other factors our Board and management may deem relevant. The timing, volume and nature of repurchases are subject to market conditions, applicable securities laws and other factors and are at our discretion and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. Additional information regarding our 2019 Repurchase Program is set forth in this Report under Part II. Item 2. “Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.” 

Dividends

On June 29, 2019, our Board of Directors increased the quarterly cash dividend rate on our common stock from $.685 per share to $.75 per share, for an annualized cash dividend rate of $3.00 per share, which was our eighteenth consecutive annual increase in our quarterly cash dividend rate. The new dividend rate of $.75 per share is effective for dividends declared during the Fiscal Transition Period ending January 3, 2020 and we expect to assess our future dividend rate during the first quarter of calendar year 2020. Our annualized cash dividend rate for fiscal 2019 was $2.74 per share. Quarterly cash dividends are typically paid in March, June, September and December. We currently expect that cash dividends will continue to be paid in the near future, but we can give no assurances concerning payment of future dividends. The declaration of dividends and the amount thereof will depend on a number of factors, including our financial condition, capital requirements, cash flows, results of operations, future business prospects and other factors our Board of Directors may deem relevant. 


Capital Structure and Resources


We were in compliance with the covenants in the 2019 Credit Agreement at September 27, 2019, including the covenant requiring that we not permit our ratio of consolidated total indebtedness to total capital, each as defined in the 2019 Credit Agreement, to be greater than 0.65 to 1.00. At September 27, 2019, we had no borrowings outstanding under the 2019 Credit Agreement. 





Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements


•Any obligation under certain guarantee contracts;

•A retained or contingent interest in assets transferred to an unconsolidated entity or similar arrangement that serves as credit, liquidity or market risk support to that entity for such assets;

•Any obligation, including a contingent obligation, under certain derivative instruments; and


As of September 27, 2019, we were not participating in any material transactions that generated relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, including variable interest entities, and we did not have any material retained or contingent interest in assets as defined above. As of September 27, 2019, we did not have material financial guarantees or other contractual commitments that we believe are reasonably likely to adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, and we were not a party to any related party transactions that materially affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.


Due to our downsizing of certain operations pursuant to acquisitions, divestitures, restructuring plans or otherwise, certain properties leased by us have been sublet to third parties. In the event any of these third parties vacates any of these premises, we would be legally obligated under master lease arrangements. We believe that the financial risk of default by such sublessees is individually and in the aggregate not material to our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.


Commercial Commitments and Contractual Obligations 


CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES


Revenue Recognition


At the outset of each contract, we gauge its complexity and perceived risks and establish an estimated total cost at completion in line with these expectations. After establishing the estimated total cost at completion, we follow a standard Estimate at Completion (“EAC”) process in which we review the progress and performance on our ongoing contracts at least quarterly and, in many cases, more frequently. If we successfully retire risks associated with the technical, schedule and cost aspects of a contract, we may lower our estimated total cost at completion commensurate with the retirement of these risks. Conversely, if we are not successful in retiring these risks, we may increase our estimated total cost at completion. Additionally, as the contract progresses, our estimates of total transaction price may increase or decrease if, for example, we receive award fees that are higher or lower than expected. When adjustments in estimated total costs at completion or in estimated total transaction price are determined, the related impact on operating income is recognized using the cumulative catch-up method, which recognizes in the current period the cumulative effect of such adjustments for all prior periods. Any anticipated losses on these contracts are fully recognized in the period in which the losses become evident.




There were no individual impacts to operating income due to EAC adjustments in the quarters ended September 27, 2019 or September 28, 2018 that were material to our results of operations on a consolidated or segment basis for such periods.

We recognize revenue from numerous contracts with multiple performance obligations. For these contracts, we allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation based on the relative standalone selling price of the good or service underlying each performance obligation. The standalone selling price represents the amount for which we would sell the good or service to a customer on a standalone basis (i.e., not sold as bundled sale with any other products or services). The allocation of transaction price among separate performance obligations may impact the timing of revenue recognition but will not change the total revenue recognized on the contract. 

A substantial majority of our revenue is derived from contracts with the U.S. Government, including foreign military sales contracts. These contracts are subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulations and the prices of our contract deliverables are typically based on our estimated or actual costs plus a reasonable profit margin. As a result, the standalone selling prices of the goods and services in these contracts are typically equal to the selling prices stated in the contract, thereby eliminating the need to allocate (or reallocate) the transaction price to the multiple performance obligations. In our non-U.S. Government contracts, when standalone selling prices are not directly observable, we also generally use the expected cost plus a margin approach to determine standalone selling price. In determining the appropriate margin under the cost plus margin approach, we consider historical margins on similar products sold to similar customers or within similar geographies where objective evidence is available. We may also consider our cost structure and profit objectives, the nature of the proposal, the effects of customization of pricing, our practices used to establish pricing of bundled products, the expected technological life of the product, margins earned on similar contracts with different customers and other factors to determine the appropriate margin. 

Postretirement Benefit Plans

As part of our accounting for the L3Harris Merger, we completed a valuation and re-measurement of all L3 pension and other postretirement benefit (“OPEB”) plans as of the Closing Date and we recorded a $233 million increase to L3’s pension and OPEB liability as of June 29, 2019 based on the results of this valuation. The total L3 pension and OPEB liability assumed by L3Harris was $1.4 billion at the Closing Date. The discount rate assumption used was a yield curve rather than a single interest rate. For the pension plans, the average June 29, 2019 discount rate used was 3.54 percent for U.S. plans and 2.95 percent for Canadian plans. For OPEB plans, the average June 29, 2019 discount rate used was 3.31 percent for U.S. plans and 2.92 percent for Canadian plans. The long‐term expected rate of return on plan assets for the Fiscal Transition Period is 7.75 percent for the majority of our postretirement benefit plans.

Accounting for Business Combinations

We follow the acquisition method of accounting to record identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed and noncontrolling interests in the acquiree recognized in connection with acquired businesses at their estimated fair value as of the date of acquisition. 


We assess the recoverability of finite-lived intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. We evaluate the recoverability of such assets based on the expectations of undiscounted cash flows of the assets. If the sum of expected future undiscounted cash flows were less than the carrying amount of the asset, a loss would be recognized for the difference between the fair value and the carrying amount. See Note B — Business Combination and Note K — Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets for additional information. 


Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Standards

Accounting standards that have been recently issued, but are not yet effective for us, are described in Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards in the Notes, which describes the potential impact that these standards are expected to have on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS

This Report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, as well as assumptions that may not materialize or prove to be correct, which could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, statements concerning: our plans, strategies and objectives for future operations; new products, systems, technologies, services or developments; future economic conditions, performance or outlook; future political conditions; the outcome of contingencies; the potential level of share repurchases, dividends or pension contributions; potential acquisitions or divestitures; the value of contract awards and programs; expected cash flows or capital expenditures; our beliefs or expectations; activities, events or developments that we intend, expect, project, believe or anticipate will or may occur in the future; and assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Forward-looking statements may be identified by their use of forward-looking terminology, such as “believes,” “expects,” “may,” “should,” “would,” “will,” “intends,” “plans,” “estimates,” “anticipates,” “projects” and similar words or expressions. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect our management’s opinions only as of the date of filing of this Report and are not guarantees of future performance or actual results. Forward-looking statements are made in reliance on the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). The following are some of the factors we believe could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical results or our current expectations or projections:

•We depend on U.S. Government customers for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of these relationships, a reduction in U.S. Government funding or a change in U.S. Government spending priorities could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

•We depend significantly on U.S. Government contracts, which often are only partially funded, subject to immediate termination, and heavily regulated and audited. The termination or failure to fund, or negative audit findings for, one or more of these contracts could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

•The U.S. Government’s budget deficit and the national debt, as well as any inability of the U.S. Government to complete its budget process for any government fiscal year and consequently having to shut down or operate on funding levels equivalent to its prior fiscal year pursuant to a “continuing resolution” could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

•We could be negatively impacted by a security breach, through cyber attack, cyber intrusion, insider threats or otherwise, or other significant disruption of our IT networks and related systems or of those we operate for certain of our customers.

•Our ability to successfully manage ongoing business and organizational changes could impact our business results.

•Our results of operations and cash flows are substantially affected by our mix of fixed-price, cost-plus and time-and-material type contracts. In particular, our fixed-price contracts could subject us to losses in the event of cost overruns or a significant increase in inflation.

•We use estimates in accounting for many of our programs, and changes in our estimates could adversely affect our future financial results. 

•We derive a significant portion of our revenue from international operations and are subject to the risks of doing business internationally, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates.

•The level of returns on defined benefit plan assets, changes in interest rates and other factors could affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future periods.

•We may not be successful in obtaining the necessary export licenses to conduct certain operations abroad, and Congress and the Executive Branch may prevent proposed sales to certain foreign governments.

•Disputes with our subcontractors or the inability of our subcontractors to perform, or our key suppliers to timely deliver our components, parts or services, could cause our products, systems or services to be produced or delivered in an untimely or unsatisfactory manner.

•Our reputation and ability to do business may be impacted by the improper conduct of our employees, agents or business partners.

•Our future success will depend on our ability to develop new products, systems, services and technologies that achieve market acceptance in our current and future markets.


•We participate in markets that are often subject to uncertain economic conditions, which makes it difficult to estimate growth in our markets and, as a result, future income and expenditures.

•We cannot predict the consequences of future geo-political events, but they may adversely affect the markets in which we operate, our ability to insure against risks, our operations or our profitability.

•Strategic transactions, including mergers, acquisitions and divestitures, involve significant risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

•The outcome of litigation or arbitration in which we are involved from time to time is unpredictable, and an adverse decision in any such matter could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

•We are subject to government investigations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and future prospects.

•Third parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future that we are infringing directly or indirectly upon their intellectual property rights, and third parties may infringe upon our intellectual property rights.

•Our commercial aviation products, systems and services business (a portion of L3’s business prior to the L3Harris Merger) is affected by global demand and economic factors that could negatively impact our financial results.

•We face certain significant risk exposures and potential liabilities that may not be covered adequately by insurance or indemnity.

•Changes in our effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on our results of operations.

•Our level of indebtedness and our ability to make payments on or service our indebtedness and our unfunded defined benefit plans liability may adversely affect our financial and operating activities or our ability to incur additional debt.

•A downgrade in our credit ratings could materially adversely affect our business.

•Unforeseen environmental issues could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

•We have significant operations in locations that could be materially and adversely impacted in the event of a natural disaster or other significant disruption.


•We must attract and retain key employees, and any failure to do so could seriously harm us.

•Some of our workforce is represented by labor unions, so our business could be harmed in the event of a prolonged work stoppage.

•We may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the L3Harris Merger or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected. We may also encounter significant difficulties in integrating the businesses.

•Certain business uncertainties arising from the L3Harris Merger could adversely affect our businesses and operations.

•We have incurred and will incur direct and indirect costs as a result of the L3Harris Merger.

Additional details and discussions concerning some of the factors that could affect our forward-looking statements or future results are set forth in our Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K under Item 1A. “Risk Factors” and in Part II. Item 1A. “Risk Factors” in this Report. The foregoing list of factors and the factors set forth in Item 1A. “Risk Factors” included in our Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K and in Part II. Item 1A. “Risk Factors” in this Report are not exhaustive. Additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or that we currently believe not to be material also may adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Should any risks or uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The forward-looking statements contained in this Report are made as of the date of filing of this Report, and we disclaim any intention or obligation, other than imposed by law, to update or revise any forward-looking statements or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or developments or otherwise. 

Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.

In the normal course of business, we are exposed to risks associated with foreign currency exchange rates and changes in interest rates. We employ established policies and procedures governing the use of financial instruments to manage our exposure to such risks. There were no material changes during the quarter ended September 27, 2019 with respect to the information appearing in Part II, Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” of our Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K.




At September 27, 2019, we also had long-term variable-rate debt obligations of $250 million, comprised of $250 million of Floating Rate Notes due April 30, 2020. These debt obligations bear interest that is variable based on certain short-term indices, thus exposing us to interest-rate risk; however, a 10 percent change in interest rates for these debt obligations at September 27, 2019 would not have had a material impact on our results of operations or cash flows. See Note M — Debt in the Notes for further information.

We utilize derivative instruments, from time to time, to mitigate interest rate risk associated with anticipated debt transactions. If the derivative instrument is designated as a cash flow hedge, gains and losses from changes in the fair value of such instrument are deferred and included as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income and reclassified to interest expense in the period in which the hedged transaction affects earnings.

At September 27, 2019, we had three outstanding treasury lock agreements, with a notional amount of $1.05 billion, to hedge our exposure to fluctuations in the benchmark interest rate (10-year U.S. Treasury rate) associated with our anticipated issuance of long-term fixed-rate notes to redeem or repay at maturity the entire $400 million outstanding principal amount of our 2.7% Notes due April 27, 2020 and the entire $650 million outstanding principal amount of the 4.95% Notes due February 15, 2021. We designated these treasury locks as cash flow hedges against fluctuations in interest payments on the Notes due to changes in the benchmark interest rate prior to issuance, which we expect to occur before the date of maturity of the 2020 Notes and 2021 Notes. An unrealized after-tax loss of $54 million associated with these treasury locks was deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income at September 27, 2019. A 10 percent change in the 10-year U.S. Treasury rate at September 27, 2019 would not have had a material impact on the fair value of these treasury lock agreements or our results of operations or cash flows. See Note U — Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities in the Notes for additional information.


Item 4. Controls and Procedures.



procedures into the acquired business as part of our integration activities. We are continuing the multi-year, phased

implementation targeted for completion in 2020 of a new core enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system in certain

business units, which we expect to reduce the number of ERP systems across the Company and enhance our system of internal

control over financial reporting. We expect the initial implementation of the new core ERP system in each affected business unit

to involve changes to related processes that are part of our system of internal control over financial reporting and to require

testing for effectiveness and potential further changes as implementation progresses. During fiscal 2018 and 2019, we successfully completed the initial implementation of the new core ERP system in four business units. As part of our integration with L3, we are in the process of incorporating our controls and procedures with respect to L3’s operations, and we will include internal controls with respect to L3’s operations in our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of 2020. Other than the system and related process changes described above as well as changes related to incorporating our controls and procedures with respect to L3’s operations, there have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended September 27, 2019 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.


PART II. OTHER INFORMATION

Item 1. Legal Proceedings.

General. From time to time, as a normal incident of the nature and kind of businesses in which we are or were engaged,

various claims or charges are asserted and litigation or arbitration is commenced by or against us arising from or related to


property; labor and employee disputes; commercial or contractual disputes; strategic acquisitions or divestitures; the prior sale

or use of former products allegedly containing asbestos or other restricted materials; breach of warranty; or environmental

matters. Claimed amounts against us may be substantial, but may not bear any reasonable relationship to the merits of the claim

or the extent of any real risk of court or arbitral awards. We record accruals for losses related to those matters against us that we

consider to be probable and that can be reasonably estimated. Gain contingencies, if any, are recognized when they are realized

and legal costs generally are expensed when incurred. At September 27, 2019, our accrual for the potential resolution of lawsuits, claims or proceedings that we consider probable of being decided unfavorably to us was not material. Although it is not feasible to predict the outcome of these matters with certainty, it is reasonably possible that some lawsuits, claims or proceedings may be disposed of or decided unfavorably to us and in excess of the amounts currently accrued. Based on available information, in the opinion of management, settlements, arbitration awards and final judgments, if any, that are considered probable of being rendered against us in litigation or arbitration in existence at September 27, 2019 are reserved against or would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

Tax Audits. Our tax filings are subject to audit by taxing authorities in jurisdictions where we conduct or conducted business. These audits may result in assessments of additional taxes that are subsequently resolved with the authorities or ultimately through legal proceedings. We believe we have adequately accrued for any ultimate amounts that are likely to result from these audits; however, final assessments, if any, could be different from the amounts recorded in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).

Item 1A. Risk Factors.

Investors should carefully review and consider the information regarding certain factors that could materially affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows as set forth in Part I, Item 1A. “Risk Factors” of our Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K. We do not believe that there have been any material changes to the risk factors previously disclosed in our Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K. We may disclose changes to such risk factors or disclose additional risk factors from time to time in our future filings with the SEC. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe not to be material also may adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.

New Share Repurchase Program

On July 1, 2019, we announced that our Board of Directors approved a new $4 billion share repurchase authorization (“2019 Repurchase Program”), replacing our prior share repurchase program. Repurchases under the new program may be made through open-market transactions, private transactions, transactions structured through investment banking institutions or any combination thereof. The level of our repurchases depends on a number of factors, including our financial condition, capital requirements, cash flows, results of operations, future business prospects and other factors our Board and management may deem relevant. The timing, volume and nature of repurchases are subject to market conditions, applicable securities laws and other factors and are at our discretion and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. 

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

During the quarter ended September 27, 2019, we repurchased 3.6 million shares of our common stock under our 2019 Repurchase Program. The level of our repurchases depends on a number of factors, including our financial condition, capital requirements, cash flows, results of operations, future business prospects and other factors our Board of Directors may deem relevant. The timing, volume and nature of repurchases are subject to market conditions, applicable securities laws and other factors and are at our discretion and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. Shares repurchased by us are canceled and retired. The following table sets forth information with respect to repurchases by us of our common stock during the quarter ended September 27, 2019. 





Sales of Unregistered Equity Securities

During the quarter ended September 27, 2019, we did not issue or sell any unregistered equity securities.

Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities.

Not Applicable.

Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures.

Not Applicable.

Item 5. Other Information.

Not Applicable.


Item 6. Exhibits.

EXHIBIT INDEX






SIGNATURE

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


