

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION




þQUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the quarterly period ended March 29, 2019

or

oTRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934



HARRIS CORPORATION




Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (l) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. þ Yes p No

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files). þ Yes p No

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.


If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. p

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). p Yes þ No

The number of shares outstanding of the registrant’s common stock as of April 26, 2019 was 118,125,597 shares. 

HARRIS CORPORATION


For the Quarter Ended March 29, 2019 

INDEX


This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains trademarks, service marks and registered marks of Harris Corporation and its subsidiaries.

PART I. FINANCIAL INFORMATION

Item 1. Financial Statements.

HARRIS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME



See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).


HARRIS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME



See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).


HARRIS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET



See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).


HARRIS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS



See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).


HARRIS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EQUITY




NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)

Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards 

Basis of Presentation


Amounts contained in this Report may not always add to totals due to rounding.

Reclassifications

The classification of certain prior-period amounts has been adjusted in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) to conform with current-period classifications. Reclassifications include certain direct selling and bid and proposal costs from the “Cost of product sales and services” line item to the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) and in these Notes. 

Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and these Notes and related disclosures. These estimates and assumptions are based on experience and other information available prior to issuance of the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and these Notes. Materially different results can occur as circumstances change and additional information becomes known.

Adoption of New Accounting Standards

As discussed above, we adopted ASC 606 effective June 30, 2018. This standard supersedes nearly all revenue recognition guidance under GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards and supersedes some cost guidance for construction-type and production-type contracts. The guidance in this standard is principles-based, and, consequently, entities are required to use more judgment and make more estimates than under prior guidance, including identifying contract performance obligations, estimating variable consideration to include in the contract price and allocating the transaction price to separate performance obligations. The core principle of this standard is that entities should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods and services. To help financial statement users better understand the nature, amount, 


timing and potential uncertainty of the revenue and cash flows, this standard requires significantly more interim and annual disclosures. 

We adopted the requirements of the new standard using the full retrospective transition method. We opted for this transition method because we believe it provides enhanced comparability and transparency across periods. We elected to apply the practical expedient related to backlog disclosures for prior reporting periods and the practical expedient related to evaluating the effects of contract modifications that occurred prior to the earliest period presented. No other transition practical expedients were applied. Retrospective application of this standard resulted in the recognition of a cumulative-effect adjustment of $15 million to reduce the opening balance of retained earnings at July 2, 2016. 












Accounting Standards Issued But Not Yet Effective

In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued a new lease standard that supersedes existing lease guidance under GAAP. This standard requires, among other things, the recognition of right-of-use assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for most lease arrangements and disclosure of certain information about leasing arrangements. The new standard currently allows two transition methods with certain practical expedients available. Companies may elect to use the modified retrospective approach for leases that exist or are entered into after the beginning of the earliest comparative period in the financial statements or to initially apply this standard at the adoption date and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the period of adoption. This standard is effective for fiscal years, and interim reporting periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018, which for us is our fiscal 2020. 

We expect to adopt the new lease standard on June 29, 2019 by applying the standard at the adoption date and recognizing a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings. We also intend to elect the package of practical expedients permitted by the standard, which, among other things, allows us to carry forward the historical lease classification. The majority of our current lease arrangements are classified as operating leases under existing GAAP lease guidance, and we expect they will continue to be classified as operating leases under the new standard. We have made progress in executing our implementation plan, including identifying our lease population. We are in the process of implementing a new lease management software tool as well as new processes and controls. Once we have configured the new lease management tool and have accumulated compatible lease data, we expect to measure the right-of-use assets and liabilities for leases in effect at the adoption date, which could be material. We do not expect that the adoption of this standard will have a material impact on our results of operations or cash flows.


Note B — Stock Options and Other Share-Based Compensation 

During the three quarters ended March 29, 2019, we had options or other share-based compensation outstanding under two shareholder-approved employee stock incentive plans (“SIPs”), the Harris Corporation 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (As Amended and Restated Effective August 27, 2010) and the Harris Corporation 2015 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2015 EIP”). Grants of share-based awards after October 23, 2015 were made under our 2015 EIP. We believe that share-based awards more closely align the interests of participants with those of shareholders. Certain share-based awards provide for accelerated vesting if there is a change in control (as defined under our SIPs). The compensation cost related to our share-based awards that was charged against income was $14 million and $43 million for the quarter and three quarters ended March 29, 2019, respectively, and $13 million and $37 million for the quarter and three quarters ended March 30, 2018, respectively.


Note C — Restructuring and Other Exit Costs 

We record charges for restructuring and other exit activities related to sales or terminations of product lines, closures or relocations of business activities, changes in management structure and fundamental reorganizations that affect the nature and focus of operations. Such charges include termination benefits, contract termination costs and costs to consolidate facilities or relocate employees. We record these charges at their fair value when incurred. In cases where employees are required to render service until they are terminated in order to receive the termination benefits and will be retained beyond the minimum retention period, we record the expense ratably over the future service period. These charges are included as a component of the “Cost of product sales and services” and “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line items in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited). 

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, we recorded a $5 million charge for consolidation of certain Exelis Inc. (collectively with its subsidiaries, “Exelis”) facilities initiated in fiscal 2017. This charge is included as a component of the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Consolidated Statement of Income in our Fiscal 2017-2018 Update 8-K. We had liabilities of $16 million and $27 million at March 29, 2019 and June 29, 2018, respectively, associated with this integration activity and with previous restructuring actions. The majority of the remaining liabilities at March 29, 2019 represent lease obligations associated with exited facilities with remaining terms of five years or less. 

Note D — Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss 





Accounting Pronouncements” in our Fiscal 2017-2018 Update 8-K for additional information regarding this accounting standards update.

Note E — Receivables 



We have a receivables sale agreement (“RSA”) with a third-party financial institution that permits us to sell, on a non-recourse basis, up to $50 million of outstanding receivables at any given time. From time to time, we have sold certain customer receivables under the RSA, which we continue to service and collect on behalf of the third-party financial institution. Receivables sold pursuant to the RSA meet the requirements for sales accounting under ASC 860, Transfers and Servicing, and, accordingly, are derecognized from our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited) at the time of sale. Outstanding accounts receivable sold pursuant to the RSA were not material at March 29, 2019 and June 29, 2018. Impairment losses related to receivables from contracts with customers were not material during the quarter or three quarters ended March 29, 2019 or the quarter or three quarters ended March 30, 2018.

Note F — Contract Assets and Contract Liabilities 

 Contract assets include unbilled amounts typically resulting from revenue recognized exceeding amounts billed to customers for contracts utilizing the percentage of completion (“POC”) cost-to-cost revenue recognition method. We bill customers as work progresses in accordance with agreed-upon contractual terms, either at periodic intervals, upon achievement of contractual milestones or upon deliveries and, in certain arrangements, the customer may withhold payment of a small portion of the contract price until contract completion. Contract liabilities include advance payments and billings in excess of revenue recognized, including deferred revenue associated with extended product warranties. Contract assets and liabilities are reported on a contract-by-contract basis at the end of each reporting period. The increase in contract liabilities in the three quarters ended March 29, 2019 was primarily due to an increase in the receipt of advance payments and the timing of contractual billing milestones. Changes in contract assets and contract liabilities balances during the quarter and three quarters ended March 29, 2019 were not materially impacted by any factors other than those described above.







Impairment losses related to our contract assets were not material during the quarter or three quarters ended March 29, 2019 or the quarter or three quarters ended March 30, 2018. For the quarter and three quarters ended March 29, 2019, we recognized revenue of $52 million and $259 million, respectively, related to contract liabilities that were outstanding at June 29, 2018. For the quarter and three quarters ended March 30, 2018, we recognized revenue of $24 million and $187 million, respectively, related to contract liabilities that were outstanding at June 30, 2017.


Note G — Inventories 



Note H — Property, Plant and Equipment 



Depreciation and amortization expense related to property, plant and equipment was $34 million and $102 million for the quarter and three quarters ended March 29, 2019, respectively, and $33 million and $106 million for the quarter and three quarters ended March 30, 2018, respectively. 

Note I — Accrued Warranties 



We also sell extended product warranties and recognize revenue from these arrangements over the warranty period. Costs of warranty services under these arrangements are recognized as incurred and are included as a component of the “Contract liabilities” and “Other long-term liabilities” line items in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited). Deferred revenue associated with extended product warranties was $24 million at March 29, 2019 and $16 million at June 29, 2018.


Note J — Postretirement Benefit Plans 




The service cost component of net periodic benefit income is included in the “Cost of product sales and services” and “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line items in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited). The non-service cost components of net periodic pension income are included in the “Non-operating income” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited). 

We contributed $301 million to our qualified defined benefit pensions plans during the quarter and three quarters ended March 30, 2018, including a $300 million voluntary contribution to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans in the quarter ended March 30, 2018. As a result of this voluntary contribution as well as a $400 million voluntary contribution made during fiscal 2017, we made no contributions to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans during the quarter and three quarters ended March 29, 2019, and we currently anticipate making no contributions to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans and minor contributions to a non-U.S. pension plan during the remainder of fiscal 2019. 

The U.S. Salaried Retirement Plan (“U.S. SRP”), a U.S. qualified pension plan, is our largest defined benefit pension plan, with assets valued at $4.6 billion and a projected benefit obligation of $5.2 billion as of June 29, 2018. Effective December 31, 2016, accruals under the U.S. SRP benefit formula were frozen for all employees and replaced with a 1% cash balance benefit formula for certain employees who were not highly compensated on December 31, 2016.


Note K — Income From Continuing Operations Per Share 



Potential dilutive common shares primarily consist of employee stock options and restricted and performance unit awards. Income from continuing operations per diluted common share excludes the antidilutive impact of 265,652 and 275,021 weighted average share-based awards outstanding for the quarter and three quarters ended March 29, 2019, respectively, and 30,670 and 64,554 weighted average share-based awards outstanding for the quarter and three quarters ended March 30, 2018, respectively. 

Note L — Income Taxes  

On December 22, 2017, H.R.1, also known as the “Tax Cuts and Jobs Act,” was signed into U.S. law (“Tax Act”). Among other provisions, the Tax Act reduced the U.S. statutory corporate income tax rate from a maximum 35 percent to a flat 21 percent, effective January 1, 2018. During the quarter ended December 28, 2018, we completed our accounting for the income tax impact of enactment of the Tax Act, based on prevailing regulations and available information as of December 28, 2018, and there were no material changes from the estimates reported in our Fiscal 2017-2018 Update 8-K. We will continue to monitor additional guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service.

Effective Tax Rate

Our effective tax rate (income taxes as a percentage of income from continuing operations before income taxes) was 14.1 percent in the quarter ended March 29, 2019 compared with 4.8 percent in the quarter ended March 30, 2018. In the quarter ended March 29, 2019, our effective tax rate benefited from the favorable impact of excess tax benefits related to equity-based compensation and from favorable adjustments recorded upon the filing of our Federal tax returns. In the quarter ended March 30, 2018, our effective tax rate benefited from a $33 million ($.27 per diluted share) adjustment to the provisional amount recorded in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 to revalue our net deferred tax balances as a result of the Tax Act. Additionally, our effective tax rate for the quarter ended March 30, 2018 benefited from the favorable impact of excess tax benefits related to equity-based compensation.



Note M — Fair Value Measurements 


•Level 1 — Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.

•Level 2 — Observable inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1, including quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active; and inputs other than quoted prices that are observable or are derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data by correlation or other means.

•Level 3 — Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity, are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities, and reflect our own assumptions about the assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability developed using the best information available in the circumstances.

In certain instances, fair value is estimated using quoted market prices obtained from external pricing services. In obtaining such data from the external pricing services, we have evaluated the methodologies used to develop the estimate of fair value in order to assess whether such valuations are representative of fair value, including net asset value (“NAV”). Additionally, in certain circumstances, the NAV reported by an asset manager may be adjusted when sufficient evidence indicates NAV is not representative of fair value.












Note N — Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities 

In the normal course of business, we are exposed to global market risks, including the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Additionally, during January 2019, we entered into a yield-based treasury lock agreement with a third-party financial institution counterparty (“treasury lock”) to hedge against fluctuations in interest payments due to changes in the benchmark interest rate (10-year U.S. Treasury rate) associated with our anticipated issuance of long-term fixed-rate notes (“New Notes”) to redeem or repay at maturity the entire $400 million outstanding principal amount of our 2.7% Notes due April 27, 2020 (“2020 Notes”). We use derivative instruments to manage our exposure to such risks and formally document all relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as the risk-management objective and strategy for undertaking hedge transactions. We also may enter into derivative instruments that are not designated as hedges and do not qualify for hedge accounting. We recognize all derivatives in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited) at fair value. We do not hold or issue derivatives for speculative trading purposes.

At March 29, 2019, we had open foreign currency forward contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $9 million, of which $5 million were classified as cash flow hedges and $4 million was classified as a fair value hedge. This compares with open foreign currency forward contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $39 million at June 29, 2018, of which $35 million were classified as cash flow hedges and $4 million was classified as a fair value hedge. At March 29, 2019, contract expiration dates ranged from 17 days to approximately 3 months with a weighted average contract life of 2 months. 

At March 29, 2019, we also had an open treasury lock agreement with a notional amount of $400 million that was classified as a cash flow hedge.

Exchange-Rate Risk — Fair Value Hedges

We use foreign currency forward contracts and options to hedge certain balance sheet items, including foreign currency denominated accounts receivable and inventory. Changes in the value of the derivatives and the related hedged items are reflected in earnings, in the “Cost of product sales and services” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited). At March 29, 2019, we had an outstanding foreign currency forward contract denominated in the Canadian Dollar to hedge a certain balance sheet item. The net gains or losses on foreign currency forward contracts designated as fair value hedges were not material in the quarter or three quarters ended March 29, 2019 or in the quarter or three quarters ended March 30, 2018. In addition, no amounts were recognized in earnings in the quarter or three quarters ended March 29, 2019 or in the quarter or three quarters ended March 30, 2018 related to hedged firm commitments that no longer qualify as fair value hedges. 

Exchange-Rate Risk — Cash Flow Hedges

We use foreign currency forward contracts and options to hedge off-balance sheet future foreign currency commitments and also have hedged U.S. Dollar payments to suppliers to maintain our anticipated profit margins in our international operations. At March 29, 2019, we had outstanding foreign currency forward contracts denominated in British Pounds and the Australian Dollar to hedge certain forecasted transactions. The net gains or losses from cash flow hedges recognized in earnings or recorded in other comprehensive income, including gains or losses related to hedge ineffectiveness, were not material in the quarter or three quarters ended March 29, 2019 or in the quarter or three quarters ended March 30, 2018. 

Interest-Rate Risk — Cash Flow Hedges 

As noted above, in anticipation of the issuance of the New Notes to redeem or repay at maturity the 2020 Notes, we entered into a treasury lock with a notional value of $400 million. We designated the treasury lock as a cash flow hedge against fluctuations in interest payments on the New Notes due to changes in the benchmark interest rate prior to issuance, which we expect to occur between August 2019 and April 2020. If the benchmark interest rate increases during the period of the agreement, the treasury lock position will become an asset and we will receive a cash payment from the counterparty when we terminate the treasury lock upon issuance of the New Notes. Conversely, if the benchmark interest rate decreases, the treasury lock position will become a liability and we will make a cash payment to the counterparty when we terminate the treasury lock 


upon issuance of the New Notes. The fair value of the treasury lock is measured using a pricing model that utilizes observable market data such as the benchmark interest rate. See Note M — Fair Value Measurements in these Notes for additional information.

At March 29, 2019, the fair value of the treasury lock was a liability of $11 million, which we recorded in the “Other accrued items” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited) with a corresponding unrealized after-tax loss of $8 million in the “Accumulated other comprehensive loss” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited) representing the effective portion of the treasury lock’s change in fair value during the quarter ended March 29, 2019. The ineffective portion of the treasury lock’s change in fair value was immaterial during the quarter ended March 29, 2019. 

Note O — Changes in Estimates 

Contract Estimates 

 Under the POC cost-to-cost method of revenue recognition, a single estimated profit margin is used to recognize profit for each performance obligation over its period of performance. Recognition of profit on a contract requires estimates of the total cost at completion and transaction price and the measurement of progress towards completion. Due to the long-term nature of many of our contracts, developing the estimated total cost at completion and total transaction price often requires judgment. Factors that must be considered in estimating the cost of the work to be completed include the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, subcontractor performance and the risk and impact of delayed performance. Factors that must be considered in estimating the total transaction price include contractual cost or performance incentives (such as incentive fees, award fees and penalties) and other forms of variable consideration as well as our historical experience and expectation for performance on the contract. At the outset of each contract, we gauge its complexity and perceived risks and establish an estimated total cost at completion in line with these expectations. After establishing the estimated total cost at completion, we follow a standard Estimate at Completion (“EAC”) process in which we review the progress and performance on our ongoing contracts at least quarterly and, in many cases, more frequently. If we successfully retire risks associated with the technical, schedule and cost aspects of a contract, we may lower our estimated total cost at completion commensurate with the retirement of these risks. Conversely, if we are not successful in retiring these risks, we may increase our estimated total cost at completion. Additionally, as the contract progresses, our estimates of total transaction price may increase or decrease if, for example, we receive award fees that are higher or lower than expected. When adjustments in estimated total costs at completion or in estimated total transaction price are determined, the related impact on operating income is recognized using the cumulative catch-up method, which recognizes in the current period the cumulative effect of such adjustments for all prior periods. Any anticipated losses on these contracts are fully recognized in the period in which the losses become evident.

Net EAC adjustments resulting from changes in estimates impacted our operating income favorably by $6 million ($4 million after-tax or $.03 per diluted share) and $5 million ($4 million after-tax or $.03 per diluted share) for the quarter and three quarters ended March 29, 2019, respectively, and unfavorably by $4 million ($3 million after-tax or $.02 per diluted share) and $15 million ($11 million after-tax or $.09 per diluted share) for the quarter and three quarters ended March 30, 2018, respectively. Revenue recognized from performance obligations satisfied in prior periods was $18 million and $34 million for the quarter and three quarters ended March 29, 2019, respectively, and $5 million and $35 million for the quarter and three quarters ended March 30, 2018, respectively. 

Income Taxes

 See Note L — Income Taxes in these Notes for changes in estimates disclosures associated with our accounting for income taxes.

Note P — Backlog

Backlog, which is the equivalent of our remaining performance obligations, represents the future revenue we expect to recognize as we perform on our current contracts. Backlog comprises both funded backlog (i.e., firm orders for which funding is authorized and appropriated) and unfunded backlog. Backlog excludes unexercised contract options and potential orders under ordering-type contracts, such as indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity contracts. 

At March 29, 2019, our ending backlog was $8.5 billion. We expect to recognize approximately half of the revenue associated with this backlog within the next twelve months and the substantial majority of the revenue associated with this backlog within the next 3 years. 

Note Q — Business Segment Information 



•Communication Systems, serving markets in tactical communications and defense products, including tactical ground and airborne radio communications solutions and night vision technology, and in public safety networks; 

•Electronic Systems, providing electronic warfare, avionics, and command, control, communications, computers, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (“C4ISR”) solutions for defense and classified customers and mission-critical communication systems for civil and military aviation and other customers; and 

•Space and Intelligence Systems, providing intelligence, space protection, geospatial, complete Earth observation, universe exploration, positioning, navigation and timing (“PNT”), and environmental solutions for national security, defense, civil and commercial customers, using advanced sensors, antennas and payloads, as well as ground processing and information analytics. 


We evaluate each segment’s performance based on segment operating income or loss, which we define as profit or loss from operations before income taxes, including pension income and excluding interest income and expense, royalties and related intellectual property expenses, equity method investment income or loss and gains or losses from securities and other investments. Intersegment sales are generally transferred at cost to the buying segment, and the sourcing segment recognizes a profit that is eliminated. The “Corporate eliminations” line item in the table below represents the elimination of intersegment sales. The “Unallocated corporate expense and corporate eliminations” line item in the table below represents the portion of corporate expenses not allocated to our business segments and the elimination of intersegment profits. The “Pension adjustment” line item in the table below represents the reconciliation of the non-service components of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit costs, which are a component of segment operating income but are included in the “Non-operating income” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) as a result of our adoption of ASU 2017-07 as discussed in Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards in these Notes. The non-service components of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit costs include interest cost, expected return on plan assets and amortization of net actuarial gain. 





Disaggregation of Revenue
















Note R — Legal Proceedings and Contingencies 


Merger Litigation 

In connection with our pending merger with L3 (see Note S — Pending Merger in these Notes for additional information), two putative class action lawsuits and one individual lawsuit were filed against L3 and its directors (together, the “L3 Parties”) in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York between December 19, 2018 and January 15, 2019, and a third putative class action lawsuit, Kent v. L3 Technologies, Inc., et al., was filed against the L3 Parties and Harris Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiary, Leopard Merger Sub Inc. (Harris Corporation and Leopard Merger Sub Inc., the “Harris Parties”), in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware on January 4, 2019. The complaints in the lawsuits contained substantially similar allegations contending, among other things, that the registration statement on Form S-4 in support of the pending merger misstated or failed to disclose certain allegedly material information in violation of federal securities laws. The complaint in the Kent lawsuit further alleged that the Harris Parties were liable for these violations as “controlling persons” of L3 within the meaning of federal securities laws. On March 12, 2019, the parties to the actions entered into an agreement to settle all claims that were or could have been alleged in the action subject to, among other things, the supplementation by L3 of certain disclosures contained in the registration statement, which were reflected in a Current Report on Form 8-K filed by L3 with the SEC on March 13, 2019, and the dismissal of the four lawsuits, all of which were dismissed by March 18, 2019. 

Environmental Matters 




Note S — Pending Merger 

On October 14, 2018, we announced that on October 12, 2018, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”), with L3 and Leopard Merger Sub Inc., our wholly owned subsidiary (“Merger Sub”), pursuant to which we and L3 have agreed to combine in an all-stock merger of equals. Under the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement, L3 shareholders will receive a fixed exchange ratio of 1.30 shares of Harris common stock for each share of L3 common stock. Upon closing of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, Harris Corporation will be re-named “L3 Harris Technologies, Inc.” and Merger Sub will merge with and into L3, with L3 being the surviving corporation and becoming a wholly-owned subsidiary of L3 Harris Technologies, Inc. (“L3 Harris”), which will be owned on a fully diluted basis approximately 54 percent by Harris shareholders and 46 percent by L3 shareholders. Upon closing, the merger will be accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting, and Harris will be treated as the accounting acquirer. The Merger Agreement has been unanimously approved by the Board of Directors of each company. 

The consummation of the merger is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain conditions, including, among others, the expiration or earlier termination of any applicable waiting period and the receipt of approvals under domestic and certain foreign antitrust and competition laws, including the expiration of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended (the “HSR Act”). In connection with the proposed merger, we and L3 each filed a Notification and Report Form under the HSR Act (an “HSR Notification”) with the U.S. Federal Trade Commission and the DOJ on November 9, 2018. We voluntarily withdrew our HSR Notification effective as of December 10, 2018 and re-filed our HSR Notification on December 11, 2018. As part of the DOJ’s review of the merger, we and L3 each received on January 10, 2019 a request for additional information and documentary materials (the “Second Request”) from the DOJ, which extends the waiting period under the HSR Act until 30 days after both we and L3 have complied with the Second Request or such later time as the parties may agree with the DOJ, unless the waiting period is terminated earlier. We and L3 continue to work cooperatively with the DOJ on its review of the merger. We and L3 continue to expect the merger to close in the previously announced time frame of mid-calendar year 2019, although we can give no assurances regarding the timing or occurrence of closing. 

See Note T — Subsequent Events in these Notes for subsequent events disclosures associated with the merger.

L3 is a prime contractor in intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (“ISR”) systems, aircraft sustainment (including modifications and fleet management of special mission aircraft), simulation and training, night vision and image intensification equipment and security and detection systems headquartered in New York, New York. L3 is also a provider of a broad range of communication, electronic and sensor systems used on military, homeland security and commercial platforms. L3 employs approximately 31,000 employees and its customers include the U.S. Department of Defense and its prime contractors, U.S. government intelligence agencies, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, foreign governments and domestic and commercial customers. L3 generated calendar 2018 revenue of approximately $10 billion. 

The foregoing description of the Merger Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby is not complete and is subject to, and qualified in its entirety by reference to, the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of October 12, 2018, by and among L3, us, and Merger Sub, a copy of which was filed as an exhibit to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on October 16, 2018.


Note T — Subsequent Events 


Also on April 4, 2019, we entered into a definitive agreement under which we will sell our Night Vision business to Elbit Systems of America, LLC, a subsidiary of Elbit Systems Ltd., for $350 million in cash, subject to customary purchase price adjustments as set forth in the definitive agreement. The sale transaction is conditioned on completion of our pending merger with L3 pursuant to the Merger Agreement, as well as customary closing conditions, including receipt of regulatory approvals. We expect to use the proceeds from the sale of our Night Vision business to pre-fund L3 Harris pension plans and return cash to shareholders. Our Night Vision business is a global supplier of high-performance, vision-enhancing products for U.S. and allied military and security forces and commercial customers. Because the sale transaction is conditioned on completion of our pending merger with L3, the assets and liabilities of our Night Vision business were not classified as held for sale in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited) at March 29, 2019. 


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

To the Shareholders and Board of Directors of Harris Corporation

Results of Review of Interim Financial Statements 

We have reviewed the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet of Harris Corporation (the Company) as of March 29, 2019, the related condensed consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, and equity for the quarter and three quarters ended March 29, 2019 and March 30, 2018, the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows for the three quarters ended March 29, 2019 and March 30, 2018, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the “condensed consolidated interim financial statements”). Based on our reviews, we are not aware of any material modifications that should be made to the condensed consolidated interim financial statements for them to be in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. 

We have previously audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the consolidated balance sheet of the Company as of June 29, 2018, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, cash flows and equity for the year then ended, and the related notes and financial statement schedule (not presented herein); and in our report dated August 27, 2018, except for the retrospective changes for revenue and periodic pension and postretirement benefit costs described in Note 2 and the subsequent event described in Note 25 as to which the date is December 13, 2018, we expressed an unqualified audit opinion on those consolidated financial statements. In our opinion, the information set forth in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet as of June 29, 2018, is fairly stated, in all material respects, in relation to the consolidated balance sheet from which it has been derived. 

Basis for Review Results 

These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the SEC and the PCAOB. We conducted our review in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. A review of interim financial statements consists principally of applying analytical procedures and making inquiries of persons responsible for financial and accounting matters. It is substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB, the objective of which is the expression of an opinion regarding the financial statements taken as a whole. Accordingly, we do not express such an opinion.


Orlando, Florida



Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

OVERVIEW

The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”) is intended to assist in an understanding of our financial condition and results of operations. This MD&A is provided as a supplement to, should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and accompanying Notes appearing elsewhere in this Report (the “Notes”). In addition, reference should be made to our audited Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in our Fiscal 2017-2018 Update 8-K. Except for the historical information contained herein, the discussions in this MD&A contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our future results could differ materially from those discussed herein. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below in this MD&A under “Forward-Looking Statements and Factors that May Affect Future Results.”


•Results of Operations — an analysis of our consolidated results of operations and the results in each of our business segments, to the extent the segment results are helpful to an understanding of our business as a whole, for the periods presented in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).

•Liquidity, Capital Resources and Financial Strategies — an analysis of cash flows, funding of pension plans, common stock repurchases, dividends, capital structure and resources, off-balance sheet arrangements and commercial commitments and contractual obligations.

•Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates — information about accounting policies that require critical judgments and estimates and about accounting standards that have been issued, but are not yet effective for us, and their potential impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

•Forward-Looking Statements and Factors that May Affect Future Results — cautionary information about forward-looking statements and a description of certain risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical results or our current expectations or projections.


•Communication Systems, serving markets in tactical communications and defense products, including tactical ground and airborne radio communications solutions and night vision technology, and in public safety networks; 

•Electronic Systems, providing electronic warfare, avionics, and C4ISR solutions for defense and classified customers and mission-critical communication systems for civil and military aviation and other customers; and

•Space and Intelligence Systems, providing intelligence, space protection, geospatial, complete Earth observation, universe exploration, PNT, and environmental solutions for national security, defense, civil and commercial customers, using advanced sensors, antennas and payloads, as well as ground processing and information analytics. 


The classification of certain prior-period amounts has been adjusted in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) to conform with current-period classifications. Reclassifications include certain direct selling and bid and proposal costs from the “Cost of product sales and services” line item to the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) and in the Notes.

As described in more detail in Note S — Pending Merger in the Notes, we entered into the Merger Agreement with L3 and Merger Sub on October 12, 2018, pursuant to which we and L3 have agreed to combine in an all-stock merger of equals. We and L3 continue to expect the merger to close in the previously announced time frame of mid-calendar year 2019, although we can give no assurances regarding the timing or occurrence of closing. 

Amounts contained in this Report may not always add to totals due to rounding. 


RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Highlights


Net cash provided by operating activities increased 280 percent to $874 million in the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 from $230 million in the first three quarters of fiscal 2018. 

Consolidated Results of Operations


Revenue





Gross Margin




Engineering, Selling and Administrative Expenses 




Non-Operating Income 



See Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards in the Notes for further information.

Income Taxes




Income From Continuing Operations



Income From Continuing Operations Per Diluted Common Share




Discussion of Business Segment Results of Operations

Communication Systems Segment



The increase in segment gross margin in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to higher volume and operational efficiencies, partially offset by program and product mix. Segment gross margin as a percentage of revenue (“gross margin percentage”) decreased in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to program and product mix. The decreases in segment ESA expenses and segment ESA percentage in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2018 reflected management of expenses on higher revenue.

The increase in segment operating income and comparability of segment operating income as a percentage of revenue (“operating margin percentage”) in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2018 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment. 

On April 4, 2019, we entered into a definitive agreement under which we will sell our Night Vision business. See Note T — Subsequent Events in the Notes for additional information. 



The increase in segment gross margin, decrease in segment gross margin percentage and decreases in segment ESA expenses and segment ESA percentage for the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 were primarily due to the same reasons noted above regarding this segment for the third quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018. 

The increases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment for the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018.

Electronic Systems Segment




The increases in segment operating income and segment operating margin percentage in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2018 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment. 


The increase in segment gross margin in the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to higher segment revenue, favorable mix and productivity savings. The increase in segment gross margin percentage in the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to favorable mix and productivity savings. The increase in segment ESA expenses in the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to the same reasons noted above regarding this segment for the third quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018. Segment ESA percentage in the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 was comparable with the first three quarters of fiscal 2018.

The increases in segment operating income and segment operating margin percentage in the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment for the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018.


Space and Intelligence Systems Segment




The increase in segment operating income and comparability of segment operating margin percentage in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2018 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.


The increases in segment gross margin, segment gross margin percentage and segment ESA expenses in the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 were primarily due to the same reasons noted above regarding this segment for the third quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018. Segment ESA percentage in the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 was comparable with the first three quarters of fiscal 2018.

The increase in segment operating income and slight decrease of segment operating margin percentage in the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment for the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018.

Unallocated Corporate Expense





charges related to our decision to transition and exit a commercial air-to-ground LTE radio communications line of business in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 and a $12 million adjustment for deferred compensation in the second quarter of fiscal 2018, partially offset by $29 million of L3 merger-related transaction and integration costs in the first three quarters of fiscal 2019.

LIQUIDITY, CAPITAL RESOURCES AND FINANCIAL STRATEGIES

Cash Flows



•$874 million of net cash provided by operating activities; partially offset by

•$278 million of net repayments of borrowings, including $300 million used for repayment at maturity of the entire principal amount of our Floating Rate Notes due February 27, 2019;

•$244 million used to pay cash dividends;

•$200 million used to repurchase shares of our common stock; and 

•$104 million used for additions of property, plant and equipment.


•$230 million of net cash provided by operating activities, reflecting the impact of a $300 million voluntary pension contribution;

•$185 million of net proceeds from borrowings, including $250 million in proceeds from the issuance of the Floating Rate Notes due April 2020, $300 million in proceeds from the issuance of the Floating Rate Notes due February 2019, $253 million used for repayment of our remaining outstanding indebtedness under the 5-year tranche of our variable-rate term loans due May 29, 2020, $16 million used for repayment of outstanding indebtedness under the 3-year tranche of our variable-rate term loans due May 29, 2018 and $75 million used for repayment of short-term debt outstanding under our commercial paper program; and

•$31 million of proceeds from exercises of employee stock options; more than offset by

•$205 million used to pay cash dividends; 

•$197 million used to repurchase shares of our common stock; and

•$79 million used for additions of property, plant and equipment.


Given our current cash position, outlook for funds generated from operations, credit ratings, available credit facility, cash needs and debt structure, we have not experienced to date, and do not expect to experience, any material issues with liquidity, although we can give no assurances concerning our future liquidity, particularly in light of our overall level of debt, U.S. Government budget uncertainties (including the recent, or any potential successive, U.S. Government shutdown) and the state of global commerce and financial uncertainty.



There can be no assurance, however, that our business will continue to generate cash flows at current levels or that the cost or availability of future borrowings, if any, under our commercial paper program or our credit facility or in the debt markets will not be impacted by any potential future credit or capital markets disruptions. If we are unable to maintain cash balances or generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our obligations, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, reduce or eliminate strategic acquisitions, reduce or terminate our share repurchases, reduce or eliminate dividends, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt or obtain additional financing. Our ability to make principal payments or pay interest on or refinance our indebtedness depends on our future performance and financial results, which, to a certain extent, are subject to general conditions in or affecting the defense, government and other markets we serve and to general economic, political, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors beyond our control.




Funding of Pension Plans

Funding requirements under applicable laws and regulations are a major consideration in making contributions to our U.S. pension plans. Although we have significant discretion in making voluntary contributions, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended by the Pension Protection Act of 2006 and further amended by the Worker, Retiree, and Employer Recovery Act of 2008, the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act (“MAP-21”), and applicable Internal Revenue Code regulations mandate minimum funding thresholds. Failure to satisfy the minimum funding thresholds could result in restrictions on our ability to amend the plans or make benefit payments. With respect to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans, we intend to contribute annually not less than the required minimum funding thresholds.

The Highway and Transportation Funding Act of 2014 and the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 further extended the interest rate stabilization provision of MAP-21 until 2020. We made voluntary contributions to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans of $300 million and $400 million during the third quarter of fiscal 2018 and the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, respectively. As a result, we anticipate making no contributions to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans and minor contributions to our non-U.S. pension plan during the remainder of fiscal 2019.


Common Stock Repurchases 

During the first three quarters of fiscal 2019, we used $200 million to repurchase 1,219,750 shares of our common stock under our repurchase program at an average price per share of $163.99, including commissions of $.02 per share. During the 


first three quarters of fiscal 2018, we used $197 million to repurchase 1,466,713 shares of our common stock under our repurchase program at an average price per share of $134.36, including commissions of $.01 per share. In the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, $24 million and $10 million, respectively, in shares of our common stock were delivered to us or withheld by us to satisfy withholding taxes on employee share-based awards. Shares purchased by us are cancelled and retired. 

As of March 29, 2019, we had a remaining, unused authorization of approximately $501 million under our repurchase program, which does not have an expiration date. Repurchases under our repurchase program are expected to be funded with available cash and commercial paper and may be made through open market purchases, private transactions, transactions structured through investment banking institutions or any combination thereof. The level of our repurchases depends on a number of factors, including our financial condition, capital requirements, cash flows, results of operations, future business prospects and other factors our Board of Directors may deem relevant. The timing, volume and nature of repurchases are subject to market conditions, applicable securities laws and other factors and are at our discretion and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, we will not make repurchases of our common stock at least until after closing of the pending merger, without L3’s consent. Additional information regarding our repurchase program is set forth in this Report under Part II. Item 2. “Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.”

Dividends

On August 25, 2018, our Board of Directors increased the quarterly cash dividend rate on our common stock from $.570 per share to $.685 per share, for an annualized cash dividend rate of $2.740 per share, which was our seventeenth consecutive annual increase in our quarterly cash dividend rate. Our annualized cash dividend rate in fiscal 2018 was $2.280 per share. There can be no assurances that our annualized cash dividend rate will continue to increase. Quarterly cash dividends are typically paid in March, June, September and December. We currently expect that cash dividends will continue to be paid in the near future, but we can give no assurances concerning payment of future dividends. The declaration of dividends and the amount thereof will depend on a number of factors, including our financial condition, capital requirements, cash flows, results of operations, future business prospects and other factors our Board of Directors may deem relevant.

Capital Structure and Resources


We were in compliance with the covenants in the 2018 Credit Agreement at March 29, 2019, including the covenant requiring that we not permit our ratio of consolidated total indebtedness to total capital, each as defined in the 2018 Credit Agreement, to be greater than 0.65 to 1.00. At March 29, 2019, we had no borrowings outstanding under the 2018 Credit Agreement but we had $100 million in borrowings outstanding under our commercial paper program that was supported by the 2018 Credit Facility.





Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements


•Any obligation under certain guarantee contracts;

•A retained or contingent interest in assets transferred to an unconsolidated entity or similar arrangement that serves as credit, liquidity or market risk support to that entity for such assets;

•Any obligation, including a contingent obligation, under certain derivative instruments; and


As of March 29, 2019, we were not participating in any material transactions that generated relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, including variable interest entities, and we did not have any material retained or contingent interest in assets as defined above. As of March 29, 2019, we did not have material financial guarantees or other contractual commitments that we believe are reasonably likely to adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, and we were not a party to any related party transactions that materially affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.


Due to our downsizing of certain operations pursuant to acquisitions, divestitures, restructuring plans or otherwise, certain properties leased by us have been sublet to third parties. In the event any of these third parties vacates any of these premises, we would be legally obligated under master lease arrangements. We believe that the financial risk of default by such sublessees is individually and in the aggregate not material to our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

Commercial Commitments and Contractual Obligations 


In connection with the Merger Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby, we have a contractual obligation to issue 1.30 shares of our common stock for each share of L3 common stock outstanding at closing of the pending merger, and we expect to incur other expenses, such as transaction costs, other payments required as a result of the merger and integration and post-closing restructuring costs. See Note S — Pending Merger in the Notes for further information. In addition, we may have obligations under other contractual arrangements that are accelerated or otherwise impacted as a result of the merger.


CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES


Revenue Recognition

A significant portion of our business is derived from development and production contracts. Revenue and profit related to development and production contracts are recognized over time, typically using the POC cost-to-cost method of revenue recognition, whereby we measure our progress toward completion of performance obligations based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to estimated costs at completion under the contract. Because costs incurred represent work performed, we believe this method best depicts the transfer of control to the customer. We determine the transaction price for each contract based on our best estimate of the consideration we expect to receive, and this includes assumptions regarding variable consideration, such as award and incentive fees. These variable amounts generally are awarded upon achievement of certain negotiated performance metrics, program milestones or cost targets and can be based upon customer discretion. We include such estimated amounts in the transaction price to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is resolved.







We also recognize revenue from contracts with multiple performance obligations. For these contracts, we allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation based on the relative standalone selling price of the good or service underlying each performance obligation. The standalone selling price represents the amount for which we would sell the good or service to a customer on a standalone basis (i.e., not sold as bundled sale with any other products or services). The allocation of transaction price among separate performance obligations may impact the timing of revenue recognition but will not change the total revenue recognized on the contract. Our contracts with the U.S. Government, including foreign military sales contracts, are subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulations and the prices of our contract deliverables are typically based on our estimated or actual costs plus a reasonable profit margin. As a result, the standalone selling prices of the goods and services in these contracts are typically equal to the selling prices stated in the contract, thereby eliminating the need to allocate (or reallocate) the transaction price to the multiple performance obligations. In our non-U.S. Government contracts, we also generally use the expected cost plus a margin approach to determine standalone selling price. In addition, we determine standalone selling price for certain contracts that are commercial in nature based on observable selling prices. In determining the appropriate margin under the cost plus margin approach, we consider historical margins on similar products sold to similar customers or within similar geographies where objective evidence is available. We may also consider our cost structure and pricing objectives, the nature of the proposal, the effects of customization of pricing, our practices used to establish pricing of bundled products, the expected technological life of the product, margins earned on similar contracts with different customers and other factors to determine the appropriate margin. 

Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Standards

Accounting standards that have been recently issued, but are not yet effective for us, are described in Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards in the Notes, which describes the potential impact that these standards are expected to have on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.


FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS

This Report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, as well as assumptions that may not materialize or prove to be correct, which could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, statements concerning: our plans, strategies and objectives for future operations; new products, systems, technologies, services or developments; future economic conditions, performance or outlook; future political conditions; the outcome of contingencies; the potential level of share repurchases, dividends or pension contributions; potential acquisitions or divestitures; the value of contract awards and programs; expected cash flows or capital expenditures; our beliefs or expectations; activities, events or developments that we intend, expect, project, believe or anticipate will or may occur in the future; and assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Forward-looking statements may be identified by their use of forward-looking terminology, such as “believes,” “expects,” “may,” “should,” “would,” “will,” “intends,” “plans,” “estimates,” “anticipates,” “projects” and similar words or expressions. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect our management’s opinions only as of the date of filing of this Report and are not guarantees of future performance or actual results. Forward-looking statements are made in reliance on the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). The following are some of the factors we believe could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical results or our current expectations or projections:

•We depend on U.S. Government customers for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of these relationships, a reduction in U.S. Government funding or a change in U.S. Government spending priorities could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

•We depend significantly on U.S. Government contracts, which often are only partially funded, subject to immediate termination, and heavily regulated and audited. The termination or failure to fund, or negative audit findings for, one or more of these contracts could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

•We could be negatively impacted by a security breach, through cyber attack, cyber intrusion, insider threats or otherwise, or other significant disruption of our IT networks and related systems or of those we operate for certain of our customers.

•The U.S. Government’s budget deficit, the national debt and sequestration, as well as any inability of the U.S. Government to complete its budget process for any government fiscal year and consequently having to operate on funding levels equivalent to its prior fiscal year pursuant to a “continuing resolution” or shut down, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

•The level of returns on defined benefit plan assets, changes in interest rates and other factors could affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future periods.

•We enter into fixed-price contracts that could subject us to losses in the event of cost overruns or a significant increase in inflation.

•We use estimates in accounting for many of our programs, and changes in our estimates could adversely affect our future financial results.

•We derive a significant portion of our revenue from international operations and are subject to the risks of doing business internationally, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates.

•Our reputation and ability to do business may be impacted by the improper conduct of our employees, agents or business partners.

•We may not be successful in obtaining the necessary export licenses to conduct certain operations abroad, and Congress may prevent proposed sales to certain foreign governments.

•Our future success will depend on our ability to develop new products, systems, services and technologies that achieve market acceptance in our current and future markets.

•We participate in markets that are often subject to uncertain economic conditions, which makes it difficult to estimate growth in our markets and, as a result, future income and expenditures.

•We cannot predict the consequences of future geo-political events, but they may adversely affect the markets in which we operate, our ability to insure against risks, our operations or our profitability.

•Strategic transactions, including acquisitions and divestitures, involve significant risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

•Disputes with our subcontractors or the inability of our subcontractors to perform, or our key suppliers to timely deliver our components, parts or services, could cause our products, systems or services to be produced or delivered in an untimely or unsatisfactory manner.

•Third parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future that we are infringing directly or indirectly upon their intellectual property rights, and third parties may infringe upon our intellectual property rights.


•The outcome of litigation or arbitration in which we are involved from time to time is unpredictable, and an adverse decision in any such matter could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

•We face certain significant risk exposures and potential liabilities that may not be covered adequately by insurance or indemnity.

•Changes in our effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on our results of operations.

•Our level of indebtedness and our ability to make payments on or service our indebtedness and our unfunded defined benefit plans liability may adversely affect our financial and operating activities or our ability to incur additional debt.

•A downgrade in our credit ratings could materially adversely affect our business.

•Unforeseen environmental issues could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

•We have significant operations in locations that could be materially and adversely impacted in the event of a natural disaster or other significant disruption.


•Some of our workforce is represented by labor unions, so our business could be harmed in the event of a prolonged work stoppage.

•We must attract and retain key employees, and any failure to do so could seriously harm us.

Additional details and discussions concerning some of the factors that could affect our forward-looking statements or future results are set forth in our Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K under Item 1A. “Risk Factors” and in Part II. Item 1A. “Risk Factors” in this Report. The foregoing list of factors and the factors set forth in Item 1A. “Risk Factors” included in our Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K and in Part II. Item 1A. “Risk Factors” in this Report are not exhaustive. Additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or that we currently believe not to be material also may adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Should any risks or uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The forward-looking statements contained in this Report are made as of the date of filing of this Report, and we disclaim any intention or obligation, other than imposed by law, to update or revise any forward-looking statements or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or developments or otherwise. For further information concerning risk factors, see Part II. Item 1A. “Risk Factors” in this Report.

Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.

In the normal course of business, we are exposed to risks associated with foreign currency exchange rates and changes in interest rates. We employ established policies and procedures governing the use of financial instruments to manage our exposure to such risks.



At March 29, 2019, we also had long-term variable-rate debt obligations of $250 million, comprised of $250 million of Floating Rate Notes due April 30, 2020. These debt obligations bear interest that is variable based on certain short-term indices, thus exposing us to interest-rate risk; however, a 10 percent change in interest rates for these debt obligations at March 29, 2019 



We utilize derivative instruments, from time to time, to mitigate interest rate risk associated with anticipated debt transactions. If the derivative instrument is designated as a cash flow hedge, gains and losses from changes in the fair value of such instrument are deferred and included as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income and reclassified to interest expense in the period in which the hedged transaction affects earnings.

At March 29, 2019, we had an outstanding yield-based treasury lock agreement with a notional amount of $400 million to hedge our exposure to fluctuations in the 10-year U.S. Treasury rate associated with our anticipated issuance of long-term notes to redeem or repay at maturity the entire $400 million outstanding principal amount of our 2.7% Notes due April 27, 2020. An unrealized after-tax loss of $8 million associated with this treasury lock was deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income at March 29, 2019. A 10 percent change in the 10-year U.S. Treasury rate would not have had a material impact on the fair value of this treasury lock agreement or our results of operations or cash flows. See Note N — Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities in the Notes for additional information.

Item 4. Controls and Procedures.




PART II. OTHER INFORMATION

Item 1. Legal Proceedings.


Merger Litigation. As described in Note R — Legal Proceedings and Contingencies in the Notes, in connection with our pending merger with L3 (see Note S — Pending Merger in the Notes for additional information), two putative class action lawsuits and one individual lawsuit were filed against the L3 Parties in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York between December 19, 2018 and January 15, 2019, and a third putative class action lawsuit, Kent v. L3 Technologies, Inc., et al., was filed against the L3 Parties and the Harris Parties in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware on January 4, 2019. The complaints in the lawsuits contained substantially similar allegations contending, among other things, that the registration statement on Form S-4 in support of the pending merger misstated or failed to disclose certain allegedly material information in violation of federal securities laws. The complaint in the Kent lawsuit further alleged that the Harris Parties were liable for these violations as “controlling persons” of L3 within the meaning of federal securities laws. On March 12, 2019, the parties to the actions entered into an agreement to settle all claims that were or could have been alleged in the action subject to, among other things, the supplementation by L3 of certain disclosures contained in the registration statement, which were reflected in a Current Report on Form 8-K filed by L3 with the SEC on March 13, 2019, and the dismissal of the four lawsuits, all of which were dismissed by March 18, 2019. 

Tax Audits. Our tax filings are subject to audit by taxing authorities in jurisdictions where we conduct or conducted business. These audits may result in assessments of additional taxes that are subsequently resolved with the authorities or ultimately through legal proceedings. We believe we have adequately accrued for any ultimate amounts that are likely to result from these audits; however, final assessments, if any, could be different from the amounts recorded in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).

Item 1A. Risk Factors.

Investors should carefully review and consider the information regarding certain factors that could materially affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows as set forth under Item 1A. “Risk Factors” in our Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K. Except as set forth below in this Item 1A. “Risk Factors,” we do not believe that there have been any material changes to the risk factors previously disclosed in our Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K. We may disclose changes to such risk factors or disclose additional risk factors from time to time in our future filings with the SEC. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe not to be material also may adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.


•Because the exchange ratio is fixed and will not be adjusted in the event of any change in either our or L3’s stock price, the value of the shares of the combined company is uncertain.

•The market price for shares of common stock of the combined company following the completion of the merger may be affected by factors different from, or in addition to, those that historically have affected or currently affect the market prices of shares of our common stock and L3 common stock.

•The shares of common stock of the combined company to be received by L3 stockholders as a result of the merger will have rights different from the shares of L3 common stock.

•Our stockholders and L3 stockholders will each have reduced ownership and voting interest in and will exercise less influence over management of the combined company.


•Until the completion of the merger or the termination of the merger agreement in accordance with its terms, we and L3 are each prohibited from entering into certain transactions and taking certain actions that might otherwise be beneficial to us or L3 and our respective stockholders.

•Obtaining required approvals and satisfying closing conditions may prevent or delay completion of the merger.

•We and L3 must obtain certain regulatory approvals and clearances to consummate the merger, which, if delayed, not granted or granted with unacceptable conditions, could prevent, substantially delay or impair consummation of the merger, result in additional expenditures of money and resources or reduce the anticipated benefits of the merger.

•Failure to attract, motivate and retain executives and other key employees could diminish the anticipated benefits of the merger.

•The merger, including uncertainty regarding the merger, may cause customers, suppliers or strategic partners to delay or defer decisions concerning us and L3 and adversely affect each company’s ability to effectively manage their respective businesses.

•The opinions rendered to us and L3 from our respective financial advisors will not reflect changes in circumstances between the dates of such opinions and the completion of the merger.

•Whether or not the merger is completed, the announcement and pendency of the merger could cause disruptions in the businesses of us and L3, which could have an adverse effect on our respective businesses and financial results.

•The merger agreement may be terminated in accordance with its terms and the merger may not be consummated.

•The termination of the merger agreement could negatively impact us or L3.

•The directors and executive officers of us and L3 have interests and arrangements that may be different from, or in addition to, those of our and L3 stockholders generally.

•We or L3 may waive one or more of the closing conditions without re-soliciting stockholder approval.

•The merger agreement contains provisions that could discourage a potential competing acquirer that might be willing to pay more to acquire or merge with either us or L3.

•We and L3 each will incur significant transaction, merger-related and restructuring costs in connection with the merger.

•Our stockholders and L3 stockholders will not be entitled to appraisal rights in the merger.

•Litigation filed against the L3 Parties and the Harris Parties could prevent or delay the consummation of the merger or result in the payment of damages following completion of the merger.

•The failure to successfully combine the businesses of us and L3 may adversely affect the combined company’s future results.

•The combined company may not be able to retain customers or suppliers or customers or suppliers may seek to modify contractual obligations with the combined company, which could have an adverse effect on the combined company’s business and operations.

•The combined company may be exposed to increased litigation, which could have an adverse effect on the combined company’s business and operations.

•Combining the businesses of us and L3 may be more difficult, costly or time-consuming than expected and the combined company may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger, which may adversely affect the combined company’s business results and negatively affect the value of the common stock of the combined company following the merger.

•The failure to integrate successfully the businesses and operations of us and L3 in the expected time frame may adversely affect the combined company’s future results.

•Our and L3’s unaudited prospective financial information is inherently subject to uncertainties, the unaudited pro forma financial data included in our Form S-4 registration statement related to the proposed merger is preliminary and the combined company’s actual financial position and results of operations after the merger may differ materially from those estimates and the unaudited pro forma financial data included in such registration statement. Specifically, the unaudited pro forma combined financial data does not reflect the effect of any divestitures that may be required in connection with the merger.

•The revenue of the combined company will depend on our and L3’s ability to maintain certain levels of government business. The loss of contracts with U.S. and non-U.S. government agencies could adversely affect the combined company’s revenue.

•Third parties may terminate or alter existing contracts or relationships with us or L3.

•The combined company may be unable to retain our and L3 personnel successfully after the merger is completed.

•The combined company’s debt may limit its financial flexibility.

•Declaration, payment and amounts of dividends, if any, distributed to stockholders of the combined company will be uncertain.


These risks are discussed more fully in the registration statement on Form S-4 we filed with the SEC on December 14, 2018, which the SEC declared effective on February 20, 2019. 

Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities





Sales of Unregistered Equity Securities

During the third quarter of fiscal 2019, we did not issue or sell any unregistered equity securities.

Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities.

Not Applicable.

Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures.

Not Applicable.

Item 5. Other Information.

Not Applicable.


Item 6. Exhibits.

EXHIBIT INDEX






SIGNATURE

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


