UNITED STATES 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 




 xQuarterly report pursuant to section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 for the quarterly period ended April 30, 2019 or  


Commission File No. 0-9143 

HURCO COMPANIES, INC. 



 Registrant’s telephone number, including area code (317) 293-5309  



Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Sections 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to the filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes x No ¨ 

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to submit such files). Yes x No ¨ 

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company,” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 


If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ¨ 

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes ¨ No x 

The number of shares of the Registrant's common stock outstanding as of May 31, 2019 was 6,767,237. 

HURCO COMPANIES, INC. 

Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for Fiscal Quarter Ended April 30, 2019 

Table of Contents 



PART I - FINANCIAL INFORMATION 

 Item 1.FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

HURCO COMPANIES, INC. 

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 



The accompanying notes are an integral part of the condensed consolidated financial statements. 


HURCO COMPANIES, INC. 

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 



The accompanying notes are an integral part of the condensed consolidated financial statements. 


HURCO COMPANIES, INC. 

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 



The accompanying notes are an integral part of the condensed consolidated financial statements. 


HURCO COMPANIES, INC. 

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 



The accompanying notes are an integral part of the condensed consolidated financial statements. 


HURCO COMPANIES, INC. 

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY 




The accompanying notes are an integral part of the condensed consolidated financial statements. 


NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Hurco Companies, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. As used in this report, unless the context indicates otherwise, the terms “we”, “us”, “our” and similar language refer to Hurco Companies, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries as a whole. 

We design, manufacture and sell computerized (i.e., Computer Numeric Control, or CNC) machine tools, consisting primarily of vertical machining centers (mills) and turning centers (lathes), to companies in the metal cutting industry through a worldwide sales, service and distribution network. Although the majority of our computer control systems and software products are proprietary, they predominantly use industry standard personal computer components. Our computer control systems and software products are primarily sold as integral components of our computerized machine tool products. We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service, training, and applications support. 

The condensed financial information as of April 30, 2019 and for the three and six months ended April 30, 2019 and April 30, 2018 is unaudited. However, in our opinion, the interim data includes all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, necessary to present fairly our consolidated financial position, results of operations, changes in shareholders’ equity and cash flows for and at the end of the interim periods. We suggest that you read these condensed consolidated financial statements in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 2018. 


We design, manufacture and sell computerized machine tools. Our computer control systems and software products are primarily sold as integral components of our computerized machine tool products. We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service, training and applications support. 

We adopted Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 606 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” (“ASC 606”) on November 1, 2018, the start of our 2019 fiscal year, and elected the modified retrospective method as of the date of adoption. Prior to the adoption of ASC 606, our revenues were already recognized in the same manner as that required by ASC 606. Therefore, the adoption of ASC 606 did not have an effect on our beginning retained earnings or our overall financial statements as of and for the three and six months ended April 30, 2019. 

We recognize revenues from the sale of machine tools, components and accessories and services and reflect the consideration to which we expect to be entitled. We record revenues based on a five-step model in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) guidance codified in ASC 606. In accordance with ASC 606, we have defined contracts as agreements with our customers and distributors in the form of purchase orders, packing or shipping documents, invoices, and, periodically, verbal requests for components and accessories. For each contract, we identify our performance obligations, which is delivering goods or services, determine the transaction price, allocate the contract transaction price to the performance obligations (when applicable), and recognize the revenue when (or as) the performance obligation is transferred to the customer. A good or service is transferred when the customer obtains control of that good or service. Our computerized machine tools are general purpose computer controlled machine tools that are typically used in stand-alone operations. Prior to shipment, we test each machine to ensure the machine’s compliance with standard operating specifications. We deem that the customer obtains control upon delivery of the product and that obtaining control is not contingent upon contractual customer acceptance. Therefore, we recognize revenue from sales of our machine tool systems upon delivery of the product to the customer or distributor, which is normally at the time of shipment. 


Depending upon geographic location, after shipment, a machine may be installed at the customer’s facilities by a distributor, independent contractor or by one of our service technicians. In most instances where a machine is sold through a distributor, we have no installation involvement. If sales are direct or through sales agents, we will typically complete the machine installation, which consists of the reassembly of certain parts that were removed for shipping and the re-testing of the machine to ensure that it is performing within the standard specifications. We consider the machine installation process for our three-axis machines to be inconsequential and perfunctory. For our five-axis machines that we install, we estimate the fair value of the installation performance obligation and recognize that installation revenue on a prorate basis over the period of the installation process. 

From time to time, and depending upon geographic location, we may provide training or freight services. We consider these services to be perfunctory within the context of the contract, as the value of these services typically does not rise to a material level as a component of the total contract value. Service fees from maintenance contracts are deferred and recognized in earnings on a prorate basis over the term of the contract and are generally sold on a stand-alone basis. Customer discounts and estimated product returns are considered variable consideration and are recorded as a reduction of revenue in the same period that the related sales are recorded. We have reviewed the overall sales transactions for variable consideration and have determined that these amounts are not significant. 

 3.DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES 

We are exposed to certain market risks relating to our ongoing business operations, including foreign currency risk, interest rate risk and credit risk. We manage our exposure to these and other market risks through regular operating and financing activities. Currently, the only risk that we manage through the use of derivative instruments is foreign currency risk, for which we enter into derivative instruments in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts with a few major financial institutions. 

We enter into these forward exchange contracts to reduce the potential effects of foreign exchange rate movements on our net equity investment in one of our foreign subsidiaries, to reduce the impact on gross profit and net earnings from sales and purchases denominated in foreign currencies, and to reduce the impact on our net earnings of foreign currency fluctuations on receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies that are different than the subsidiaries’ functional currency. We are primarily exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to transactions and net assets denominated in Euros, Pounds Sterling, Indian Rupee, South African Rand, Singapore Dollars, Chinese Yuan, Polish Zloty, and New Taiwan Dollars. We record all derivative instruments as assets or liabilities at fair value. 

Derivatives Designated as Hedging Instruments 



We had forward contracts outstanding as of April 30, 2019, denominated in Euros, Pounds Sterling and New Taiwan Dollars with set maturity dates ranging from May 2019 through April 2020. The contract amounts, expressed at forward rates in U.S. Dollars at April 30, 2019, were $24.9 million for Euros, $9.5 million for Pounds Sterling and $26.0 million for New Taiwan Dollars. At April 30, 2019, we had approximately $702,000 of gains, net of tax, related to cash flow hedges deferred in Accumulated other comprehensive loss. Included in this amount were $195,000 of unrealized gains, net of tax, related to cash flow hedge instruments that remain subject to currency fluctuation risk. The majority of these deferred losses will be recorded as an adjustment to Cost of sales and service in periods through April 2020, when the corresponding inventory that is the subject of the related hedge contracts is sold, as described above. 

We are also exposed to foreign currency exchange risk related to our investment in net assets in foreign countries. To manage this risk, we entered into a forward contract with a notional amount of €3.0 million in November 2018. We designated this forward contract as a hedge of our net investment in Euro denominated assets. We selected the forward method under FASB guidance related to the accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities. The forward method requires all changes in the fair value of the contract to be reported as a cumulative translation adjustment in Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, in the same manner as the underlying hedged net assets. This forward contract matures in November 2019. As of April 30, 2019, we had $804,000 of realized gains and $72,000 of unrealized gains, net of tax, recorded as cumulative translation adjustments in Accumulated other comprehensive loss related to this forward contract. 

Derivatives Not Designated as Hedging Instruments 

We also enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to protect against the effects of foreign currency fluctuations on receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies. These derivative instruments are not designated as hedges under the FASB guidance and, as a result, changes in their fair value are reported currently as Other income (expense), net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income consistent with the transaction gain or loss on the related receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies. 

We had forward contracts outstanding as of April 30, 2019, denominated in Euros, South African Rand, and New Taiwan Dollar with set maturity dates ranging from May 2019 through April 2020. The contract amounts, expressed at forward rates in U.S. Dollars at April 30, 2019, totaled $61.4 million. 

Fair Value of Derivative Instruments 




Effect of Derivative Instruments on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, Condensed Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity and Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income 



We did not recognize any gains or losses as a result of hedges deemed ineffective for the three months ended April 30, 2019 and 2018. 








We did not recognize any gains or losses as a result of hedges deemed ineffective for the six months ended April 30, 2019 and 2018. 







In March 2016, we adopted the Hurco Companies, Inc. 2016 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2016 Equity Plan”), which allows us to grant awards of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, stock units and other stock-based awards. The 2016 Equity Plan replaced the Hurco Companies, Inc. 2008 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2008 Plan”) and is the only active plan under which equity awards may be made by us to our employees and non-employee directors. No further awards will be made under our 2008 Plan. The total number of shares of our common stock that may be issued pursuant to awards under the 2016 Equity Plan is 856,048, which includes 386,048 shares remaining available for future grants under the 2008 Plan as of March 10, 2016, the date our shareholders approved the 2016 Equity Plan. 

The Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors has the authority to determine the officers, directors and key employees who will be granted awards under the 2016 Equity Plan; designate the number of shares subject to each award; determine the terms and conditions upon which awards will be granted; and prescribe the form and terms of award agreements. We have granted restricted shares and performance stock units under the 2016 Equity Plan that are currently outstanding, and we have granted stock options under the 2008 Plan that are currently outstanding. No stock option may be exercised more than ten years after the date of grant or such shorter period as the Compensation Committee may determine at the date of grant. The market value of a share of our common stock, for purposes of the 2016 Equity Plan, is the closing sale price as reported by the Nasdaq Global Select Market on the date in question or, if not a trading day, on the last preceding trading date. 





The intrinsic value of an outstanding stock option is calculated as the difference between the stock price as of April 30, 2019 and the exercise price of the option. 

On March 14, 2019, the Compensation Committee granted a total of 11,824 shares of time-based restricted stock to our non-employee directors. The restricted shares vest in full one year from the date of grant provided the recipient remains on the board of directors through that date. The grant date fair value of the restricted shares was based on the closing sales price of our common stock on the grant date, which was $40.58 per share. 

On January 2, 2019, the Compensation Committee determined the degree to which the long-term incentive compensation arrangement approved for the fiscal 2016-2018 performance period was attained, and the resulting payout level relative to the target amount for each of the metrics that were established by the Compensation Committee in 2016. As a result, the Compensation Committee determined that a total of 32,559 performance shares were earned by our executive officers, which performance shares vested on January 2, 2019. The vesting date fair value of the performance shares was based on the closing sales price of our common stock on the vesting date, which was $36.08 per share. 

On January 2, 2019, the Compensation Committee also approved a long-term incentive compensation arrangement for our executive officers in the form of restricted shares and performance stock units (“PSUs”) under the 2016 Equity Plan, which will be payable in shares of our common stock if earned and vested. The awards were approximately 25% time-based vesting and approximately 75% performance-based vesting. The three-year performance period for the PSUs is fiscal 2019 through fiscal 2021. 


On that date, the Compensation Committee granted a total of 21,825 shares of time-based restricted stock to our executive officers. The restricted shares vest in thirds over three years from the date of grant provided the recipient remains employed through that date. The grant date fair value of the restricted shares was based upon the closing sales price of our common stock on the date of grant, which was $36.08 per share. 

On January 2, 2019, the Compensation Committee also granted a total target number of 30,943 PSUs to our executive officers designated as “PSU – TSR”. These PSUs were weighted as approximately 40% of the overall 2019 executive long-term incentive compensation arrangement and will vest and be paid based upon the total shareholder return of our common stock over the three-year period of fiscal 2019-2021, relative to the total shareholder return of the companies in a specified peer group over that period. Participants will have the ability to earn between 50% of the target number of the PSUs – TSR for achieving threshold performance and 200% of the target number of the PSUs – TSR for achieving maximum performance. The grant date fair value of the PSUs – TSR was $40.72 per PSU and was calculated using the Monte Carlo approach. 

On January 2, 2019, the Compensation Committee also granted a total target number of 30,557 PSUs to our executive officers designated as “PSU – ROIC”. These PSUs were weighted as approximately 35% of the overall 2019 executive long-term incentive compensation arrangement and will vest and be paid based upon the achievement of pre-established goals related to our average return on invested capital over the three-year period of fiscal 2019-2021. Participants will have the ability to earn between 50% of the target number of the PSUs - ROIC for achieving threshold performance and 200% of the target number of the PSUs - ROIC for achieving maximum performance. The grant date fair value of the PSUs – ROIC was based on the closing sales price of our common stock on the grant date, which was $36.08 per share. 

On November 14, 2018, the Compensation Committee granted a total of 7,200 shares of time-based restricted stock to our non-executive employees. The restricted shares vest in thirds over three years from the date of grant provided the recipient remains employed through that date. The grant date fair value of the restricted shares was based upon the closing sales price of our common stock on the date of grant, which was $40.01 per share. 



During the first six months of fiscal 2019 and 2018, we recorded $1.4 million and $1.2 million, respectively, of stock-based compensation expense related to grants under the 2008 Plan and the 2016 Equity Plan. As of April 30, 2019, there was an estimated $5.2 million of total unrecognized stock-based compensation cost that we expect to recognize by the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2022. 






Accounts receivable are net of allowances for doubtful accounts of $888,000 as of April 30, 2019 and $1.0 million as of October 31, 2018. 







 9.GUARANTEES AND PRODUCT WARRANTIES  

From time to time, our subsidiaries guarantee third party payment obligations in connection with the sale of machines to customers that use financing. We follow FASB guidance for accounting for guarantees (codified in ASC 460). As of April 30, 2019, we had 24 outstanding third party payment guarantees totaling approximately $0.6 million. The terms of these guarantees are consistent with the underlying customer financing terms. Upon shipment of a machine, the customer assumes the risk of ownership and control. The customer does not obtain title, however, until the customer has paid for the machine. A retention of title clause allows us to recover the machine if the customer defaults on the financing. We accrue liabilities under these guarantees at fair value, which amounts are insignificant. 



The year-over-year increase in our warranty reserve was primarily due to an increase in unit sales volume. 


On December 7, 2012, we entered into an agreement, which was subsequently amended on May 9, 2014, June 5, 2014, December 5, 2014 and December 6, 2016 (as amended, the “2012 Credit Agreement”) with JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A that provided us with an unsecured revolving credit and letter of credit facility. The 2012 Credit Agreement terminated on its scheduled maturity date of December 31, 2018. 

On December 31, 2018, we and our subsidiary Hurco B.V. entered into a new credit agreement (the “2018 Credit Agreement”) with Bank of America, N.A., as the lender. The 2018 Credit Agreement replaced the 2012 Credit Agreement. The 2018 Credit Agreement provides for an unsecured revolving credit and letter of credit facility in a maximum aggregate amount of $40.0 million. The 2018 Credit Agreement provides that the maximum amount of outstanding letters of credit at any one time may not exceed $10.0 million, the maximum amount of outstanding loans made to our subsidiary Hurco B.V. at any one time may not exceed $20.0 million, and the maximum amount of all outstanding loans denominated in alternative currencies at any one time may not exceed $20.0 million. Under the 2018 Credit Agreement, we and Hurco B.V. are borrowers, and certain of our other subsidiaries are guarantors. The scheduled maturity date of the 2018 Credit Agreement is December 31, 2020. 

Borrowings under the 2018 Credit Agreement bear interest at floating rates based on, at our option, either (i) a LIBOR-based rate, or other alternative currency-based rate approved by the lender, plus 0.75% per annum, or (ii) a base rate (which is the highest of (a) the federal funds rate plus 0.50%, (b) the prime rate or (c) the one month LIBOR-based rate plus 1.00%), plus 0.00% per annum. Outstanding letters of credit will carry an annual rate of 0.75%. 


The 2018 Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants and events of default, including covenants (1) restricting us from making certain investments, loans, advances and acquisitions (but permitting us to make investments in subsidiaries of up to $10.0 million); (2) restricting us from making certain payments, including cash dividends, except that we may pay cash dividends as long as immediately before and after giving effect to such payment, the sum of the unused amount of the commitments under the 2018 Credit Agreement plus our cash on hand is not less than $10.0 million, and as long as we are not in default before and after giving effect to such dividend payments; (3) requiring that we maintain a minimum working capital of $125.0 million; and (4) requiring that we maintain a minimum tangible net worth of $170.0 million. We may use the proceeds from advances under the 2018 Credit Agreement for general corporate purposes. 

In December 2018, in connection with our entry into the 2018 Credit Agreement, (1) using cash on hand, we repaid in full the $1.4 million outstanding under, and terminated, our credit facility in China and (2) we terminated our United Kingdom credit facility. In March 2019, our wholly-owned subsidiaries in Taiwan, Hurco Manufacturing Ltd. (“HML”), and China, Ningbo Hurco Machine Tool Co. Ltd. (“NHML”), closed on uncommitted revolving credit facilities with maximum aggregate amounts of 150 million New Taiwan Dollars (the “Taiwan credit facility”) and 32.5 million Chinese Yuan (the “China credit facility”), respectively. Both the Taiwan and China credit facilities have a final maturity date of March 5, 2020. 

As a result, as of April 30, 2019, our existing credit facilities consist of our €1.5 million revolving credit facility in Germany, the 150 million New Taiwan Dollars Taiwan credit facility, the 32.5 million Chinese Yuan China credit facility and the $40.0 million revolving credit facility under the 2018 Credit Agreement. 

As of April 30, 2019, there were no borrowings under any of our credit facilities and there was $51.4 million of available borrowing capacity thereunder. 


In December 2017, the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the “Tax Reform Act”) was enacted. The Tax Reform Act lowered the U.S. corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, implemented a territorial tax system from a worldwide system, imposed a tax on deemed repatriation of earnings of foreign subsidiaries, and added provisions related to Global Intangible Low Taxed Income (“GILTI”) and Foreign-derived Intangible Income (“FDII”), among other provisions. 

The Tax Reform Act created a new requirement that GILTI income earned by Controlled Foreign Corporations (“CFC’s”) must be included in the gross income of the CFC’s U.S. shareholder effective in fiscal 2019. Under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”), we are allowed to make an accounting policy choice of either (1) treating taxes due on U.S. inclusions in taxable income related to GILTI as a current period expense when incurred (the “period cost method”) or (2) factoring such amounts into our measurement of deferred taxes (the “deferred method”). We have included an estimate of the GILTI tax using the period cost method in our annualized effective tax rate used to determine tax expense for the three and six months ended April 30, 2019. 

The Tax Reform Act also created the FDII for U.S. companies that derive income from the export of tangible and intangible property and services effective in fiscal 2019. We have included an estimate of the deduction attributable to FDII in our annualized effective tax rate used to determine tax expense for the three and six months ended April 30, 2019. 

We recorded income tax expense during the first six months of fiscal 2019 of $4.9 million compared to $6.2 million for the same period in fiscal 2018. Our effective tax rate for the first six months of fiscal 2019 was 29%, compared to 48% in the corresponding prior year period. 

Our unrecognized tax benefits were $234,000 as of April 30, 2019 and $205,000 as of October 31, 2018, and in each case included accrued interest. 


We recognize accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as components of income tax expense. As of April 30, 2019, the gross amount of interest accrued, reported in Accrued expenses and other, was approximately $30,000, which did not include the federal tax benefit of interest deductions. 

We file U.S. federal and state income tax returns, as well as tax returns in several foreign jurisdictions. The statutes of limitations with respect to unrecognized tax benefits will expire between July 2019 and July 2022. 





Included in Level 1 assets are mutual fund investments under a nonqualified deferred compensation plan. We estimate the fair value of these investments on a recurring basis using market prices that are readily available. 

Included in Level 2 fair value measurements are derivative assets and liabilities related to gains and losses on foreign currency forward exchange contracts entered into with a third party. We estimate the fair value of these derivatives on a recurring basis using foreign currency exchange rates obtained from active markets. Derivative instruments are reported in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements at fair value. We have derivative financial instruments in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts as described in Note 3 of Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. The U.S. Dollar equivalent notional amounts of these contracts was $127.5 million and $145.2 million at April 30, 2019 and October 31, 2018, respectively. 

The fair value of our foreign currency forward exchange contracts and the related currency positions are subject to offsetting market risk resulting from foreign currency exchange rate volatility. The counterparty to the forward exchange contracts is a substantial and creditworthy financial institution. We do not consider either the risk of counterparties non-performance or the economic consequences of counterparty non-performance to be material risks. 


From time to time, we are involved in claims and lawsuits arising in the normal course of business. Pursuant to applicable accounting rules, we accrue the minimum liability for each known claim when the estimated outcome is a range of possible loss and no one amount within that range is more likely than another. We maintain insurance policies for such matters, and we record insurance recoveries when we determine such recovery to be probable. We do not expect any of these claims, individually or in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. We believe that the ultimate resolution of claims for any losses will not exceed our insurance policy coverages. 




Between February 2016 and February 2019, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), and various related updates, which establish a comprehensive new lease accounting model. ASU 2016-02 clarifies the definition of a lease, requires a dual approach to lease classification similar to current lease classifications, and requires lessees to recognize leases on the balance sheet as a lease liability with a corresponding right-of-use asset for leases with a lease-term of more than twelve months. ASU 2016-02 is effective for our fiscal year 2020, including interim periods within the fiscal year, and requires modified retrospective application. Early adoption is permitted. We are currently assessing the impact this new accounting guidance will have on our consolidated financial statements and disclosures. 




 Item 2.MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 


EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW 

Hurco Companies, Inc. is an international industrial technology company operating in a single segment. We design, manufacture and sell computerized (i.e., Computer Numeric Control, or CNC) machine tools, consisting primarily of vertical machining centers (mills) and turning centers (lathes), to companies in the metal cutting industry through a worldwide sales, service and distribution network. Although the majority of our computer control systems and software products are proprietary, they predominantly use industry standard personal computer components. Our computer control systems and software products are primarily sold as integral components of our computerized machine tool products. We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service, training and applications support. 

The following overview is intended to provide a brief explanation of the principal factors that have contributed to our recent financial performance. This overview is intended to be read in conjunction with the more detailed information included in our financial statements that appear elsewhere in this report. 

The market for machine tools is international in scope. We have both significant foreign sales and significant foreign manufacturing operations. During the first six months of fiscal 2019, approximately 51% of our revenues were attributable to customers in Europe, where we typically sell more of our higher-performance, higher-priced VMX series machines. Additionally, approximately 12% of our revenues were attributable to customers in the Asia Pacific region, where we encounter greater price pressures. 


We principally sell our products through more than 170 independent agents and distributors throughout North and South America (the “Americas”), Europe and Asia. Although some distributors carry competitive products, we are the primary line for the majority of our distributors globally. We also have our own direct sales and service organizations in China, France, Germany, India, Italy, Poland, Singapore, South Africa, Taiwan, the United Kingdom and certain parts of the United States, which are among the world’s principal machine tool consumption markets. The vast majority of our machine tools are manufactured to our specifications primarily by our wholly-owned subsidiary in Taiwan, HML. Machine castings and components to support HML’s production are manufactured at our wholly-owned subsidiary in Ningbo, China, NHML. Components to support our SRT line of five-axis machining centers, such as the direct drive spindle, swivel head and rotary table, are manufactured by LCM in Italy. 


Our sales to foreign customers are denominated, and payments by those customers are made, in the prevailing currencies in the countries in which those customers are located (primarily the Euro, Pound Sterling and Chinese Yuan). Our product costs are incurred and paid primarily in the New Taiwan Dollar and the U.S. Dollar. Changes in currency exchange rates may have a material effect on our operating results and consolidated financial statements as reported under U.S. GAAP. For example, when the U.S. Dollar weakens in value relative to a foreign currency, sales made, and expenses incurred, in that currency when translated to U.S. Dollars for reporting in our financial statements, are higher than would be the case when the U.S. Dollar is stronger. In the comparison of our period-to-period results, we discuss the effect of currency translation on those results, which reflect translation to U.S. Dollars at exchange rates prevailing during the period covered by those financial statements. 

Our high levels of foreign manufacturing and sales also expose us to cash flow risks due to fluctuating currency exchange rates. We seek to mitigate those risks through the use of various derivative instruments, principally foreign currency forward exchange contracts. See Note 3 of Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

Three Months Ended April 30, 2019 Compared to Three Months Ended April 30, 2018 

Sales and Service Fees. Sales and service fees for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 were $70.7 million, an increase of $250,000, or less than 1%, compared to the corresponding prior year period and included an unfavorable currency impact of $3.0 million, or 4%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.  

Sales and Service Fees by Geographic Region 



Sales in the Americas for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 increased by 10%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018. The increase in sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was primarily attributable to sales of vertical milling machines from a U.S. machine tool distributor acquired by Hurco in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 located in California, one of the largest machine tool markets in the U.S., and increased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi vertical milling machines in the U.S. European sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 were relatively unchanged compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included an unfavorable currency impact of 7%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes, which was largely offset by increased sales of Hurco vertical milling machines in Germany. Asian Pacific sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased by 17%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018. The decrease in Asian Pacific sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was primarily attributable to decreased shipments of Hurco vertical milling machines and Takumi bridge mill machines in China and an unfavorable currency impact of 2% when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. 


Sales and Service Fees by Product Category 



† Amounts shown do not include computer control systems and software sold as an integrated component of computerized machine systems. 

Sales of computerized machine tools decreased slightly for the second quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included an unfavorable currency impact of 4% when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. Sales of computer control systems and software increased by 9%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, due mainly to an increase in aftermarket software sales in France. Sales of service parts and service fees increased in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 by 4% and 5%, respectively, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018. The increases were primarily attributable to sales of aftermarket sales and service from the newly acquired distributor. 

Orders. Orders for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 were $67.2 million, a decrease of $12.7 million, or 16%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included an unfavorable currency impact of $2.6 million, or 3%, when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars. 



Orders in the Americas for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased by 3%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, due primarily to decreased customer demand in the U.S. for vertical milling machines, partially offset by an increase in orders for vertical milling machines by the newly acquired distributor. European orders for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased by 20%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included an unfavorable currency impact of 5% when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars. The year-over-year decrease in European orders was driven primarily by decreased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi vertical milling machines. Asian Pacific orders for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased by 22%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included an unfavorable currency impact of 2% when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars. The year-over-year decrease in Asian Pacific orders was mainly the result of decreased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi machines in China. 

Gross Profit. Gross profit for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was $21.6 million, or 31% of sales, compared to $19.3 million, or 27% of sales, for the corresponding prior year period. The year-over-year increase in gross profit as a percentage of sales reflected an increased mix of larger, higher-priced vertical milling machine sales, as well as margin contribution from vertical milling machine sales from the newly acquired distributor. 

Operating Expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 were $14.1 million, or 20% of sales, compared to $13.3 million, or 19% of sales, in the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included a favorable currency impact of $503,000 when translating foreign expenses to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. The increase in year-over-year selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily related to increased salaries and benefits, increased sales and marketing expenses and operating expenses associated with the newly acquired distributor. 


Operating Income. Operating income for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was $7.5 million, compared to $6.0 million for the corresponding period in fiscal 2018. The increase in operating income year-over-year was driven primarily by an increased sales mix of larger, higher-priced vertical milling machine sales. 

Other Income (Expense), Net. Other income (expense) in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 increased by $0.6 million from the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, due primarily to the net realized and unrealized losses from foreign currency fluctuations on payables and receivables, net of foreign currency forward exchange contracts. 

Income Taxes. The effective tax rate for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was 32%, compared to 31% in the corresponding prior year period. The year-over-year increase in the effective tax rate for the second quarter was primarily due to a shift in taxable income and loss among the various geographic regions. 

Six Months Ended April 30, 2019 Compared to Six Months Ended April 30, 2018 

Sales and Service Fees. Sales and service fees for the first six months of fiscal 2019 were $144.9 million, an increase of $6.0 million, or 4%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included an unfavorable currency impact of $5.7 million, or 4%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. 

Sales and Service Fees by Geographic Region 



Sales in the Americas for the first six months of fiscal 2019 increased by 24%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018. The increase in sales for the first six months of fiscal 2019 was primarily attributable to sales of vertical milling machines from the newly acquired distributor, as well as increased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi vertical milling machines in the U.S. European sales for the first six months of fiscal 2019 decreased by 4%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018. The decrease in European sales was primarily attributable to an unfavorable currency impact of 6%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. Asian Pacific sales for the first six months of fiscal 2019 decreased by 8%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018. The decrease in Asian Pacific sales was primarily attributable to decreased shipments of Hurco vertical milling machines and Takumi bridge mill machines in China and an unfavorable currency impact of 5%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. 


Sales and Service Fees by Product Category 



 †Amounts shown do not include computer control systems and software sold as an integrated component of computerized machine systems.  

Sales of computerized machine tools for the first six months of fiscal 2019 increased by 4%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included an unfavorable currency impact of 4% when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. The increase in sales was primarily attributable to sales of vertical milling machines by the newly acquired distributor. Sales of computer control systems and software increased by 15%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, due mainly to an increase in aftermarket software sales in France. Sales of service parts and service fees increased in the first six months of fiscal 2019 by 10% and 6%, respectively, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018. The increases were primarily attributable to sales of aftermarket sales and service by the newly acquired distributor. 

Orders. Orders for the first six months of fiscal 2019 were $135.2 million, a decrease of $21.6 million, or 14%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included an unfavorable currency impact of $5.2 million, or 3%, when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars. 



Orders in the Americas for the first six months of fiscal 2019 increased by 9%, with such increase primarily attributable to orders for vertical milling machines by the newly acquired distributor and increased customer demand for Hurco vertical milling machines in the U.S. European orders for the first six months of fiscal 2019 decreased by 22%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, and included an unfavorable currency impact of 5% when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars. The year-over-year decrease in orders was driven primarily by decreased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi vertical milling machines, as well as a decrease in customer demand for electro-mechanical components and accessories manufactured by our wholly-owned subsidiary, LCM. Asian Pacific orders for the first six months of fiscal 2019 decreased by 20%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, and included an unfavorable currency impact of 4%, when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars. The year-over-year decrease in orders was mainly the result of decreased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi machines in China. 

Gross Profit. Gross profit for the first six months of fiscal 2019 was $43.8 million, or 30% of sales, compared to $39.4 million, or 28% of sales, for the corresponding prior year period. The year-over-year increase in gross profit as a percentage of sales reflected an increased mix of larger, higher-priced vertical milling machine sales, as well as margin contribution from the vertical milling machine sales from the newly acquired distributor. 

Operating Expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the first six months of fiscal 2019 were $28.0 million, or 19% of sales, compared to $26.3 million, or 19% of sales, in the prior year period and included a favorable currency impact of $1.0 million when translating foreign expenses to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. The increase in year-over-year selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily related to increased salaries and benefits, increased sales and marketing expenses and operating expenses associated with the newly acquired distributor. 


Operating Income. Operating income for the first six months of fiscal 2019 was $15.8 million, compared to $13.1 million for the corresponding period in fiscal 2018. The increase in operating income year-over-year was driven primarily by an increased sales mix of larger, higher-priced vertical milling machine sales. 

Other Income (Expense), Net. Other income (expense) in the first six months of fiscal 2019 increased by $1.0 million from the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, due primarily to the net realized and unrealized losses from foreign currency fluctuations on payables and receivables, net of foreign currency forward exchange contracts. 

Income Taxes. The effective tax rate for the first six months of fiscal 2019 was 29%, compared to 48% in the corresponding prior year period. The year-over-year decrease in the effective tax rate for the first six months was primarily due to one-time charges of $2.9 million related to the Tax Reform Act recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. The impact of these one-time charges increased the effective tax rate by approximately 39% for the first quarter of fiscal 2018.  

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  

At April 30, 2019, we had cash and cash equivalents of $70.2 million, compared to $77.2 million at October 31, 2018. Approximately 53% of the $70.2 million of cash and cash equivalents is denominated in U.S. Dollars. The balance is attributable to our foreign operations and is held in the local currencies of our various foreign entities subject to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We do not believe that the indefinite reinvestment of these funds offshore impairs our ability to meet our domestic working capital needs. 

Working capital was $205.1 million at April 30, 2019, compared to $194.6 million at October 31, 2018. The increase in working capital was primarily due to an increase in inventories and decreases in accounts payable and accrued payroll and employee benefits. 

Capital expenditures of $2.3 million during the first six months of fiscal 2019 were primarily for capital improvements in existing facilities and software development costs. We funded these expenditures with cash on hand. 

See Note 10 of Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of our credit facilities. As of April 30, 2019, there were no borrowings under any of our credit facilities, there was $51.4 million of available borrowing capacity thereunder and we were in compliance with all covenants relating thereto. 

We believe our cash position and borrowing capacity under our credit facilities provide adequate liquidity to fund our operations over the next twelve months and allow us to remain committed to our strategic plan of product innovation and targeted penetration of developing markets. 

We continue to receive and review information on businesses and assets for potential acquisition, including intellectual property assets that are available for purchase. 

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

Our accounting policies, which are described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2018, require management to make significant estimates and assumptions using information available at the time the estimates are made. These estimates and assumptions significantly affect various reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. If our future experience differs materially from these estimates and assumptions, our results of operations and financial condition would be affected. There were no material changes to our critical accounting policies during the first six months of fiscal 2019. 


CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND COMMITMENTS 

There have been no material changes related to our contractual obligations and commitments from the information provided in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2018. 

OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS 

From time to time, our subsidiaries guarantee third party payment obligations in connection with the sale of machines to customers that use financing. We follow FASB guidance for accounting for guarantees (codified in ASC 460). As of April 30, 2019, we had 24 outstanding third party payment guarantees totaling approximately $0.6 million. The terms of these guarantees are consistent with the underlying customer financing terms. Upon shipment of a machine, the customer assumes the risk of ownership and control. The customer does not obtain title, however, until the customer has paid for the machine. A retention of title clause allows us to recover the machine if the customer defaults on the financing. We accrue liabilities under these guarantees at fair value, which amounts are insignificant. 

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 

Certain statements made in this report constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from those expressed or implied by the statements. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include, but are not limited to: 

 ·The cyclical nature of the machine tool industry; 

 ·Uncertain economic conditions, which may adversely affect overall demand, in the Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific markets; 

 ·The risks of our international operations; 

 ·The limited number of our manufacturing and supply chain sources; 

 ·The effects of changes in currency exchange rates; 

 ·Our dependence on new product development; 

 ·Possible obsolescence of our technology and the need to make technological advances; 

 ·Governmental actions, initiatives and regulations, including import and export restrictions, duties and tariffs and changes to tax laws; 

 ·Breaches of our network and system security measures; 

 ·Competition with larger companies that have greater financial resources; 

 ·Increases in the prices of raw materials, especially steel and iron products; 

 ·Acquisitions that could disrupt our operations and affect operating results; 

 ·Impairment of our assets; 

 ·Negative or unforeseen tax consequences; 


 ·Our ability to integrate acquisitions; 

 ·Uncertainty concerning our ability to use tax loss carryforwards; and 

 ·The effect of the loss of members of senior management and key personnel. 

We discuss these and other important risks and uncertainties that may affect our future operations in Part I, Item 1A – Risk Factors in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and may update that discussion in Part II, Item 1A – Risk Factors in this report or a Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q we file hereafter. 

Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. While we believe the assumptions on which the forward-looking statements are based are reasonable, there can be no assurance that these forward-looking statements will prove to be accurate. We expressly disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. This cautionary statement is applicable to all forward-looking statements contained in this report. 


 Item 3.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 

Interest Rate Risk 

Interest on borrowings on our credit facilities are variable and tied to prevailing domestic and foreign interest rates. At April 30, 2019, we had no borrowings outstanding under any of our credit facilities. 

Foreign Currency Exchange Risk 

In the first six months of fiscal 2019, we derived approximately 63% of our revenues from customers located outside of the Americas. All of our computerized machine tools and computer control systems, as well as certain proprietary service parts, are sourced by our U.S.-based engineering and manufacturing division and re-invoiced to our foreign sales and service subsidiaries, primarily in their functional currencies. 

Our products primarily are sourced from foreign suppliers or built to our specifications by either our wholly-owned subsidiaries in Taiwan, the U.S., Italy and China or an affiliated contract manufacturer in Taiwan. Our purchases are predominantly in foreign currencies and in some cases our arrangements with these suppliers include foreign currency risk sharing agreements, which reduce (but do not eliminate) the effects of currency fluctuations on product costs. The predominant portion of the exchange rate risk associated with our product purchases relates to the New Taiwan Dollar and the Euro. 

We enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts from time to time to hedge the cash flow risk related to forecasted inter-company sales and purchases denominated in, or based on, foreign currencies (primarily the Euro, Pound Sterling, and New Taiwan Dollar). We also enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to protect against the effects of foreign currency fluctuations on receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies. We also enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to hedge a portion of our net investment denominated in Euros. We do not speculate in the financial markets and, therefore, do not enter into these contracts for trading purposes. 











 Item 4.CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 

We conducted an evaluation under the supervision and with participation of management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of April 30, 2019, pursuant to Rule 13a-15(b) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Based upon that evaluation, our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the evaluation date. 

There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the three months ended April 30, 2019 that materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 


PART II - OTHER INFORMATION 

 Item 1.LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 

From time to time, we are involved in claims and lawsuits arising in the normal course of business. Pursuant to applicable accounting rules, we accrue the minimum liability for each known claim when the estimated outcome is a range of possible loss and no one amount within that range is more likely than another. We maintain insurance policies for such matters, and we record insurance recoveries when we determine such recovery to be probable. We do not expect any of these claims, individually or in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. We believe that the ultimate resolution of claims for any losses will not exceed our insurance policy coverages. 

 Item 1A.RISK FACTORS 

There have been no material changes from the risk factors disclosed in Part I, Item 1A – Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 2018. 

 Item 2.UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS 

We did not repurchase any shares of our common stock in the second quarter of fiscal 2019. 

 Item 5.OTHER INFORMATION 

During the period covered by this report, the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors engaged our independent registered public accounting firm to perform non-audit, tax planning services. This disclosure is made pursuant to Section 10A(i)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as added by Section 202 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 


 Item 6.EXHIBITS  

EXHIBIT INDEX 



SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 



