Document   

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION



ý QUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE


For the quarterly period ended September 30, 2018 

OR

o TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES

EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934






6922 Hollywood Boulevard, Suite 500

Los Angeles, California 90028




Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes ý No o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes ý No o 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company,” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 


If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes o No ý

As of November 5, 2018, the registrant had 49,288,344 shares of common stock outstanding.

j2 GLOBAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

FOR THE QUARTER ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2018 

INDEX 



PART I. FINANCIAL INFORMATION

Item 1.Financial Statements

j2 GLOBAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements


 j2 GLOBAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME



See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements


j2 GLOBAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME



See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements


j2 GLOBAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 


See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements


NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS




j2 Global, Inc., together with its subsidiaries (“j2 Global”, the “Company”, “our”, “us”, or “we”), is a leading provider of internet services. Through our Cloud Services segment, we provide cloud services to consumers and businesses and license our intellectual property (“IP”) to third parties. In addition, the Cloud Services segment includes fax, voice, backup, security and email marketing products. Our Digital Media segment specializes in the technology, gaming, lifestyle and healthcare markets, offering content, tools and services to consumers and businesses. 

The accompanying interim condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of j2 Global and its direct and indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries. All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

The accompanying interim condensed consolidated financial statements are unaudited and have been prepared in accordance with instructions for Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and note disclosures required by GAAP for complete financial statements although the Company believes that the disclosures made are adequate to make that information not misleading. In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring adjustments) considered necessary for a fair presentation have been reflected in these interim financial statements. It is suggested that these financial statements be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements and the related notes thereto for the year ended December 31, 2017 included in our Annual Report (Form 10-K) filed with the SEC on March 1, 2018. Accordingly, significant accounting policies and other disclosures normally provided have been omitted since such items are disclosed therein.

The results of operations for this interim period are not necessarily indicative of the operating results for the full year or for any future period.

Use of Estimates

The preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, including judgments about investment classifications and the reported amounts of net revenue and expenses during the reporting period. We believe that our most significant estimates are those related to the valuation of investments and assets acquired and liabilities assumed in connection with business combinations, long-lived and intangible asset impairment, contingent consideration, income taxes and contingencies and allowances for doubtful accounts. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates based on historical experience and on various other factors that the Company believes to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates.

Allowances for Doubtful Accounts

j2 Global reserves for receivables it may not be able to collect. The reserves for the Company’s Cloud Services segment are typically driven by the volume of credit card declines and past due invoices and are based on historical experience as well as an evaluation of current market conditions. The reserves for the Company’s Digital Media segment are typically driven by past due invoices based on historical experience. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates the adequacy of these reserves. 

Revenue Recognition

Accounting Standard Codification (“ASC”) Topic 605, Revenue Recognition (“Topic 605”)

j2 Global recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, services have been provided, the sales price is fixed and determinable and collection is probable. 


Principal vs. Agent


ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (“Topic 606”, “ASC 606” or the “new revenue standard”)

j2 Global recognizes revenue when the Company satisfies its obligation by transferring control of the goods or services to its customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services (see Note 3 - Revenues). 

Principal vs. Agent


Sales Taxes

The Company has made an accounting policy election to exclude from the measurement of the transaction price all taxes assessed by a governmental authority that are (i) both imposed on and concurrent with a specific revenue-producing transaction and (ii) collected by the Company from a customer.

Investments

The Company accounts for its investments in debt securities in accordance with ASC Topic No. 320, Investments - Debt Securities (“ASC 320”). Debt investments are typically comprised of corporate debt securities. j2 Global determines the appropriate classification of its investments at the time of acquisition and evaluates such determination at each balance sheet date. Trading securities are those investments that the Company intends to sell within a few hours or days and are carried at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses included in investment income. Available-for-sale securities are those investments j2 Global does not intend to hold to maturity and can be sold. Available-for-sale securities are carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses included in other comprehensive income. Held-to-maturity securities are those investments which the Company has the ability and intent to hold until maturity and are recorded at amortized cost. All debt securities are accounted for on a specific identification basis.

The Company accounts for its investments in equity securities in accordance with ASC Topic No. 321, Investments - Equity Securities (“ASC 321”) which requires the accounting for equity investments (other than those accounted for using the equity method of accounting) generally be measured at fair value for equity securities with readily determinable fair values. For equity securities without a readily determinable fair value that are not accounted for by the equity method, the Company measures the equity security using cost, less impairment, if any, and plus or minus observable price changes arising from orderly transactions in the same or similar investment from the same issuer. Any unrealized gains or losses will be reported in current earnings (see Note 5 - Investments).


Variable Interest Entities (“VIE”)


a) the Company has the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impacts the VIEs economic performance (the power criterion); and

b) the Company has the obligation to absorb losses of the VIE, or the right to receive benefits of the VIE, that could potentially be significant to the VIE (the economic criterion).

The Company has concluded that, as a limited partner, although the obligations to absorb losses or benefit from the gains is not insignificant, the Company does not have “power” over OCV because it does not have the ability to direct the significant decisions which impact the economics of OCV. j2 believes that the OCV general partner, as a single decision maker, holds the ability to make the decisions about the activities that most significantly impacts the OCV Fund’s economic performance. As a result, the Company has concluded that it will not consolidate OCV, as it is not the primary beneficiary of the OCV Fund, and will account for this investment under the equity-method of accounting.

The Company recognizes its equity in the net earnings or losses relating to the investment in OCV on a one-quarter lag due to the timing and availability of financial information from OCV. If the Company becomes aware of a significant decline in value, the loss will be recorded in the period in which the Company identifies the decline.

Fair Value Measurements

j2 Global complies with the provisions of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) ASC Topic No. 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (“ASC 820”), in measuring fair value and in disclosing fair value measurements. ASC 820 provides a framework for measuring fair value and expands the disclosures required for fair value measurements of financial and non-financial assets and liabilities.

As of September 30, 2018, the carrying value of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, interest receivable, accounts payable, accrued expenses, interest payable, customer deposits and long-term debt are reflected in the financial statements at cost. With the exception of certain investments and long-term debt, cost approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of such instruments. The fair value of the Company’s outstanding debt was determined using the quoted market prices of available debt instruments with similar terms and maturities. As of the same dates, the carrying value of other long-term liabilities approximated fair value as the related interest rates approximate rates currently available to j2 Global.

Property and Equipment

Property and equipment are stated at cost. Equipment under capital leases is stated at the present value of the minimum lease payments. Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. The estimated useful lives of property and equipment range from 1 to 10 years. Fixtures, which are comprised primarily of leasehold improvements and equipment under capital leases, are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives or for leasehold improvements, the related lease term, if less. The Company has capitalized certain internal use software and website development costs which are included in property and equipment. The estimated useful life of costs capitalized is evaluated for each specific project and ranges from 1 to 5 years.

Debt Issuance Costs and Debt Discount

j2 Global capitalizes costs incurred with borrowing and issuance of debt securities and records debt issuance costs and discounts as a reduction to the debt amount. These costs and discounts are amortized and included in interest expense over the life of the borrowing or term of the credit facility using the effective interest method.


Contingent Consideration

j2 Global measures the contingent earn-out liabilities in connection with acquisitions at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy (see Note 6 - Fair Value Measurements). The Company may use various valuation techniques depending on the terms and conditions of the contingent consideration including a Monte-Carlo simulation. This simulation uses a probability distribution for each significant input to produce hundreds or thousands of possible outcomes, and the results are analyzed to determine probabilities of different outcomes occurring. Significant increases or decreases to these inputs in isolation would result in a significantly higher or lower liability with a higher liability capped by the contractual maximum of the contingent earn-out obligation. Ultimately, the liability will be equivalent to the amount paid, and the difference between the fair value estimate and the amount paid will be recorded in earnings. The amount paid that is less than or equal to the liability on the acquisition date is reflected as cash used in financing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows. Any amount paid in excess of the liability on the acquisition date is reflected as cash used in operating activities.

j2 Global reviews and re-assesses the estimated fair value of contingent consideration on a quarterly basis, and the updated fair value could be materially different from the initial estimates or prior quarterly amounts. Changes in the estimated fair value of our contingent earn-out liabilities are reported in operating income, except for the time component of the present value calculation which is reported in interest expense. Adjustments to the estimated fair value related to changes in all other unobservable inputs are reported in operating income.

Self-Insurance Program

j2 Global is self-insured for certain subsidiaries providing health and dental insurance plans to its employees through a self-insurance structure. The Company has reinsurance which is a two tiered stop-loss coverage that limits the exposure arising from any claims made. Self-insurance claims filed and claims incurred but not reported are accrued based on management’s estimate of the discounted ultimate costs for self-insured claims incurred using actuarial assumptions followed in the insurance industry and historical experience. Although management believes it has the ability to reasonably estimate losses related to claims, it is possible that actual results could materially differ from recorded self-insurance liabilities.

Segment Reporting


Reclassifications

Certain prior year reported amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 2018 presentation.

2. Recent Accounting Pronouncements





•not reassess whether expired or existing contracts contain leases under the new definition of a lease;

•not reassess lease classification for expired or existing leases;

•not reassess whether previously capitalized initial direct costs would qualify for capitalization under Topic 842

•use hindsight in determining the lease term, assessing the likelihood that lessee renewal, termination or purchase option will be exercised; and

•use hindsight for lessees, in assessing the impairment of ROU assets.










years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2019. The Company is currently evaluating the effect of this ASU on our financial statements and related disclosures.


Digital Media

Digital Media revenues are earned primarily from the delivery of advertising services and from subscriptions to services and information. Payment is received in arrears by check or wire and includes terms aligned with the industry standard of 90 days or less.


Revenue from subscriptions is earned through the granting of access to, or delivery of, certain data products or services to customers. Subscriptions cover video games and related content, health information, data and other copyrighted material. Revenues under such agreements are recognized over the contract term for use of the service. Revenues are also earned from listing fees, subscriptions to online publications, and from other sources. Subscription revenues are recognized over time.

j2 Global also generates Digital Media revenues through the license of certain assets to clients. Assets are licensed for clients’ use in their own promotional materials or otherwise. Such assets may include logos, editorial reviews, or other copyrighted material. Revenues under such license agreements are recognized over the contract term for use of the asset. Technology assets are also licensed to clients. These assets are recognized over the term of the access period. The Digital Media business also generates other types of revenues, marketing and production services, and from other sources. Such other revenues are generally recognized over the period in which the products or services are delivered. Revenues are no longer generated in 2018 from certain marketing and production services as a result of the sale of certain Digital Media assets during 2017.

The Company records revenue on a gross basis with respect to revenue generated (i) by the Company serving online display and video advertising across its owned and operated web properties, on third-party sites or on unaffiliated advertising networks, (ii) through the Company’s lead-generation business and (iii) through the Company’s subscriptions. The Company records revenue on a net basis with respect to revenue paid to the Company by certain third-party advertising networks who serve online display and video advertising across the Company’s owned-and-operated web properties and certain third-party sites.

Cloud Services

The Company’s Cloud Services revenues substantially consist of monthly recurring subscription and usage-based fees, which are primarily paid in advance by credit card. The Company defers the portions of monthly, quarterly, semi-annually and annually recurring subscription and usage-based fees collected in advance of the satisfaction of performance obligations and recognizes them in the period earned. 

Along with our numerous proprietary Cloud Services solutions, the Company also generates revenues by reselling various third-party solutions, primarily through our email security and online backup lines of business. These third-party solutions, along with our proprietary products, allow the Company to offer customers a variety of solutions to better meet their needs. The Company records revenue on a gross basis with respect to reseller revenue because the Company has control of the specified good or service prior to transferring control to the customer. 

j2 Global’s Cloud Services also include patent license revenues generated under license agreements that provide for the payment of contractually determined fully paid-up or royalty-bearing license fees to j2 Global in exchange for the grant of non-exclusive, retroactive and future licenses to our intellectual property, including patented technology. Patent revenues may also consist of revenues generated from the sale of patents. Patent license arrangements are evaluated to determine if they grant the customer a right to access the Company’s intellectual property which is generally recognized over the life of the arrangement or a right to use the Company’s intellectual property which is generally recognized at the point in time the license is granted. With regard to royalty-bearing license arrangements, the Company recognizes revenues of license fees earned during the applicable period. With regard to patent sales, the Company recognizes revenue in the period of the sale the amount of the purchase price over the carrying value of the patent(s) sold.


The Cloud Services business also generates revenues by licensing certain technology to third parties. Generally, revenue is recognized over time as the third party uses the licensed technology over the period.










The Company has recorded $67.9 million of revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 which was previously included in the contract liability balance as of the adoption date. The prior quarter disclosure of $74.5 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 included $17.5 million of revenue recognized related to contract liabilities generated after the adoption date. As a result, such revenue is excluded from the disclosure for the nine months ended September 30, 2018.

As of September 30, 2018, the , the Company acquired $33.2 million of deferred revenue in connection with the Company’s business acquisitions (see Note 4 - Business Acquisitions) which are subject to any purchase accounting adjustments.


Performance Obligations

The Company’s contracts with customers may include multiple performance obligations. For such arrangements, revenues are allocated to each performance obligation based on its relative standalone selling price. 

The Company satisfies its performance obligations within the Digital Media segment upon delivery of services to its customers. Payments for these services are typically due shortly after they have been provided. In addition, the Company provides content to its advertising partners which the Company sells to its partners’ customer base and receives a revenue share based on the terms of the agreement. 

The Company satisfies its performance obligations within the Cloud Services segment upon delivery of services to its customers. Payment terms vary by type and location of our customers and the services offered. The term between invoicing and when payment is due is not significant. For certain services and customer types, we require payment before services are delivered to the customer. Due to the nature of the services provided, there are no obligations for returns.

Significant Judgments

In determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately versus together may require significant judgment. Judgment is also required to determine the standalone selling price for each distinct performance obligation. 

Performance Obligations Satisfied Over Time


Advertising

•Website reporting by the Company, the customer, or a third-party contains the delivery evidence needed to satisfy the performance obligations within the advertising contract


•Commission is evidenced by direct site reporting from the affiliate or via direct confirmation from the customer

Subscription

•Evidence of delivery is contained in the Company’s systems or from correspondence with the customer which tracks when a customer accepts delivery of any assets, digital keys or download links

The Company has concluded revenue is recognized based on delivery of services over the contract period for advertising and on a straight-line basis over the contract period for subscriptions. The Company believes that the methods described are a faithful depiction of the transfer of goods and services.


•Faxing capabilities are provided

•Voice services are delivered

•Email marketing services are delivered

•Security solutions, including email and endpoint are provided

•Online data backup capabilities are provided


The Company has concluded that the best measure of progress toward the complete satisfaction of the performance obligation over time is a time-based measure. The Company recognizes revenue on a straight-line basis throughout the subscription period and believes that the method used is a faithful depiction of the transfer of goods and services. 

Performance Obligations Satisfied at a Point in Time

The Company’s Digital Media segment has technology subscriptions that have standalone functionality. As a result, they are considered to be functional intellectual property where the performance obligations are satisfied at a point in time. This is evidenced once a digital key is delivered to the customer. Once the key is delivered to the customer, the customer has full control of the technology and the Company has no further performance obligations. The Company has concluded that revenue is recognized once the digital key is delivered. The Company believes that this method is a faithful depiction of the transfer of goods and services.

Practical Expedients

Existence of a Significant Financing Component in a Contract

As a practical expedient, the Company has not assessed whether a contract has a significant financing component because the Company expects at contract inception that the period between payment by the customer and the transfer of promised goods or services by the Company to the customer will be one year or less. In addition, the Company has determined that the payment terms that the Company provides to its customers are structured primarily for reasons other than the provision of finance to the Company. The Company typically charges a single upfront amount for the services because other payment terms would affect the nature of the risk assumed by the Company to provide service given the costs of the customer acquisition and the highly competitive and commoditized nature of the business we operate which allows customers to easily move from one provider to another. This additional risk may make it uneconomical to provide the service.

Costs to Fulfill a Contract

The Company’s revenues are primarily generated from customer contracts that are for one year or less. Costs primarily consist of incentive compensation paid based on the achievements of sales targets in a given period for related revenue streams and are recognized in the month when the revenue is earned. Incentive compensation is paid on renewal of the customer contract. As a practical expedient, for amortization periods which are determined to be one year or less, the Company expenses any incremental costs of obtaining the contract with a customer when incurred. For those customer contracts greater than one year, the Company capitalizes and amortizes the expenses over the period of benefit. 


The Company uses acquisitions as a strategy to grow its customer base by increasing its presence in new and existing markets, expand and diversify its service offerings, enhance its technology, acquire skilled personnel and enter into other jurisdictions.


The condensed consolidated statement of income since the date of each acquisition and balance sheet as of September 30, 2018, reflect the results of operations of all 2018 acquisitions. For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, these acquisitions contributed $26.1 million to the Company’s revenues. Net income contributed by these acquisitions was not separately identifiable due to j2 Global’s integration activities and is impracticable to provide. Total consideration for these transactions was $197.8 million, net of cash acquired and assumed liabilities and is subject to certain post-closing adjustments which may increase or decrease the final consideration paid.






During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Company recorded adjustments to prior period acquisitions due to the finalization of purchase accounting in the Cloud Services segment which resulted in a net decrease in goodwill of $1.0 million. In addition, the Company recorded adjustments to the initial working capital related to prior period acquisitions in the Digital Media segment, which resulted in a net decrease in goodwill of $0.3 million. Such adjustments had an immaterial impact on the amortization expense within the condensed consolidated statement of income for the nine months ended September 30, 2018.

Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and represents intangible assets that do not qualify for separate recognition. Goodwill recognized associated with these acquisitions during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 is $126.8 million, of which $38.3 million is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.



Investments consist of certificates of deposits, equity and debt securities. 

The Company has adopted ASU 2016-01 during the first quarter 2018 (see Note 2 - Recent Accounting Pronouncements) and determined that the equity securities that were received as part of the consideration for the sale of Tea Leaves Health, LLC (“Tea Leaves”) in fiscal year 2017 are without a readily determinable fair value because these securities are privately held, not traded on any public exchanges and not an investment in a mutual fund or similar investment. As a result, management has elected to alternatively measure this investment at cost, less impairment, adjusted for subsequent observable price changes to estimate fair value. The Company will make a “reasonable effort” to identify any observable price changes for identical or similar investments with the issuer that are known are can be reasonably known. The adoption of ASU 2016-01 was done on a prospective basis and any changes in the carrying value of the equity securities will be reported in our current earnings as Other expense (income), net. In addition, the Company determined that the shares of redeemable preferred stock that were also received as part of the consideration for the sale of Tea Leaves are corporate debt securities and are classified as available-for-sale securities. 



During the first nine months of 2018, the Company recorded an unrealized loss to earnings because an observable price for a similar instrument was observed in the market at an amount that was below the original carrying price of the investment (see Note 6 - Fair Value Measurements).



At September 30, 2018, the Company’s available-for-sale securities are carried at fair value, with the unrealized gains and losses reported as a component of stockholders’ equity.




Recognition and Measurement of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment

Regardless of the classification of the securities as available-for-sale or held-to-maturity, the Company has assessed each position for impairment. j2 Global regularly reviews and evaluates each investment that has an unrealized loss. An unrealized loss exists when the current fair value of an individual security is less than its amortized cost basis. Unrealized losses that are determined to be temporary in nature are recorded, net of tax, in accumulated other comprehensive income for available-for-sale securities.


•the length of time and the extent to which fair value has been below cost;

•the severity of the impairment;

•the cause of the impairment and the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer;

•activity in the market of the issuer which may indicate adverse credit conditions; and

•the Company’s ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery.


•identification and evaluation of investments that have indications of possible impairment;

•analysis of individual investments that have fair values less than amortized cost, including consideration of the length of time the investment has been in an unrealized loss position and the expected recovery period;

•discussion of evidential matter, including an evaluation of factors or triggers that could cause individual investments to qualify as having an other-than-temporary impairment and those that would not support an other-than-temporary impairment;

•documentation of the results of these analyses, as required under business policies; and

•information provided by third-party valuation experts.

For these securities, a critical component of the evaluation for other-than-temporary impairments is the identification of credit impairment, where management does not expect to receive cash flows sufficient to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security. Credit impairment is assessed using a combination of a discounted cash flow model that estimates the cash flows on the underlying securities and a market comparable method, where the security is valued based upon indications from the secondary market of what discounts buyers demand when purchasing similar securities. The cash flow model incorporates actual cash flows from the securities through the current period and then projects the remaining cash flows using relevant interest rate curves over the remaining term. These cash flows are discounted using a number of assumptions, some of which include prevailing implied credit risk premiums, incremental credit spreads and illiquidity risk premiums, among others.

Securities that have been identified as other-than-temporarily impaired are written down to their current fair value. For debt securities that are intended to be sold or that management believes it more-likely-than-not that it will be required to sell prior to recovery, the full impairment is recognized immediately in earnings.

For available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities that management has no intent to sell and believes that it more-likely-than-not that it will not be required to sell prior to recovery, only the credit loss component of the impairment is recognized in earnings, while the rest of the fair value impairment is recognized in other comprehensive income. The credit loss component recognized in earnings is identified as the amount of principal cash flows not expected to be received over the remaining term of the security.




As of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, we did not recognize any other-than-temporary impairment losses.

On September 25, 2017, the Company entered into a commitment to invest $200 million (approximately 66.7% of equity) in the OCV Fund. The total expected commitment to the OCV Fund is expected to be approximately $300 million. The primary purpose of the Fund is to provide a limited number of select investors with the opportunity to realize long-term appreciation from public and private companies, with a particular focus on the technology and life science industries. The general activities of the OCV Fund is to buy, sell, hold and otherwise invest in securities of every kind and nature and rights and options with respect thereto, including, without limitation, stock, notes, bonds, debentures and evidence of indebtedness; to exercise all rights, powers, privileges and other incidents of ownership or possession with respect to securities held or owned by the OCV Fund; to enter into, make and perform all contracts and other undertakings; and to engage in all activities and transactions as may be necessary, advisable or desirable to carry out the foregoing.

The manager and general partner of the Fund are entities with respect to which Richard S. Ressler, Chairman of the Board of Directors (the “Board”) of the Company, is indirectly the majority equity holder and a related party. As a limited partner in the Fund, the Company will pay an annual management fee to the manager equal to 2.0% (reduced by 10% each year beginning with the sixth year) of capital commitments. In addition, subject to the terms and conditions of the Fund’s limited partnership agreement, once the Company has received distributions equal to its invested capital, the Fund’s general partner would be entitled to a carried interest equal to 20%. The Fund has a six year investment period, subject to certain exceptions. The commitment was approved by the Audit Committee of the Board in accordance with the Company’s related-party transaction approval policy.

During 2018, the Company received capital call notices from the management of OCV Management, LLC. for $35.8 million, inclusive of certain management fees, of which $34.8 million has been paid for the nine months ended September 30, 2018. 

The Company recognizes its equity in the net earnings or losses relating to the investment in OCV on a one-quarter lag due to the timing and availability of financial information from OCV. If the Company becomes aware of a significant decline in value, the loss will be recorded in the period in which the Company identifies the decline.

During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Company recognized an investment loss of $0.6 million and $3.6 million, net of tax benefit, respectively. The loss is presented in the Company’s condensed consolidated statement of income as loss from equity investments, net.




As a limited partner, the Company’s maximum exposure to loss is $29.8 million and is limited to its proportional ownership in the partnership. In addition, the Company’s is not required to contribute capital in an aggregate amount in excess of its capital commitment and any expected losses will not be in excess of the Capital Account. Finally, there are no call or put options, or other types of arrangements, which limit the Company’s ability to participate in losses and returns of the Fund.



 lLevel 1 – Observable inputs that reflect quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets.

 lLevel 2 – Observable inputs other than quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in inactive markets, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.

 lLevel 3 – Unobservable inputs which are supported by little or no market activity.

The fair value hierarchy also requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value.

The Company’s money market funds are classified within Level 1. The Company values these Level 1 investments using quoted market prices. 

The Company’s debt securities are classified within Level 2. The Company values these Level 2 investments based on model-driven valuations using significant inputs derived from or corroborated by observable market data.

The fair value of our senior notes is determined using quoted market prices or dealer quotes for instruments with similar maturities and other terms and credit ratings, which are Level 2 inputs. The fair value of long-term debt at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 was $1.2 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively (see Note 8 - Long-Term Debt).

In addition, the Convertible Notes contain terms that may require the Company to pay contingent interest on the Convertible Notes which is accounted for as a derivative with fair value adjustments being recorded to interest expense (see Note 8 - Long Term Debt). This derivative is fair valued using a binomial lattice convertible bond pricing model using historical and implied market information, which are Level 2 inputs.

The Company classifies its contingent consideration liability in connection with acquisitions within Level 3 because factors used to develop the estimated fair value are unobservable inputs, such as volatility and market risks, and are not supported by market activity. The fair value of the contingent consideration liability was determined using option based approaches. This methodology was utilized because the distribution of payments is not symmetric and amounts are only payable upon certain earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”) thresholds being reached. Such valuation approach included a Monte-Carlo simulation for the contingency since the financial metric driving the payments is path dependent. Significant increases or decreases in either of the inputs noted above in isolation would result in a significantly lower or higher fair value measurement.




At the end of each reporting period, management reviews the inputs to the fair value measurements of financial and non-financial assets and liabilities to determine when transfers between levels are deemed to have occurred. For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, there were no transfers that have occurred between levels.






In connection with the acquisition of Humble Bundle, on October 13, 2017, contingent consideration of up to an aggregate of $40.0 million may be payable upon achieving certain future EBITDA thresholds and had a fair value of $34.1 million and $19.7 million at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.

In connection with the acquisition of blackfriday.com, on November 7, 2017, the Company achieved certain earnings targets and, as a result, contingent consideration of $0.8 million was paid to the seller during the first quarter 2018 in connection with this acquisition.

In connection with the acquisition of Mosaik Solutions, on June 18, 2018, contingent consideration of up to an aggregate of $1.0 million may be payable upon achieving certain income thresholds and had a fair value of $0.8 million at September 30, 2018.

In connection with the acquisition of bestblackfriday.com, on July 13, 2018, contingent consideration of up to an aggregate of $2.0 million may be payable upon achieving a certain number of visitors and had a fair value of $2.0 million at September 30, 2018.

In connection with the acquisition of DemandShore, on July 19, 2018, contingent consideration of up to an aggregate of $1.9 million may be payable upon achieving certain future EBITDA and revenue thresholds and had a fair value of $1.3 million at September 30, 2018.

In connection with the acquisition of DownDetector, on August 9, 2018, contingent consideration of up to an aggregate of $3.7 million may be payable upon achieving certain number of average monthly unique visitors thresholds and had a fair value of $2.9 million at September 30, 2018.

During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Company recorded an increase in the fair value of the contingent consideration of $14.4 million and reported such increase in general and administrative expenses.

7.Goodwill and Intangible Assets

Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired in a business combination. Intangible assets resulting from the acquisitions of entities accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting are recorded at the estimated fair value of the assets acquired. Identifiable intangible assets are comprised of purchased customer relationships, trademarks and trade names, developed technologies and other intangible assets. The fair values of these identified intangible assets are based upon expected future cash flows or income, which take into consideration certain assumptions such as customer turnover, trade names and patent lives. These determinations are primarily based upon the Company’s historical experience and expected benefit of each intangible asset. If it is determined that such assumptions are not accurate, then the resulting change will impact the fair value of the intangible asset. Identifiable intangible assets are amortized over the period of estimated economic benefit, which ranges from one to 20 years. 















Amortization expense, included in general and administrative expense, approximated $35.8 million and $31.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $102.7 million and $94.3 million for the nine month periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Amortization expense is estimated to approximate $204.4 million, $93.5 million, $59.2 million, $45.1 million and $36.2 million for fiscal years 2018 through 2022, respectively, and $129.7 million thereafter through the duration of the amortization period.




On June 27, 2017, j2 Cloud Services, LLC (“j2 Cloud”) and j2 Cloud Co-Obligor (the “Co-Issuer” and together with j2 Cloud, the “Issuers”), wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company, completed the issuance and sale of $650 million aggregate principal amount of their 6.0% senior notes due in 2025 (the “6.0% Senior Notes”) in a private placement offering exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933. The 6.0% Senior Notes are presented as long-term debt, net of deferred issuance costs, on the condensed consolidated balance sheets as of September 30, 2018. 

The 6.0% Senior Notes bear interest at a rate of 6.0% per annum, payable semi-annually in arrears on January 15 and July 15 of each year, commencing on January 15, 2018. The 6.0% Senior Notes mature on July 15, 2025, and are senior unsecured obligations of the Issuers and are guaranteed on an unsecured basis by certain subsidiaries of j2 Cloud (as defined in the Indenture agreement dated June 27, 2017, the “Indenture”). If j2 Cloud or any of its restricted subsidiaries acquires or creates a domestic restricted subsidiary, other than an insignificant subsidiary (as defined in the Indenture), after the issue date, or any insignificant subsidiary ceases to fit within the definition of insignificant subsidiary, such restricted subsidiary is required to unconditionally guarantee, jointly and severally, on an unsecured basis, the Issuers’ obligations under the 6.0% Senior Notes.

The Issuers may redeem some or all of the 6.0% Senior Notes at any time on or after July 15, 2020 at specified redemption prices plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but excluding the redemption date. Before July 15, 2020, in connection with certain equity offerings, the Issuers also may redeem up to 35% of the 6.0% Senior Notes at a price equal to 106.0% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but excluding the redemption date. In addition, at any time prior to July 15, 2020, the Issuers may redeem some or all of the 6.0% Senior Notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the redemption date, plus an applicable “make-whole” premium.

The Indenture contains certain restrictive and other covenants applicable to j2 Cloud and subsidiaries designated as restricted subsidiaries including, but not limited to, restrictions on (i) paying dividends or making distributions on j2 Cloud’s membership interests or repurchasing j2 Cloud’s membership interests; (ii) making certain restricted payments; (iii) creating liens or entering into sale and leaseback transactions; (iv) entering into transactions with affiliates; (v) merging or consolidating with another company; and (vi) transferring and selling assets. These covenants include certain exceptions. Violation of these covenants could result in a default which could result in the acceleration of outstanding amounts if such default is not cured or waived within the time periods outlined in the Indenture. Restricted payments, specifically dividend payments, are applicable only if j2 Cloud and subsidiaries designated as restricted subsidiaries has a leverage ratio of greater than 3.0 to 1.0. In addition, if such leverage ratio is in excess of 3.0 to 1.0, the restriction on restricted payments is subject to various exceptions, including an exception for the payment of restricted payments up to $75 million. These contractual provisions did not, as of September 30, 2018, restrict j2 Cloud’s ability to pay dividends to j2 Global, Inc. The company is in compliance with its debt covenants as of September 30, 2018.

As of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the estimated fair value of the 6.0% Senior Notes was approximately $669.5 million and $684.1 million, respectively, and was based on the quoted market prices of debt instruments with similar terms, credit rating and maturities of the 6.0% Senior Notes which are Level 2 inputs (see Note 6 - Fair Value Measurements).


On June 10, 2014, j2 Global issued $402.5 million aggregate principal amount of 3.25% convertible senior notes due June 15, 2029 (the “Convertible Notes”). The Convertible Notes bear interest at a rate of 3.25% per annum, payable semiannually in arrears on June 15 and December 15 of each year. Beginning with the six-month interest period commencing on June 15, 2021, the Company must pay contingent interest on the Convertible Notes during any six-month interest period if the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of the Convertible Notes for each of the five trading days immediately preceding the first day of such interest period equals or exceeds $1,300. Any contingent interest payable on the Convertible Notes will be in addition to the regular interest payable on the Convertible Notes.



As of September 30, 2018, the conversion rate is 14.6680 shares of j2 Global common stock for each $1,000 principal amount of Convertible Notes, which represents a conversion price of approximately $68.18 per share of j2 Global common stock. The conversion rate is subject to adjustment for certain events as set forth in the indenture governing the Convertible Notes, but will not be adjusted for accrued interest. In addition, following certain corporate events that occur on or prior to June 20, 2021, j2 Global will increase the conversion rate for a holder that elects to convert its Convertible Notes in connection with such a corporate event.

j2 Global may not redeem the Convertible Notes prior to June 20, 2021. On or after June 20, 2021, j2 Global may redeem for cash all or part of the Convertible Notes at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes to be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the redemption date. No sinking fund is provided for the Convertible Notes.

Holders have the right to require j2 Global to repurchase for cash all or part of their Convertible Notes on each of June 15, 2021 and June 15, 2024 at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the relevant repurchase date. In addition, if a fundamental change, as defined in the indenture governing the Convertible Notes, occurs prior to the maturity date, holders may require j2 Global to repurchase for cash all or part of their Convertible Notes at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the fundamental change repurchase date.


Accounting for the Convertible Notes

In accordance with ASC 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options, convertible debt that can be settled for cash is required to be separated into the liability and equity component at issuance, with each component assigned a value. The value assigned to the liability component is the estimated fair value, as of the issuance date, of similar debt without the conversion feature. The difference between the cash proceeds and estimated fair value of the liability component, representing the value of the conversion premium assigned to the equity component, is recorded as a debt discount on the issuance date. This debt discount is amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over the period from the issuance date through the first stated repurchase date on June 15, 2021.

j2 Global estimated the borrowing rates of similar debt without the conversion feature at origination to be 5.79% for the Convertible Notes and determined the debt discount to be $59.0 million. As a result, a conversion premium after tax of $37.7 million was recorded in additional paid-in capital. The aggregate debt discount is amortized as interest expense over the period from the issuance date through the first stated repurchase date on June 15, 2021, which management believes is the expected life of the Convertible Notes using an interest rate of 5.81%. As of September 30, 2018, the remaining period over which the unamortized debt discount will be amortized is 2.7 years.


The Convertible Notes are carried at face value less any unamortized debt discount and debt issuance costs. The fair value of the Convertible Notes at each balance sheet date is determined based on recent quoted market prices or dealer quotes for the Convertible Notes, which are Level 1 inputs (see Note 6 - Fair Value Measurements). If such information is not available, the fair value is determined using cash-flow models of the scheduled payments discounted at market interest rates for comparable debt without the conversion feature. As of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the estimated fair value of the Convertible Notes was approximately $525.3 million and $504.5 million, respectively.




Litigation

From time to time, j2 Global and its affiliates are involved in litigation and other legal disputes or regulatory inquiries that arise in the ordinary course of business. Any claims or regulatory actions against j2 Global and its affiliates, whether meritorious or not, could be time consuming and costly, and could divert significant operational resources. The outcomes of such matters are subject to inherent uncertainties, carrying the potential for unfavorable rulings that could include monetary damages and injunctive relief.

On February 17, 2011, Emmanuel Pantelakis (“Pantelakis”) filed suit against a j2 Global affiliate in the Ontario Superior Court of Justice (No. 11-50673), alleging that the j2 Global affiliate breached a contract relating to Pantelakis’s use of the Campaigner service. The j2 Global affiliate filed a responsive pleading on March 23, 2011 and responses to undertakings on July 16, 2012. On November 6, 2012, Pantelakis filed a second amended statement of claim, reframing his lawsuit as a negligence action. The j2 Global affiliate filed an amended statement of defense on April 8, 2013. Discovery has closed. A judicial pre-trial conference took place on September 27, 2018. There is an anticipated trial date of January 2020.

On January 17, 2013, the Commissioner of the Massachusetts Department of Revenue (“Commissioner”) issued a notice of assessment to a j2 Global affiliate for sales and use tax for the period of July 1, 2003 through December 31, 2011. On July 22, 2014, the Commissioner denied the j2 Global affiliate’s application for abatement. On September 18, 2014, the j2 Global affiliate petitioned the Massachusetts Appellate Tax Board for abatement of the tax asserted in the notice of assessment (No. C325426). A trial was held on December 16, 2015. On May 18, 2017, the Appellate Board decided in favor of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. The j2 Global affiliate has requested the findings of fact and conclusions of law from the Appellate Board.


j2 Global does not believe, based on current knowledge, that the foregoing legal proceedings or claims, after giving effect to existing reserves, are likely to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. However, depending on the amount and timing, an unfavorable resolution of some or all of these matters could have a material effect on j2 Global’s consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows in a particular period. 


The Company has not accrued for any material loss contingencies relating to these legal proceedings because materially unfavorable outcomes are not considered probable by management. It is the Company’s policy to expense as incurred legal fees related to various litigations.

Non-Income Related Taxes

The Company does not collect and remit sales and use, telecommunication, or similar taxes and fees in jurisdictions where the Company believes such taxes are not applicable or legally required. Several states and other taxing jurisdictions have presented or threatened the Company with assessments, alleging that the Company is required to collect and remit such taxes there. The aggregate assessments at September 30, 2018 were not material.

The June 2018 U.S. Supreme Court ruling in South Dakota v. Wayfair, Inc., No. 17-494, along with the application of existing, new or future rulings and laws could have adverse effects on our business, prospects and operating results. There have been, and will continue to be, substantial ongoing costs associated with complying with the various indirect tax requirements in the numerous markets in which we conduct or will conduct business. 

The Company is currently under audit or is subject to audit for indirect taxes in several states and municipalities. The Company has a $4.6 million reserve established for these matters. It is reasonably possible that additional liabilities could be incurred resulting in additional expense, which could have a material impact our financial results.


The Company’s tax provision for interim periods is determined using an estimate of the Company’s annual effective tax rate adjusted for discrete interim period tax impacts. Each quarter the Company updates its estimated annual effective tax rate and, if the estimate changes, makes a cumulative adjustment. The Company’s effective tax rate was 22.9% and 22.1% for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and 22.2% and 23.7% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Income before income taxes included income from domestic operations of $4.3 million and $13.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and income from foreign operations of $100.7 million and $103.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.

The 2017 Tax Act was enacted on December 22, 2017. The 2017 Tax Act includes a number of changes to the Internal Revenue Code including a one-time transition tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of cumulative undistributed foreign earnings and a permanent reduction in the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate from 35% to 21%, effective on January 1, 2018. The 2017 Tax Act also created a new requirement that certain income (i.e. Global Intangible Low Taxed Income (“GILTI”)) earned by foreign subsidiaries must be included currently in the gross income of the U.S. shareholder. Consistent with guidance issued by SAB 118, the Company recorded provisional estimates for the income tax effects of the 2017 Tax Act in December 31, 2017. In addition, SAB 118 provides for a measurement period of one year from the enactment date to finalize the accounting for effects of the 2017 Tax Act. The Company continues to analyze the impacts of the 2017 Tax Act and refine calculations.

The Company is required to record deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the enacted tax rates at which they are expected to reverse in the future. Therefore, any U.S. related deferred taxes were re-measured from 35% down to 21% based on the recorded balances as of December 31, 2017. The analysis included a preliminary assessment on the deductibility of certain amounts for which deferred tax assets may have been recorded. As of December 31, 2017, the Company recorded an estimated tax benefit of approximately $33.3 million. As of September 30, 2018, the Company has not adjusted its provisional estimate related to re-measurement of its deferred tax balances. 


The Company was unable to determine a reasonable estimate of the remaining tax liability, if any, under the 2017 Tax Act for its remaining outside basis differences or evaluate how the 2017 Tax Act will affect the Company’s existing accounting position to indefinitely reinvest unremitted foreign earnings. Therefore, the Company did not include a provisional amount for this item in its financial statements for fiscal 2017. As of September 30, 2018, the Company continues to review the amount of tax due, if any, on differences in tax basis and the accounting position related to indefinite reinvestment of foreign earnings. 


The Company is subject to a territorial tax system under the 2017 Tax Act, in which it is required to provide for tax on GILTI earned by certain foreign subsidiaries. Additionally, the Company is required to make an accounting policy election to either recognize deferred taxes for temporary basis differences expected to reverse as GILTI in future years or provide for the tax expense related to GILTI in the year the tax is incurred as a period expense. As of September 30, 2018, the Company is still evaluating the effects of the GILTI provisions as guidance and interpretations continue to emerge. Therefore, the Company has not determined its accounting policy on the GILTI provisions. However, the standard requires that the Company reflect the impact of the GILTI provisions as a period expense until the accounting policy is finalized. Therefore, the Company has included the provisional estimate of GILTI related to current-year operations in its estimated annual effective tax rate only and will be updating the impact and accounting policy as the analysis related to the GILTI provisions is completed.

As of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the Company had $55.7 million and $52.2 million, respectively, in liabilities for uncertain income tax positions. Accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits are recognized in income tax expense on the Company’s consolidated statement of income.

Cash paid for income taxes net of refunds received was $21.9 million and $46.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.

Certain taxes are prepaid during the year and, where appropriate, included within prepaid expenses and other current assets on the consolidated balance sheet. The Company’s prepaid taxes were zero and $6.0 million at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.


The Company is in various stages of audit by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) for its 2012 through 2016 tax years. 

j2 Global is under income tax audit by the California Franchise Tax Board (the “FTB”) for its tax years 2012 and 2013. The FTB, however, has agreed to suspend its audit for 2012 and 2013 pending the outcome of the IRS audit for such tax years. In August 2018, the FTB notified the Company that it will commence an audit of tax years 2015 and 2016. 

The Company is under income tax audit by the New York State Department of Taxation and Finance (“NYS”) for tax years 2011 through 2014. 

The Company was under income tax audit by the Massachusetts Department of Revenue (“MA”) for tax years 2014 and 2015. In September 2018, MA concluded its audit of tax years 2014 and 2015. The Company was assessed an insignificant amount of income tax and interest, which was paid.

The Company was under audit by the Georgia Department of Revenue (“Georgia DOR”) for tax years 2014 through 2016. In June 2018, the Georgia DOR concluded its audit of tax years 2014 through 2016. The Company was assessed an insignificant amount of income tax and interest, which was paid.

The Company is currently under audit by the French tax authorities for tax years 2011 to 2016. 

It is reasonably possible that these audits may conclude in the next 12 months and that the uncertain tax positions the Company has recorded in relation to these tax years may change compared to the liabilities recorded for these periods. If the recorded uncertain tax positions are inadequate to cover the associated tax liabilities, the Company would be required to record additional tax expense in the relevant period, which could be material. If the recorded uncertain tax positions are adequate to cover the associated tax liabilities, the Company would be required to record any excess as a reduction in tax expense in the relevant period, which could be material. However, it is not currently possible to estimate the amount, if any, of such change.


Common Stock Repurchase Program

In February 2012, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a program authorizing the repurchase of up to five million shares of our common stock through February 20, 2013 (the “2012 Program”) which was subsequently extended through February 19, 2019. 


In July 2016, the Company acquired and subsequently retired 935,231 shares of j2 Global common stock in connection with the acquisition of Integrated Global Concepts, Inc. As a result of the purchase of j2 Global common stock, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a reduction in the number of shares available for purchase under the 2012 Program by the same amount leaving 1,938,689 shares of j2 Global common stock available for purchase under this program. During the nine month period ended September 30, 2018, we repurchased zero shares under this program. Cumulatively at September 30, 2018, 2.1 million shares were repurchased at an aggregate cost of $58.6 million (including an immaterial amount of commission fees).

Periodically, participants in j2 Global’s stock plans surrender to the Company shares of j2 Global stock to pay the exercise price or to satisfy tax withholding obligations arising upon the exercise of stock options or the vesting of restricted stock. During the three month period ended September 30, 2018, the Company purchased 9,509 shares from plan participants for this purpose.

Dividends



Future dividends are subject to Board approval.

12.Stock Options and Employee Stock Purchase Plan

j2 Global’s share-based compensation plans include the 2007 Stock Plan (the “2007 Plan”), 2015 Stock Option Plan (the “2015 Plan”) and 2001 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the “Purchase Plan”). Each plan is described below.

The 2007 Plan provides for the granting of incentive stock options, nonqualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units and other share-based awards. 4,500,000 shares of j2 Global common stock are authorized to be used for 2007 Plan purposes. Options under the 2007 Plan may be granted at exercise prices determined by the Board of Directors, provided that the exercise prices shall not be less than the fair market value of j2 Global’s common stock on the date of grant for incentive stock options and not less than 85% of the fair market value of j2 Global’s common stock on the date of grant for non-statutory stock options. As of September 30, 2018, 250,577 shares underlying options and 6,460 shares of restricted units were outstanding under the 2007 Plan. The 2007 Plan terminated on February 14, 2017.

The 2015 Plan provides for the granting of incentive stock options, nonqualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance shares, performance share units and other share-based awards and is intended as a successor plan to the 2007 Stock Plan since no further grants will be made under the 2007 Stock Plan. 4,200,000 shares of j2 Global common stock are authorized to be used for 2015 Plan purposes. Options under the 2015 Plan may be granted at exercise prices determined by the Board of Directors, provided that the exercise prices shall not be less than the higher of the par value or 100% of the fair market value of j2 Global’s common stock subject to the option on the date the option is granted. As of September 30, 2018, 462,000 shares underlying options and 36,751 shares of restricted stock units were outstanding under the 2015 Plan.

All stock option grants are approved by “outside directors” within the meaning of Internal Revenue Code Section 162(m).


Stock Options



The total intrinsic values of options exercised during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 were $3.6 million and $2.1 million, respectively.

The Company recognized $0.2 million and $40,000 of compensation expense related to stock options for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $0.7 million and $0.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. As of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, unrecognized stock compensation related to non-vested stock options granted under each of the share-based compensation plans approximated $7.1 million and $0.2 million, respectively. Unrecognized stock compensation expense related to non-vested stock options granted under these plans is expected to be recognized ratably over a weighted-average period of 7.1 years (i.e., the remaining requisite service period).

Fair Value Disclosure

j2 Global uses the Black-Scholes option pricing model to calculate the fair value of each option grant. The expected volatility is based on historical volatility of the Company’s common stock. The Company estimates the expected term based upon the historical exercise behavior of our employees. The risk-free interest rate is based on U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issues with a term equal to the expected term of the option assumed at the date of grant. The Company uses an annualized dividend yield based upon the per share dividends declared by its Board of Directors. Estimated forfeiture rates were 11.71% and 14.07% as of September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.

 Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units

j2 Global has awarded restricted stock and restricted stock units to its Board of Directors and senior staff pursuant to certain share-based compensation plans. Compensation expense resulting from restricted stock and restricted unit grants is measured at fair value on the date of grant and is recognized as share-based compensation expense over the applicable vesting period. Vesting periods are approximately one year for awards to members of the Company’s Board of Directors, five years for senior staff (excluding market-based awards discussed below) and eight years for the Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”). 


Restricted Stock - Awards with Market Conditions

j2 Global has awarded certain key employees market-based restricted stock awards pursuant to the 2015 Plan. The market-based awards have vesting conditions that are based on specified stock price targets of the Company’s common stock. Market conditions were factored into the grant date fair value using a Monte Carlo valuation model, which utilized multiple input variables to determine the probability of the Company achieving the specified stock price targets with a 20-day and 30-day lookback (trading days). Stock-based compensation expense related to an award with a market condition will be recognized over the requisite service period using the graded-vesting method regardless of whether the market condition is satisfied, provided that the requisite service period has been completed. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, the Company awarded 473,501 and 85,825 market-based restricted stock awards, respectively. The per share weighted average grant-date fair values of the market-based restricted stock awards granted during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 were $52.95 and $72.20, respectively.







The Company recognized $7.5 million and $4.4 million of compensation expense related to restricted stock and restricted stock units for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $20.2 million and $13.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. As of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the Company had unrecognized share-based compensation cost of approximately $67.6 million and $36.6 million, respectively, associated with these awards. This cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 5.7 years for awards and 3.4 years for units.


Employee Stock Purchase Plan

The Purchase Plan provides for the issuance of a maximum of two million shares of the Company’s common stock. Under the Purchase Plan, eligible employees can have up to 15% of their earnings withheld, up to certain maximums, to be used to purchase shares of j2 Global common stock at certain plan-defined dates. The price of the j2 Global common stock purchased under the Purchase Plan for the offering periods is equal to 95% of the fair market value of the j2 Global common stock at the end of the offering period. On February 2, 2018, the Company approved an amendment to the Company’s Amended and Restated 2001 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, to be effective May 1, 2018, such that (i) the purchase price for each offering period shall be 85% of the lesser of the fair market value of a share of common stock of the Company (a “Share”) on the beginning or the end of the offering period, rather than 95% of the fair market value of a Share at the end of the offering period, and (ii) each offering period will be six months, rather than three months.

j2 Global performed an analysis of the Amendment terms and determined that a plan provision exists which allows for the more favorable of two exercise prices, commonly referred to as a “look-back” feature. The purchase price discount and the look-back feature cause the Purchase Plan to be compensatory and the Company to recognize compensation expense. The compensation cost is recognized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period. The Company used the Black-Scholes option pricing model to calculate the estimated fair value of the purchase right issued under the ESPP. The expected volatility is based on historical volatility of the Company’s common stock. The risk-free interest rate is based on U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issues with a term equal to the expected term of the option assumed at the date of grant. The Company uses an annualized dividend yield based upon the per share dividends declared by its Board of Directors. Estimated forfeiture rates were 0.10% as of September 30, 2018.

For the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, 1,781 and 2,373 shares were purchased under the Purchase Plan, respectively. Cash received upon the issuance of j2 Global common stock under the Purchase Plan was $135,000 and $194,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. As of September 30, 2018, 1,621,462 shares were available under the Purchase Plan for future issuance.

The Company recognized $0.3 million and zero of compensation expense related to the Purchase Plan for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $0.4 million and zero of compensation expense related to the Purchase Plan for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.









For the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, there were zero options outstanding, respectively, which were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share because the exercise prices were greater than the average market price of the common stock. For the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, there were zero options outstanding, respectively, which were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share because the exercise prices were greater than the average market price of the common stock. 



The Company’s Cloud Services segment is driven primarily by subscription revenues that are relatively higher margin, stable and predictable from quarter to quarter with some seasonal weakness in the fourth quarter. The Cloud Services segment also includes the results of our IP licensing business, which can vary dramatically in both revenues and profitability from period to period. The Company’s Digital Media segment is driven primarily by advertising revenues, has relatively higher sales and marketing expense and has seasonal strength in the fourth quarter. 

The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in Note 1 - Basis of Presentation. The Company evaluates performance based on gross margin and profit or loss from operations before income taxes, not including nonrecurring gains and losses and foreign exchange gains and losses.






j2 Global maintains operations in the U.S., Canada, Ireland, Japan and other countries. Geographic information about the U.S. and all other countries for the reporting periods is presented below. Such information attributes revenues based on jurisdictions where revenues are reported (in thousands).




15.Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income






On October 10, 2018, in a cash transaction, the Company acquired through a share purchase all the issued capital of Ekahau Inc., a Virginia-based provider in solutions for enterprise Wi-Fi network design, troubleshooting and optimization.

On October 29, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a quarterly cash dividend of $0.4350 per share of j2 Global common stock payable on December 5, 2018 to all stockholders of record as of the close of business on November 19, 2018.


Item 2.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Forward-Looking Information

In addition to historical information, we have also made forward-looking statements in this report. These statements are based on our estimates and assumptions and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements include the information concerning our possible or assumed future results of operations. Forward-looking statements also include those preceded or followed by the words “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “hopes” or similar expressions. For those statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of many factors, including but not limited to those discussed below, the risk factors discussed in Part II, Item 1A - “Risk Factors” of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (if any) and in Part I, Item 1A - “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 (together, the “Risk Factors”), and the factors discussed in the section in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q entitled “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect management’s opinions only as of the date hereof. We undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements. Readers should carefully review the Risk Factors and the risk factors set forth in other documents we file from time to time with the SEC.

Some factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, our ability and intention to:

◦Sustain growth or profitability, particularly in light of an uncertain U.S. or worldwide economy and the related impact on customer acquisition and retention rates, customer usage levels, and credit and debit card payment declines;

◦Maintain and increase our Cloud Services customer base and average revenue per user;

◦Generate sufficient cash flow to make interest and debt payments, reinvest in our business, and pursue desired activities and businesses plans while satisfying restrictive covenants relating to debt obligations;

◦Acquire businesses on acceptable terms and successfully integrate and realize anticipated synergies from such acquisitions;

◦Continue to expand our businesses and operations internationally in the wake of numerous risks, including adverse currency fluctuations, difficulty in staffing and managing international operations, higher operating costs as a percentage of revenues, or the implementation of adverse regulations;

◦Maintain our financial position, operating results and cash flows in the event that we incur new or unanticipated costs or tax liabilities, including those relating to federal and state income tax and indirect taxes, such as sales, value-added and telecommunication taxes;

◦Accurately estimate the assumptions underlying our effective worldwide tax rate;

◦Continue to pay a comparable cash dividend on a quarterly basis;

◦Maintain favorable relationships with critical third-party vendors whose financial condition will not negatively impact the services they provide;

◦Create compelling digital media content causing increased traffic and advertising levels; additional advertisers or an increase in advertising spend; and effectively target digital media advertisements to desired audiences;

◦Manage certain risks inherent to our business, such as costs associated with fraudulent activity, system failure or security breach; effectively maintaining and managing our billing systems; time and resources required to manage our legal proceedings; liability for legal and other claims; or adhering to our internal controls and procedures;

◦Compete with other similar providers with regard to price, service, and functionality;

◦Cost-effectively procure, retain and deploy large quantities of telephone numbers in desired locations in the United States and abroad;

◦Achieve business and financial objectives in light of burdensome domestic and international telecommunications, internet or other regulations, including regulations related to data privacy, access, security, retention, and sharing;

◦Successfully manage our growth, including but not limited to our operational and personnel-related resources, and integration of newly acquired businesses;


◦Successfully adapt to technological changes and diversify services and related revenues at acceptable levels of financial return;

◦Successfully develop and protect our intellectual property, both domestically and internationally, including our brands, patents, trademarks and domain names, and avoid infringing upon the proprietary rights of others; and

◦Recruit and retain key personnel.

In addition, our financial results could be materially impacted by risks associated with new accounting pronouncements.

Overview

j2 Global, Inc., together with its subsidiaries (“j2 Global”, “the Company”, “our”, “us” or “we”), is a leading provider of internet services. Through our Cloud Services segment, we provide cloud services to consumers and businesses and license our intellectual property (“IP”) to third parties. In addition, the Cloud Services segment includes fax, voice, backup, security and email marketing products. Our Digital Media segment specializes in the technology, gaming, lifestyle and healthcare markets offering content, tools and services to consumers and businesses.

Our Cloud Services segment generates revenues primarily from customer subscription and usage fees and from IP licensing fees. Our Digital Media segment generates revenues from advertising and sponsorships, subscription and usage fees, performance marketing and licensing fees.

In addition to growing our business organically, on a regular basis we acquire businesses to grow our customer bases, expand and diversify our service offerings, enhance our technologies, acquire skilled personnel and enter into new markets. 

Our consolidated revenues are currently generated from three basic business models, each with different financial profiles and variability. Our Cloud Services segment is driven primarily by subscription revenues that are relatively higher margin, stable and predictable from quarter to quarter with some seasonal weakness in the fourth quarter. The Cloud Services segment also includes the results of our IP licensing business, which can vary dramatically in both revenues and profitability from period to period. Our Digital Media segment is driven primarily by advertising revenues, has relatively higher sales and marketing expense and has seasonal strength in the fourth quarter. We continue to pursue additional acquisitions, which may include companies operating under business models that differ from those we operate under today. Such acquisitions could impact our consolidated profit margins and the variability of our revenues.



Cloud Services Segment Performance Metrics






Digital Media Segment Performance Metrics





Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

In the ordinary course of business, we have made a number of estimates and assumptions relating to the reporting of results of operations and financial condition in the preparation of our financial statements. Actual results could differ significantly from those estimates under different assumptions and conditions. Our critical accounting policies are described in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 1, 2018. During the three months ended September 30, 2018, there were no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates.

Results of Operations for the Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2018

Cloud Services Segment

Assuming a stable or improving economic environment, and subject to our risk factors, we expect the revenue and profits as included in the results of operations below in our Cloud Services segment to be stable for the foreseeable future (excluding the impact of acquisitions). The main focus of our Cloud Services offerings is to reduce or eliminate costs, increase sales and enhance productivity, mobility, business continuity and security of our customers as the technologies and devices they use evolve over time. As a result, we expect to continue to take steps to enhance our existing offerings and offer new services to continue to satisfy the evolving needs of our customers. Through our IP licensing operations, which are included in the Cloud Services segment, we seek to make our IP available for license to third parties, and we expect to continue to attempt to obtain additional IP through a combination of acquisitions and internal development in an effort to increase available licensing opportunities and related revenues. 

We expect acquisitions to remain an important component of our strategy and use of capital in this segment; however, we cannot predict whether our current pace of acquisitions will remain the same within this segment. In a given period, we may close greater or fewer acquisitions than in prior periods or acquisitions of greater or lesser significance than in prior periods. Moreover, future acquisitions of businesses within this segment but with different business models may impact the segment’s overall profit margins. Also, as IP licensing often involves litigation, the timing of licensing transactions is unpredictable and can and does vary significantly from period to period. This variability can cause the overall segment’s financial results to materially vary from period to period.

Digital Media Segment

Assuming a stable or improving economic environment, and subject to our risk factors, we expect the revenue and profits in our Digital Media segment to improve over the next several quarters as we integrate our recent acquisitions and over the longer term as advertising transactions continue to shift from offline to online. The main focus of our advertising programs is to provide relevant and useful advertising to visitors to our websites and those included within our advertising networks, reflecting our commitment to constantly improve their overall web experience. As a result, we expect to continue to take steps to improve the relevance of the ads displayed on our websites and those included within our advertising networks.

The operating margin we realize on revenues generated from ads placed on our websites is significantly higher than the operating margin we realize from revenues generated from those placed on third-party websites. Growth in advertising revenues from our websites has generally exceeded that from third-party websites. This trend has had a positive impact on our operating margins, and we expect that this will continue for the foreseeable future. However, the trend in advertising spend is shifting to mobile devices and other newer advertising formats which generally experience lower margins than those from desktop computers and tablets. We expect this trend to continue to put pressure on our margins.

We expect acquisitions to remain an important component of our strategy and use of capital in this segment; however, we cannot predict whether our current pace of acquisitions will remain the same within this segment. In a given period, we may close greater or fewer acquisitions than in prior periods or acquisitions of greater or lesser significance than in prior periods. Moreover, future acquisitions of businesses within this segment but with different business models may impact the segment’s overall profit margins.


We anticipate that the stable revenue trend in our Cloud Services segment combined with the improving revenue and profits in our Digital Media segment will result in overall improved revenue and profits for j2 Global on a consolidated basis, excluding the impact of any future acquisitions which can vary dramatically from period to period. 

We expect operating profit as a percentage of revenues to generally decrease in the future primarily due to the fact that revenue with respect to our Digital Media segment (i) is increasing as a percentage of our revenue on a consolidated basis and (ii) has historically operated at a lower operating margin.


Revenues



Our revenues consist of revenues from our Cloud Services segment and from our Digital Media segment. Cloud Services revenues primarily consist of revenues from “fixed” customer subscription revenues and “variable” revenues generated from actual usage of our services. We also generate Cloud Services revenues from IP licensing. Digital Media revenues is primarily derived from advertising revenues and subscription to services and information revenues consisting of fees paid for generating business leads, and licensing and sale of editorial content and trademarks.

Our revenues in 2018 have increased over the comparable three and nine month periods of 2017 primarily due to a combination of acquisitions and organic growth within both the Digital Media and Cloud Services segments.

Cost of Revenues



Cost of revenues is primarily comprised of costs associated with data and voice transmission, numbers, editorial and production costs, network operations, customer service, online processing fees and equipment depreciation. The increase in cost of revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 was primarily due to an increase in costs associated with businesses acquired in and subsequent to the third quarter 2017 that resulted in additional editorial and production, network operations, and online processing fees.

Operating Expenses

Sales and Marketing.



Our sales and marketing costs consist primarily of internet-based advertising, sales and marketing, personnel costs and other business development-related expenses. Our internet-based advertising relationships consist primarily of fixed cost and performance-based (cost-per-impression, cost-per-click and cost-per-acquisition) advertising relationships with an array of online service providers. Advertising cost for the three months ended September 30, 2018 was $36.3 million (primarily consists of $24.4 million of third-party advertising costs and $10.2 million of personnel costs) compared to 2017 of $35.7 million (primarily consists of $24.1 million of third-party advertising costs and $10.4 million of personnel costs). Advertising cost for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was $111.0 million (primarily consists of $73.2 million of third-party advertising costs and $30.6 million of personnel costs) compared to 2017 of $101.7 million (primarily consists of $67.8 million of third-party advertising costs and $30.5 million of personnel costs). The increase in sales and marketing expenses for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 


versus the prior comparable periods was primarily due to increased personnel costs and advertising associated with the acquisition of businesses acquired in and subsequent to the third quarter 2017 within the Digital Media segment.

Research, Development and Engineering.



Our research, development and engineering costs consist primarily of personnel-related expenses. The decrease in research, development and engineering costs for the three months ended September 30, 2018 versus the prior comparable period was primarily due to the capitalization of certain personnel costs associated with the development of internally-developed software and a reduction in expenses for professional services. Research, development and engineering costs for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 remained consistent with the prior comparable period. 

General and Administrative.



Our general and administrative costs consist primarily of personnel-related expenses, depreciation and amortization, changes in the fair value associated with contingent consideration, share-based compensation expense, bad debt expense, professional fees, severance and insurance costs. The increase in general and administrative expense for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 versus the prior comparable periods was primarily due to additional amortization of intangible assets,

depreciation of fixed assets, personnel costs relating to businesses acquired in and subsequent to the third quarter 2017, fair

value adjustments to contingent consideration, severance costs associated with acquisitions and professional fees.

Share-Based Compensation




Non-Operating Income and Expenses

Interest expense, net. Our interest expense, net is generated primarily from interest expense due to outstanding debt, partially offset by interest income earned on cash, cash equivalents and investments. Interest expense, net was $15.2 million and $25.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $46.4 million and $51.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Interest expense, net decreased over the prior comparable periods primarily due to decreased interest expense associated with the extinguishment and loss of the $250 million 8.0% Senior Notes, partially offset by increased interest income on cash, cash equivalents and investments.

Other expense (income), net. Our other expense (income), net is generated primarily from miscellaneous items, gain or losses on currency exchange and gains or losses on investments. Other expense (income), net was $1.2 million and $(3.9) million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The increase in expense over the prior comparable period is due to increased losses on currency exchange in the current period compared to the prior period’s gains earned related to the sales of Cambridge BioMarketing Group, LLC (“Cambridge”) and j2 Australia Hosting Pty Ltd (dba “Web24”). Other expense (income), net was $6.2 million and $0.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The increase in expense over the prior comparable period is due to a loss on equity securities of $3.7 million partially offset by decreased losses on currency exchange compared to the prior period’s gain related to the sales of Cambridge BioMarketing Group, LLC (“Cambridge”) and j2 Australia Hosting Pty Ltd (dba “Web24”).

Income Taxes

Our effective tax rate is based on pre-tax income, statutory tax rates, tax regulations (including those related to transfer pricing) and different tax rates in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. The tax bases of our assets and liabilities reflect our best estimate of the tax benefits and costs we expect to realize. When necessary, we establish valuation allowances to reduce our deferred tax assets to an amount that will more likely than not be realized. 

The 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“2017 Tax Act”) was enacted on December 22, 2017. The 2017 Tax Act includes a number of changes to the Internal Revenue Code including a one-time transition tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of cumulative undistributed foreign earnings and a permanent reduction in the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate from 35% to 21%, effective on January 1, 2018. The 2017 Tax Act also created a new requirement that certain income (i.e. Global Intangible Low Taxed Income (“GILTI”)) earned by foreign subsidiaries must be included currently in the gross income of the U.S. shareholder. Consistent with guidance issued by SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (“SAB 118”), the Company recorded provisional estimates for the income tax effects of the 2017 Tax Act in December 2017. In addition, SAB 118 provides for a measurement period of one year from the enactment date to finalize the accounting for effects of the 2017 Tax Act. We continue to analyze the impacts of the 2017 Tax Act and refine calculations. 

We record deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the enacted tax rates at which they are expected to reverse in the future. Therefore, any U.S. related deferred taxes were re-measured from 35% down to 21% based on the recorded balances as of December 31, 2017. The analysis included a preliminary assessment on the deductibility of certain amounts for which deferred tax assets may have been recorded. As of December 31, 2017, we recorded an estimated tax benefit of approximately $33.3 million. As of September 30, 2018, we did not adjust the provisional estimate related to re-measurement of deferred tax balances. 


We were unable to determine a reasonable estimate of the remaining tax liability, if any, under the 2017 Tax Act for its remaining outside basis differences or evaluate how the 2017 Tax Act will affect our existing accounting position to indefinitely reinvest unremitted foreign earnings. Therefore, the Company did not include a provisional amount for this item in its financial statements for fiscal 2017. As of September 30, 2018, we continue to review the amount of tax due, if any, on differences in tax basis and the accounting position related to indefinite reinvestment of foreign earnings. 

 We are subject to a territorial tax system under the 2017 Tax Act. We are required to provide for tax on GILTI earned by certain of our foreign subsidiaries. Additionally, we are required to make an accounting policy election to either recognize deferred taxes for temporary basis differences expected to reverse as GILTI in future years or provide for the tax expense related to GILTI in the year the tax is incurred as a period expense. As of September 30, 2018, we continue our evaluation of the effects of the GILTI provisions as guidance and interpretations continue to emerge. Therefore, we have not determined an accounting policy on the GILTI provisions. However, the standard requires that we reflect the impact of the GILTI provisions as a period expense until 


the accounting policy is finalized. Therefore, we have included the provisional estimate of GILTI related to current-year operations in its estimated annual effective tax rate only and will be updating the impact and accounting policy as the analysis related to the GILTI provisions is completed. 

Provision for income taxes amounted to $9.3 million and $9.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $23.4 million and $27.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Our effective tax rate was 22.9% and 22.1% for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and 22.2% and 23.7% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.



2.a decrease during 2018 from the reduction in the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate from 35% to 21% effective on January 1, 2018.


1.a decrease during 2018 from the reduction in the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate from 35% to 21% effective on January 1, 2018;

2.a decrease during 2018 in the amount of deemed distribution income (Section 956) from our foreign subsidiaries;


4.an increase in tax expense during 2018 due to tax law changes requiring certain income earned by foreign subsidiaries to be included in the income of the U.S. shareholder. 

Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes and in evaluating our tax positions on a worldwide basis. We believe our tax positions, including intercompany transfer pricing policies, are consistent with the tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business. Certain of these tax positions have in the past been, and are currently being, challenged, and this may have a significant impact on our effective tax rate if our tax reserves are insufficient.

Equity Method Investment

Net loss in earnings of equity method investment. Net loss in earnings of equity method investment is generated from our investment in the OCV Fund for which we receive annual audited financial statements. The investment in the OCV Fund is presented net of tax and on a one-quarter lag due to the timing and availability of financial information from OCV. If the Company becomes aware of a significant decline in value, the loss will be recorded in the period in which the Company identifies the decline.

The net loss in earnings of equity method investment was $0.6 million and $3.6 million, net of tax benefit for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively. 

Segment Results


We evaluate the performance of our operating segments based on segment revenues, including both external and intersegment net sales, and segment operating income. We account for intersegment sales and transfers based primarily on standard costs with reasonable mark-ups established between the segments. Identifiable assets by segment are those assets used in the respective reportable segment’s operations. Corporate assets consist of cash and cash equivalents, deferred income taxes and certain other assets. All significant intersegment amounts are eliminated to arrive at our consolidated financial results.


Cloud Services



Cloud Services’ net sales of $150.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 increased $4.3 million, or 3.0%, and segment net sales of $449.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 increased $17.8 million, or 4.1%, from the prior comparable periods due to business acquisitions.

Cloud Services’ gross profit of $118.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 increased $2.7 million, or 2.3%, and segment gross profit of $356.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 increased $13.5 million, or 3.9%, from the prior comparable periods primarily due to business acquisitions.

Cloud Services’ operating expenses of $61.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 increased $1.7 million, and segment operating expenses of $184.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 increased $11.9 million, from the prior comparable periods primarily due to (a) additional expense associated with businesses acquired in and subsequent to the prior comparable period; (b) increased bad debt expense; and (c) an allocation of certain shared Corporate operating costs. 

As a result of these factors, segment operating income of $57.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 increased $1.0 million, or 1.7%, and segment operating income of $172.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 increased $1.6 million, or 1.0% from the prior comparable periods. 

Digital Media



Digital Media’s net sales of $142.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 increased $14.8 million, or 11.6%, and segment net sales of $411.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 increased $41.9 million or 11.4%, from the prior comparable periods primarily due to business acquisitions.

Digital Media’s gross profit of $125.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 increased $9.6 million, or 8.3%, and segment gross profit of $359.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 increased $27.5 million, or 8.3%, from the prior comparable periods primarily due to business acquisitions.


Digital Media’s operating expenses of $118.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 increased $15.0 million and segment operating expenses of $352.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 increased $39.7 million from the prior comparable periods primarily due to (a) additional expense associated with businesses acquired in and subsequent to the prior comparable period comprised primarily of salary and related costs, marketing costs, changes in fair value of contingent consideration and amortization of intangible assets; and (b) an allocation of certain shared Corporate operating costs. 

As a result of these factors, segment operating income of $7.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 decreased $5.3 million, or 43.2%, and segment operating income of $6.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 decreased $12.2 million, or 64.1% from the prior comparable periods.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Cash and Cash Equivalents and Investments

At September 30, 2018, we had cash and investments of $386.0 million compared to $408.7 million at December 31, 2017. The decrease in cash and investments resulted primarily from business acquisitions, dividends paid, purchases of property and equipment. At September 30, 2018, cash and investments consisted of cash and cash equivalents of $303.5 million and long-term investments of $82.5 million. Our investments consists of certificates of deposits, equity and debt securities. For financial statement presentation, we classify our investments primarily as available-for-sale and equity method investments and are reported as long-term investments. We retain a substantial portion of our cash and investments in foreign jurisdictions for future reinvestment. As of September 30, 2018, cash and investments held within domestic and foreign jurisdictions were $216.7 million and $169.3 million, respectively. If the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries are needed for our operations in the United States, we would be required to accrue and pay non-U.S withholding taxes upon repatriation in certain non-U.S. jurisdictions. 

On February 2, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a quarterly cash dividend of $0.4050 per share of common stock payable on March 9, 2018 to all stockholders of record as of the close of business on February 22, 2018. On May 3, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a quarterly cash dividend of $0.4150 per share of j2 Global common stock payable on June 1, 2018 to all stockholders of record as of the close of business on May 18, 2018. On August 8, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a quarterly cash dividend of $0.4250 per share of j2 Global common stock payable on September 4, 2018 to all stockholders of record as of the close of business on August 20, 2018. On October 29, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a quarterly cash dividend of $0.4350 per share of j2 Global common stock payable on December 5, 2018 to all stockholders of record as of the close of business on November 19, 2018. Future dividends are subject to Board approval.

On September 25, 2017, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized the Company’s entry into a commitment to invest $200 million in an investment fund (the “Fund”) over several years at a fairly ratable rate. The manager, OCV Management, LLC (“OCV”), and general partner of the Fund are entities with respect to which Richard S. Ressler, Chairman of the Board of Directors (the “Board”) of the Company, is indirectly the majority equity holder. As a limited partner in the Fund, the Company will pay an annual management fee to the manager equal to 2.0% (reduced by 10% each year beginning with the sixth year) of capital commitments. In addition, subject to the terms and conditions of the Fund’s limited partnership agreement, once the Company has received distributions equal to its invested capital, the Fund’s general partner will be entitled to a carried interest equal to 20%. The Fund has a six year investment period, subject to certain exceptions. The commitment was approved by the Audit Committee of the Board in accordance with the Company’s related-party transaction approval policy.

During 2018, the Company received capital call notices from the management of OCV Management, LLC. for $35.8 million, inclusive of certain management fees, of which $34.8 million has been paid for the nine months ended September 30, 2018. 

We currently anticipate that our existing cash and cash equivalents and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated needs for working capital, capital expenditure, stock repurchases and cash dividends for at least the next 12 months.


Cash Flows

Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations, together with cash and cash equivalents. Net cash provided by operating activities was $294.1 million and $179.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Our operating cash flows resulted primarily from cash received from our customers offset by cash payments we made to third parties for their services, employee compensation and interest payments associated with our debt. The increase in our net cash provided by operating activities in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily attributable to a decrease in accounts receivable and increased depreciation and amortization; partially offset by a decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses and income taxes payable. Our cash and cash equivalents were $303.5 million and $350.9 million at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.

Net cash used in investing activities was $271.7 million and $44.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, net cash used in investing activities was primarily attributable to business acquisitions, capital expenditures associated with the purchase of property and equipment and the purchase of investments. For the nine months ended September 30, 2017, net cash used in investing activities was primarily attributable to business acquisitions, capital expenditures associated with the purchase of property and equipment and the purchase of intangible assets; partially offset by proceeds from the sale of businesses. The increase in our net cash used in investing activities in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to additional business acquisitions.

Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities was $(67.2) million and $135.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, net cash used in financing activities was primarily attributable to dividends paid, repurchases of stock and business acquisitions. For the nine months ended September 30, 2017, net cash provided by financing activities was primarily attributable to proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt, additional borrowings under our line of credit and exercise of stock options; partially offset by the repayment in full of the line of credit and other debt, dividends paid, repurchases of stock and business acquisitions. The change in net cash used in financing activities in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily attributable to the proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt; partially offset by the net payment associated with the payment in full of our line of credit in the prior comparable period.

Stock Repurchase Program

In February 2012, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a program authorizing the repurchase of up to five million shares of our common stock through February 20, 2013 (the “2012 Program”) which was subsequently extended through February 19, 2019. During the nine month period ended September 30, 2018, we repurchased zero shares under this program. Cumulatively at September 30, 2018, 2.1 million shares were repurchased at an aggregate cost of $58.6 million (including an immaterial amount of commission fees).


Contractual Obligations and Commitments












As of September 30, 2018, our liability for uncertain tax positions was $55.7 million. The future payments related to uncertain tax positions have not been presented in the table above due to the uncertainty of the amounts and timing of cash settlement with such authorities. 

We have not presented contingent consideration associated with acquisitions in the table above due to the uncertainty of the amounts and the timing of cash settlements.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We are not party to any material off-balance sheet arrangements.


Item 3.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

The following discussion of the market risks we face contains forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from those discussed in forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect management’s opinions only as of the date hereof. j2 Global undertakes no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements. Readers should carefully review the risk factors described in this document and in the other documents incorporated by reference herein, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 as well as in other documents we file from time to time with the SEC, including the Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and any Current Reports on Form 8-K filed or to be filed by us in 2018.

Interest Rate Risk

Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio. The primary objectives of our investment activities are to preserve our principal while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. To achieve these objectives, we maintain our portfolio of cash equivalents and investments in a mix of instruments that meet high credit quality standards, as specified in our investment policy. Our cash and cash equivalents are not subject to significant interest rate risk due to the short maturities of these instruments. As of September 30, 2018, the carrying value of our cash and cash equivalents approximated fair value. Our return on these investments is subject to interest rate fluctuations.

As of September 30, 2018, we had investments in debt securities with effective maturities greater than one year of approximately $21.4 million. As of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, we had cash and cash equivalent investments primarily in money market funds with maturities of 90 days or less of $303.5 million and $350.9 million, respectively. 

We cannot ensure that future interest rate movements will not have a material adverse effect on our future business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. To date, we have not entered into interest rate hedging transactions to control or minimize certain of these risks.

Foreign Currency Risk

We conduct business in certain foreign markets, primarily in Canada, Australia and the European Union. Our principal exposure to foreign currency risk relates to investment and inter-company debt in foreign subsidiaries that transact business in functional currencies other than the U.S. Dollar, primarily the Australian Dollar, the Canadian Dollar, the Euro, the Hong Kong Dollar, the Japanese Yen, the New Zealand Dollar, the Norwegian Kroner and the British Pound Sterling. If we are unable to settle our short-term inter-company debts in a timely manner, we remain exposed to foreign currency fluctuations. 

As we expand our international presence, we become further exposed to foreign currency risk by entering new markets with additional foreign currencies. The economic impact of currency exchange rate movements is often linked to variability in real growth, inflation, interest rates, governmental actions and other factors. These changes, if material, could cause us to adjust our financing and operating strategies.

As currency exchange rates change, translation of the income statements of the international businesses into U.S. Dollars affects year-over-year comparability of operating results, the impact of which is immaterial to the comparisons set forth in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 

Historically, we have not hedged translation risks because cash flows from international operations were generally reinvested locally; however, we may do so in the future. Our objective in managing foreign exchange risk is to minimize the potential exposure to changes that exchange rates might have on earnings, cash flows and financial position.

Foreign exchange losses for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 were $1.6 million and $1.0 million, respectively, and for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 were $3.6 million and $5.5 million, respectively. The increase in losses to our earnings in the current period were attributable to increased inter-company debt between periods in foreign subsidiaries that were in functional currencies other than the U.S. Dollar.

Cumulative translation adjustments, net of tax, included in other comprehensive income for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 were $(2.9) million and $7.7 million, respectively, and for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 were $(11.3) million and $23.6 million, respectively.


We currently do not have derivative financial instruments for hedging, speculative or trading purposes and therefore are not subject to such hedging risk. However, we may in the future engage in hedging transactions to manage our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.

Item 4.Controls and Procedures


The Company maintains disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”)) that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the Company’s reports under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to the Company’s management, including the principal executive officer and the principal financial officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. 

As of the end of the period covered by this report, j2 Global’s management, with the participation of Vivek Shah, our principal executive officer, and R. Scott Turicchi, our principal financial officer, carried out an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures. Based upon that evaluation, Mr. Shah and Mr. Turicchi concluded that these disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.


There have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act) which occurred during the third quarter ended September 30, 2018 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.


PART II. OTHER INFORMATION

Item 1.Legal Proceedings

See Note 9 – Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1) for information regarding certain legal proceedings in which we are involved.

Item 1A. Risk Factors

In addition to the other information set forth in this report, before deciding to invest in j2 Global or to maintain or increase your investment, you should carefully consider the factors discussed in Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 (the “10-K Risk Factors”) as well as in other documents we file from time to time with the SEC, including the Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and any Current Reports on Form 8-K filed or to be filed by us in 2018. If any of these risks occur, our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. The 10-K Risk Factors are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. There have been no material changes from the 10-K Risk Factors, except for the risks described in subsequently filed Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.

Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds


 None.


Effective February 15, 2012, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a program authorizing the repurchase of up to five million shares of our common stock through February 20, 2013 (the “2012 Program”) which was subsequently extended through February 19, 2019. In July 2016, the Company acquired and subsequently retired 935,231 shares of j2 Global common stock in connection with the acquisition of Integrated Global Concepts, Inc. As a result of the purchase of j2 Global common stock, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a reduction in the number of shares available for purchase under the 2012 Program by the same amount leaving 1,938,689 shares of j2 Global common stock available for purchase under this program. During the nine month period ended September 30, 2018, we repurchased zero shares under this program. Cumulatively at September 30, 2018, 2.1 million shares were repurchased at an aggregate cost of $58.6 million (including an immaterial amount of commission fees).





Item 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities

None.

Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures

Not Applicable.

Item 5.Other Information

None.

Item 6.Exhibits

31.1Rule 13a-14(a) Certification of Principal Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

31.2Rule 13a-14(a) Certification of Principal Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

32.1Section 1350 Certification of Principal Executive Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

32.2Section 1350 Certification of Principal Financial Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.



SIGNATURE

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.





INDEX TO EXHIBITS


