
UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION





 (Mark One)

xQUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the quarterly period ended March 31, 2019 

or 

¨TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from   to  

Commission file number 0-12933 


LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION










Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes x No ¨

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files). Yes x No ¨



If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ¨

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes ¨ No x

As of April 26, 2019, the Registrant had 149,926,529 shares of Common Stock outstanding.
LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION
PART I. FINANCIAL INFORMATION

ITEM 1.Financial Statements

LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS




See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements

LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME




See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements

LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS




See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements

LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements

LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY




See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements


See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements

LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE 1 — BASIS OF PRESENTATION



NOTE 2 — RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

Recently Adopted

In May 2014, the FASB released ASU 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers,” to supersede nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under GAAP. The FASB issued subsequent amendments to the initial guidance in August 2015, March 2016, April 2016, May 2016 and December 2016 within ASU 2015–14, ASU 2016–08, ASU 2016–10, ASU 2016–12 and ASU 2016–20, respectively; all of which in combination with ASU 2014-09 were codified as Accounting Standard Codification Topic 606 (“ASC 606”). The core principle of the standard is to recognize revenues when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services. The Company adopted ASC 606 on the first day of the current fiscal year, June 25, 2018, under the modified retrospective approach, applying the amendments to prospective reporting periods. Results for reporting periods beginning on or after June 25, 2018 are presented under ASC 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with the historic accounting under ASC 605. In conjunction with the adoption of ASC 606, the Company’s revenue recognition policy has been amended, refer to Note 3 - Revenue for a description of the amendments.



Upon adoption, the Company recorded a cumulative effect adjustment of $139.4 million, net of tax adjustment of $21.0 million, which increased the June 25, 2018 opening retained earnings balance on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet, primarily as a result of changes in the timing of recognition of system sales. Under ASC 606, the Company recognizes revenue from sales of systems when the Company determines that control has passed to the customer which is generally (1) for products that have been demonstrated to meet product specifications prior to shipment upon shipment or delivery; (2) for products that have not been demonstrated to meet product specifications prior to shipment, revenue is recognized upon completion of installation and receipt of customer acceptance; (3) for transactions where legal title does not pass upon shipment or delivery and the Company does not have a right to payment, revenue is recognized when legal title passes to the customer and the Company has a right to payment, which is generally at customer acceptance.



Except as disclosed above, the adoption of ASC 606 did not have a significant impact on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2019.

In January 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-01, “Financial Instruments – Overall – Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.” The FASB issued a subsequent amendment to the initial guidance in February 2018 within ASU 2018-03. These amendments change the accounting for and financial statement presentation of equity investments, other than those accounted for under the equity method of accounting or those that result in consolidation of the investee. The amendments provide clarity on the measurement methodology to be used for the required disclosure of fair value of financial instruments measured at amortized cost on the balance sheet and clarifies that an entity should evaluate the need for a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets related to available-for-sale securities in combination with the entity’s other deferred tax assets, among other changes. The Company’s adoption of this standard in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 did not have a material impact on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.

In August 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-15, “Statement of Cash Flows – Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments.” The amendment provides and clarifies guidance on the classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments in the statement of cash flows to eliminate diversity in practice. The Company adopted this standard update in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 using a retrospective transition method. The Company’s adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.

In October 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-16, “Income Tax – Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other than Inventory.” This standard update improves the accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory. The Company adopted this standard in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 using a modified-retrospective approach through a cumulative-effect adjustment directly to retained earnings. The Company’s adoption of this standard resulted in a $0.4 million decrease to retained earnings and a corresponding $0.4 million increase to other assets on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.

In November 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-18, “Statement of Cash Flows – Restricted Cash.” This standard update requires that restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents be included in cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts shown in the statement of cash flows. The Company adopted this standard in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, using a retrospective transition method to each period presented. The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.

In February 2018, the FASB released ASU 2018-02, “Reclassification of Certain Tax Effects from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income.” This standard update addresses a specific consequence of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“U.S Tax Reform”) and allows a reclassification from accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings for the stranded tax effects resulting from U.S. tax reform. Consequently, the update eliminates the stranded tax effects that were created as a result of the historical U.S. federal corporate income tax rate to the newly enacted U.S. federal corporate income tax rate. The Company adopted this standard in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 using a modified-retrospective approach through a cumulative-effect adjustment directly to retained earnings. The adoption of this standard resulted in a $2.2 million increase to retained earnings, with a corresponding $2.2 million decrease to other comprehensive income.

In August 2018, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) adopted amendments to eliminate, integrate, update or modify certain of its disclosure requirements. The amendments are part of the SEC’s efforts to improve disclosure effectiveness and were focused on eliminating disclosure requirements that have become redundant, duplicative, overlapping, outdated, or superseded. The Company adopted these amendments in the first quarter of fiscal Year 2019 and as a result the Company has included a Condensed Consolidated Statement of Stockholders’ Equity to this quarterly report on Form 10-Q. The Company expects that the Company’s 2019 annual report on Form 10-K will omit a number of disclosures previously required in Part II. Item 5. Market for the Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities, as well as other minor changes.

Updates Not Yet Effective


In June 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-13, “Financial Instruments – Credit Losses.” The amendment revises the impairment model to utilize an expected loss methodology in place of the currently used incurred loss methodology, which will result in more timely recognition of losses on financial instruments, including but not limited to, available for sale debt securities and accounts receivable. The Company is required to adopt this standard starting in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021 using a modified-retrospective approach. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently in the process of evaluating the impact of adoption on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.

In November 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-18, "Collaborative Arrangements (Topic 808).” The amendment clarifies that certain transactions between participants in a collaborative arrangement should be accounted for under Topic 606 when the counterparty is a customer for a good or service that is a distinct unit of account. The amendment also precludes entities from presenting consideration from transactions with a collaborator that is not a customer together with revenue recognized from contracts with customers. The Company is required to adopt this standard starting in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021. The standard should be applied retrospectively to the period when the Company initially adopted ASC 606. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of adoptions on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.

NOTE 3 — REVENUE

Revenue Recognition

The Company recognizes revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services by following a five-step process, (1) identify the contract with a customer, (2) identify the performance obligations in the contract, (3) determine the transaction price, (4) allocate the transaction price, and (5) recognize revenue when or as the Company satisfies a performance obligation, as further described below.


Identify the performance obligations in the contract. Performance obligations include sales of systems, spare parts, and services; as well as, installation and training services included in customer contracts, both of which have been deemed immaterial in the context of the contract.

Determine the transaction price. The transaction price for the Company’s contracts with its customers consists of both fixed and variable consideration provided it is probable that a significant reversal of revenue will not occur when the uncertainty related to variable consideration is resolved. Fixed consideration includes amounts to be contractually billed to the customer while variable consideration includes estimates for discounts and credits for future usage which are based on contractual terms outlined in volume purchase agreements and other factors known at the time. The Company generally invoices customers at shipment and for professional services either as provided or upon meeting certain milestones. Customer invoices are generally due within 30 to 90 days after issuance. The Company’s contracts with customers typically do not include significant financing components as the period between the transfer of performance obligations and timing of payment are generally within one year.

Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract. For contracts that contain multiple performance obligations, the Company allocates the transaction price to the performance obligations on a relative standalone selling price basis. Standalone selling prices are based on multiple factors including, but not limited to historical discounting trends for products and services and pricing practices in different geographies.

Recognize revenue when or as the Company satisfies a performance obligation. Revenue for systems and spares are recognized at a point in time, which is generally upon shipment or delivery. Revenue from services is recognized over time as services are completed or ratably over the contractual period of generally one year or less.

Deferred Revenue

Revenue of $126.9 million and $539.6 million included in deferred revenue at June 25, 2018 was recognized during the three and nine months ended March 31, 2019, respectively.




Disaggregation of Revenue







NOTE 4 — EQUITY-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS 

The Lam Research Corporation 2015 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (the “2015 Plan”), provides for the grant of non-qualified equity-based awards of the Company’s Common Stock to eligible employees and non-employee directors, including stock options, restricted stock units (“RSUs”), and market-based performance RSUs (“market-based PRSUs”). An option is a right to purchase Common Stock at a set price. An RSU award is an agreement to issue a set number of shares of Common Stock at the time of vesting. The Company’s market-based PRSUs contain both a market condition and a service condition. The Company’s options, RSU, and market-based PRSU awards typically vest over a period of three years. The Company also has an employee stock purchase plan that allows employees to purchase its Common Stock at a discount through payroll deductions.



Stock Options

The fair value of the Company’s stock options granted during the nine months ended March 31, 2019 was estimated using a Black-Scholes options valuation model, which requires the input of highly subjective assumptions, including expected stock price volatility and the estimated life of each award.



Restricted Stock 

During the nine months ended March 31, 2019, the Company issued both service-based RSUs and market-based performance RSUs (“PRSUs”). The fair value of the Company’s service-based RSUs was calculated based on the fair market value of the Company’s stock at the grant date, discounted for dividends. The fair value of the Company’s market-based PRSUs was calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation model at the date of the grant. Market-based PRSUs generally vest three years from the grant date if certain performance criteria are achieved and require continued employment. Based upon the terms of such awards, the number of shares that can be earned over the performance periods is based on the Company’s Common Stock price performance compared to the market price performance of the Philadelphia Semiconductor Sector Index (“SOX”), ranging from 0% to 150% of target. The stock price performance or market price performance is measured using the closing price for the 50-trading days prior to the dates the performance period begins and ends. The target number of shares represented by the market-based PRSUs is increased by 2% of target for each 1% that Common Stock price performance exceeds the market price performance of the SOX index. The result of the vesting formula is rounded down to the nearest whole number.



NOTE 5 — OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE), NET 



NOTE 6 — INCOME TAX EXPENSE 


The Company recorded an income tax expense of $38.7 million and $187.5 million for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2019, which yielded an effective tax rate of approximately 6.6% and 10.2%, respectively.

The difference between the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21% and the Company’s effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2019 is primarily due to the impact of U.S. tax reform, outlined below, and income in lower tax jurisdictions.


Beginning in fiscal year 2019, the Company is subject to the impact of the “Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income” (“GILTI”) provision of U.S. tax reform. The GILTI provision imposes taxes on foreign earnings in excess of a deemed return on tangible assets. The Company has calculated the impact of the GILTI provision on current year earnings and has included the impact in the effective tax rate. In addition, the Company evaluated whether deferred taxes should be recorded in relation to the GILTI provision or if the tax should be recorded in the period in which it occurs. Based on current interpretation, the Company could choose either method as an accounting policy election. The Company made an accounting policy election in the September 2018 quarter to record deferred taxes in relation to the GILTI provision, and recorded a provisional tax benefit of $48.0 million 

in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in the three months ended September 23, 2018, under SAB 118. The Company finalized the computation of the accounting policy election during the December 2018 quarter. The final adjustment resulted in a tax expense of $0.4 million, which was recorded in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in the three months ended December 23, 2018. The final tax benefit of the election is $47.6 million.

The Company is in various stages of examinations in connection with all of its tax audits worldwide, and it is difficult to determine when these examinations will be settled. It is reasonably possible that over the next 12-month period the Company may experience an increase or decrease in its unrecognized tax benefits as a result of tax examinations or lapses of statute of limitations. The change in unrecognized tax benefits may range up to $14.0 million. 

NOTE 7 — NET INCOME PER SHARE

Basic net income per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net income per share is computed using the treasury stock method, for dilutive stock options, restricted stock units, convertible notes, and warrants. Dilutive shares outstanding include the effect of the convertible notes. Refer to Note 12 - Long-term Debt and Other Borrowings for additional information regarding the Company’s convertible notes. The following table reconciles the numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted computations for net income per share. 




Diluted shares outstanding do not include any effect resulting from note hedges associated with the Company’s 2018 Notes as their impact would have been anti-dilutive.

NOTE 8 — FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

The Company maintains an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. The Company’s mutual funds, which are related to the Company’s obligations under the deferred compensation plan, are classified as trading securities. Investments classified as trading securities are recorded at fair value based upon quoted market prices. Differences between the cost and fair value of trading securities are recognized as other income (expense) in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. All of the Company’s other investments are classified as available-for-sale and consequently are recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax.

Fair Value

The Company defines fair value as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required or permitted to be recorded at fair value, the Company considers the principal or most advantageous market in which it would transact, and it considers assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.





The Company’s primary financial instruments include its cash, cash equivalents, investments, restricted cash and investments, long-term investments, accounts receivable, accounts payable, long-term debt and capital leases, and foreign currency related derivative instruments. The estimated fair value of cash, accounts receivable, and accounts payable approximates their carrying value due to the short period of time to their maturities. The estimated fair values of capital lease obligations approximate their carrying value as the substantial majority of these obligations have interest rates that adjust to market rates on a periodic basis. Refer to Note 12 - Long-Term Debt and Other Borrowings for additional information regarding the fair value of the Company’s senior notes and convertible senior notes.




The Company accounts for its investment portfolio at fair value. Realized gains (losses) for investment sales are specifically identified. Management assesses the fair value of investments in debt securities that are not actively traded through consideration of interest rates and their impact on the present value of the cash flows to be received from the investments. The Company also considers whether changes in the credit ratings of the issuer could impact the assessment of fair value. Additionally, the Company also considers factors such as the Company’s intent to sell the security and whether it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis.






The Company has the ability, if necessary, to liquidate its investments in order to meet the Company’s liquidity needs in the next 12 months. Accordingly, those investments with contractual maturities greater than 12 months from the date of purchase nonetheless are classified as short-term on the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Derivative Instruments and Hedging

The Company carries derivative financial instruments (“derivatives”) on its Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at their fair values. The Company enters into foreign currency forward contracts and foreign currency options with financial institutions with the primary objective of reducing volatility of earnings and cash flows related to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. In addition, the Company enters into interest rate swap arrangements to manage interest rate risk. The counterparties to these derivatives are large global financial institutions that the Company believes are creditworthy, and therefore, it does not consider the risk of counterparty nonperformance to be material.

Cash Flow Hedges


In addition, the Company has entered into interest rate swap agreements to hedge against the variability of cash flows due to changes in certain benchmark interest rates on fixed rate debt. These instruments are designated as cash flow hedges at inception and are settled in conjunction with the issuance of debt. The effective portion of the contracts’ gains or losses is included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and is amortized into income as the hedged item impacts earnings. 

At inception and at each quarter-end, hedges are tested prospectively and retrospectively for effectiveness using regression analysis. Changes in the fair value of foreign exchange contracts due to changes in time value are included in the assessment of effectiveness. To qualify for hedge accounting, the hedge relationship must meet criteria relating to both the derivative instrument and the hedged item. These criteria include identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item, the nature of the risk being hedged and how the hedging instrument’s effectiveness in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged item’s fair value or cash flows will be measured. There were no material gains or losses during the three or nine months ended March 31, 2019 and March 25, 2018 associated with forecasted transactions that failed to occur. 

To receive hedge accounting treatment, all hedging relationships are formally documented at the inception of the hedge, and the hedges must be tested to demonstrate an expectation of providing highly effective offsetting changes to future cash flows on hedged transactions. When derivative instruments are designated and qualify as effective cash flow hedges, the Company recognizes effective changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) until the hedged exposure is realized. Consequently, the Company’s results of operations are not subject to fluctuation as a result of changes in the fair value of the derivative instruments. If hedges are not highly effective or if the Company does not believe that the underlying hedged forecasted transactions will occur, the Company may not be able to account for its derivative instruments as cash flow hedges. If this were to occur, future changes in the fair values of the Company’s derivative instruments would be recognized in earnings. Additionally, related amounts previously recorded in other comprehensive income would be reclassified to income immediately. As of March 31, 2019, the Company had a net loss of $0.4 million accumulated in other comprehensive income, net of tax, related to foreign exchange cash flow hedges which it expects to reclassify from other comprehensive income into earnings over the next 12 months. Additionally, as of March 31, 2019, the 

Company had a net loss of $2.1 million accumulated in other comprehensive income, net of tax, related to interest rate contracts which it expects to reclassify from other comprehensive income into earnings over the next 6.0 years. 

Fair Value Hedges

The Company has interest rate contracts whereby the Company receives fixed rates and pays variable rates based on certain benchmark interest rates, resulting in a net increase or decrease to interest expense, a component of other expense, net in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations. These interest rate contracts are designated as fair value hedges and hedge against changes in the fair value of our debt portfolio. The Company concluded that these interest rate contracts meet the criteria necessary to qualify for the short-cut method of hedge accounting, and as such an assumption is made that the change in the fair value of the hedged debt, due to changes in the benchmark rate, exactly offsets the change in the fair value of the interest rate swap. Therefore, the derivative is considered to be effective at achieving offsetting changes in the fair value of the hedged liability, and no ineffectiveness is recognized. 

Balance Sheet Hedges

The Company also enters into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge fluctuations associated with foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, primarily cash, third-party accounts receivable, accounts payable, and intercompany receivables and payables. These forward contracts are not designated for hedge accounting treatment. Therefore, the change in fair value of these derivatives is recorded as a component of other income (expense) and offsets the change in fair value of the foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities, which are also recorded in other income (expense).






Under the master netting agreements with the respective counterparties to the Company’s derivative contracts, subject to applicable requirements, the Company is allowed to net settle transactions of the same currency with a single net amount payable by one party to the other. However, the Company has elected to present the derivative assets and derivative liabilities on a gross basis on its balance sheet. As of March 31, 2019, the potential effect of rights of offset associated with the above foreign exchange and interest rate contracts would be an offset to assets and liabilities by $1.3 million, resulting in a net derivative asset of $1.2 million and net derivative liability of $16.9 million. As of June 24, 2018, the potential effect of rights of offset associated with the above foreign exchange contracts would be an offset to both assets and liabilities by $5.6 million, resulting in a net derivative asset of $2.1 million and a net derivative liability of $34.4 million. The Company is not required to pledge, nor is the Company entitled to receive, cash collateral for these derivative transactions.








Concentrations of Credit Risk

Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash and cash equivalents, investments, restricted cash and investments, trade accounts receivable, and derivative financial instruments used in hedging activities. Cash is placed on deposit at large global financial institutions. Such deposits may be in excess of insured limits. Management believes that the financial institutions that hold the Company’s cash are creditworthy and, accordingly, minimal credit risk exists with respect to these balances.

The Company’s overall portfolio of available-for-sale securities must maintain an average minimum rating of “AA-” or “Aa3” as rated by Standard and Poor’s, Fitch Ratings, or Moody’s Investor Services. To ensure diversification and minimize concentration, the Company’s policy limits the amount of credit exposure with any one financial institution or commercial issuer.

The Company is exposed to credit losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties on foreign currency and interest rate hedge contracts that are used to mitigate the effect of exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations, and on contracts related to structured share repurchase arrangements. These counterparties are large global financial institutions and, to date, no such counterparty has failed to meet its financial obligations to the Company.


NOTE 9 — INVENTORIES 



NOTE 10 — GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS

Goodwill

The balance of goodwill is approximately $1.5 billion as of March 31, 2019 and June 24, 2018, respectively. As of March 31, 2019, $61.1 million of the goodwill balance is tax deductible and the remaining balance is not tax deductible due to purchase accounting and applicable foreign law.

Intangible Assets



The Company recognized $36.6 million and $40.8 million in intangible asset amortization expense during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and March 25, 2018. During the nine months ended March 31, 2019 and March 25, 2018, the Company recognized $109.4 million and $120.9 million, respectively, in intangible asset amortization expense. 



NOTE 11 — ACCRUED EXPENSES AND OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES



NOTE 12 — LONG-TERM DEBT AND OTHER BORROWINGS






Convertible Senior Notes

In June 2012, with the acquisition of Novellus Systems, Inc., the Company assumed $700 million in aggregate principal amount of 2.625% Convertible Senior Notes due May 15, 2041 (the “2041 Notes,”). The Company pays cash interest at an annual rate of 2.625%, on a semi-annual basis on May 15 and November 15 of each year. The 2041 Notes also have a contingent interest payment provision that may require the Company to pay additional interest, up to 0.60% per year, based on certain thresholds, beginning with the semi-annual interest payment on May 15, 2021, and upon the occurrence of certain events, as outlined in the indenture governing the 2041 Notes.

The Company separately accounts for the liability and equity components of the 2041 Notes. The initial debt components of the 2041 Notes were valued based on the present value of the future cash flows using the Company’s borrowing rate at the date of the issuance or assumption for similar debt instruments without the conversion feature, which equals the effective interest rate on the liability component disclosed in the table below, respectively. The equity component was initially valued equal to the principle value of the notes, less the present value of the future cash flows using the Company’s borrowing rate at the date of the issuance or assumption for similar debt instruments without a conversion feature, which equated to the initial debt discount.

The 2041 Notes may be redeemed on or after May 21, 2021 at a price equal to outstanding principal plus accrued and unpaid interest if the last reported sales price of common shares has been equal to or more than 150% of the then applicable conversion price for at least 20 trading days during the 30 consecutive trading days prior to the redemption notice date. 

Under certain circumstances, the 2041 Notes may be converted into shares of the Company’s Common Stock. The number of shares each debenture is convertible into is based on conversion rates, disclosed in the table below. The principal value of the 2041 Note conversions in the three and nine months ended March 31, 2019, was approximately $29.2 million and $114.6 million, respectively. 



Convertible Warrants

During the fiscal year 2019, the Company had warrants outstanding in connection with its 2018 convertible notes that matured in May 2018. The 7.6 million warrants were fully exercised during the first half of fiscal year 2019 resulting in the issuance of approximately 4.1 million shares of the Company's Common Stock.

Senior Notes

On March 4, 2019, the company completed a public offering of $750 million aggregate principal amount of the Company’s Senior Notes due March 15, 2026 (the “2026 Notes”), $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of the Company’s Senior Notes due March 15, 2029 (the “2029 Notes”), and $750 million aggregate principal amount of the Company’s Senior Notes due March 15, 2049 (the “2049 Notes”). The Company will pay interest at an annual rate of 3.75%, 4.00%, and 4.875%, on the 2026, 2029, and 2049 Notes, respectively, on a semi-annual basis on March 15 and September 15 of each year beginning September 15, 2019.

On March 12, 2015, the Company completed a public offering of $500 million aggregate principal amount of the Company’s Senior Notes due March 15, 2020 (the “2020 Notes”) and $500 million aggregate principal amount of the Company’s Senior Notes due March 15, 2025 (the “2025 Notes”). The Company pays interest at an annual rate of 2.75% and 3.80%, on the 2020 Notes and 2025 Notes, respectively, on a semi-annual basis on March 15 and September 15 of each year. During the year ended June 26, 2016, the Company entered into a series of interest rate contracts hedging the fair value of a portion of the 2025 Notes par value, whereby the Company receives a fixed rate and pays a variable rate based on a certain benchmark interest rate. Refer to Note 8 - Financial Instruments for additional information regarding these interest rate contracts. 

On June 7, 2016, the Company completed a public offering of $800 million aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes due June 15, 2021 (the “2021 Notes”). The Company pays interest at an annual rate of 2.80% on the 2021 Notes on a semi-annual basis on June 15 and December 15 of each year. 

The Company may redeem the 2020, 2021, 2025, 2026, 2029 and 2049 Notes (collectively the “Senior Notes”) at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of such series (“par”), plus a “make whole” premium as described in the indenture in respect to the Senior Notes and accrued and unpaid interest before February 15, 2020, for the 2020 Notes, before May 15, 2021 for the 2021 Notes, before December 15, 2024 for the 2025 Notes, before January 15, 2026 for the 2026 Notes, before December 15, 2028 for the 2029 Notes, and before September 15, 2048 for the 2049 Notes. The Company may redeem the Senior Notes at par, plus accrued and unpaid interest at any time on or after February 15, 2020, for the 2020 Notes, on or after May 15, 2021 for the 2021 Notes, on or after December 24, 2024 for the 2025 Notes, on or after January 15, 2026 for the 2026 Notes, on or after December 15, 2028 for the 2029 Notes, and on or after September 15, 2048 for the 2049 Notes. In addition, upon the occurrence of certain events, as described in the indenture, the Company will be required to make an offer to repurchase the Senior Notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the respective note, plus accrued and unpaid interest.



Commercial Paper Program

On November 13, 2017, the Company established a commercial paper program (“the CP Program”) under which the Company may issue unsecured commercial paper notes on a private placement basis up to a maximum aggregate principal amount of $1.25 billion. The net proceeds from the commercial paper program will be used for general corporate purposes, including repurchases of the Company’s Common Stock from time to time under the Company’s stock repurchase program. Amounts available under the CP Program may be re-borrowed. The CP Program is backstopped by the Company’s Revolving Credit Arrangement. As of March 31, 2019, borrowings under the CP Program totaled $300.0 million, with a weighted-average interest rate of 3.00% and maturities of 90 days or less.

Revolving Credit Facility

On March 12, 2014, the Company established an unsecured Credit Agreement; this agreement was amended on November 10, 2015 (the “Amended and Restated Credit Agreement”), October 13, 2017 (the 2nd Amendment”), and February 25, 2019 (the “3rd Amendment”). Under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (as amended by the 2nd and 3rd Amendment), the Company has a revolving credit facility of $1.25 billion with a syndicate of lenders with an expansion option that will allow the Company, subject to certain requirements, to request an increase in the facility of up to an additional $600 million, for a potential total commitment of $1.85 billion. The facility matures on October 13, 2022.

Interest on amounts borrowed under the credit facility is, at the Company’s option, based on (1) a base rate, defined as the greatest of (a) prime rate, (b) Federal Funds rate plus 0.5%, or (c) one-month LIBOR plus 1.0%, plus a spread of 0.0% to 0.5%, or (2) LIBOR multiplied by the statutory rate, plus a spread of 0.9% to 1.50% in each case as the applicable spread is determined based on the rating of the Company’s non-credit enhanced, senior unsecured long-term debt. Principal and any accrued and unpaid interest is due and payable upon maturity. Additionally, the Company will pay the lenders a quarterly commitment fee that varies based on the Company’s credit rating. The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement contains affirmative covenants, negative covenants, financial covenants and events of default. As of March 31, 2019, the Company had no borrowings outstanding under the credit facility and was in compliance with all financial covenants.

Interest Cost

The following table presents the amount of interest cost recognized relating to both the contractual interest coupon and amortization of the debt discount, issuance costs, and effective portion of interest rate contracts with respect to the Senior Notes, convertible notes, the term loan agreement, commercial paper, and the revolving credit facility during the three and nine months ended March 31, 2019 and March 25, 2018.


NOTE 13 — COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

Operating Leases and Related Guarantees


The Company has operating leases regarding certain improved properties in Fremont and Livermore, California (the “Operating Leases”). The Company was required to maintain cash collateral in an aggregate of approximately $250.0 million in separate interest-bearing accounts as security for the Company’s obligations. These amounts are recorded with other restricted cash and investments in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of March 31, 2019.

During the term of the Operating Leases and when the terms of the Operating Leases expire, the property subject to those Operating Leases may be remarketed. The Company has guaranteed to the lessor that each property will have a certain minimum residual value. The aggregate guarantee made by the Company under the Operating Leases is generally no more than approximately $220.4 million; however, under certain default circumstances, the guarantee with regard to an Operating Lease may be 100% of the lessor’s aggregate investment in the applicable property, which in no case will exceed $250.0 million, in the aggregate.

Other Guarantees

The Company has issued certain indemnifications to its lessors for taxes and general liability under some of its agreements. The Company has entered into certain insurance contracts that are intended to limit its exposure to such indemnifications. As of March 31, 2019, the Company had not recorded any liability in connection with these indemnifications, as it does not believe that it is probable that any amounts will be paid under these guarantees.

Generally, the Company indemnifies, under pre-determined conditions and limitations, its customers for infringement of third party intellectual property rights by the Company’s products or services. The Company seeks to limit its liability for such indemnity to an amount not to exceed the sales price of the products or services subject to its indemnification obligations. The Company does not believe that it is probable that any material amounts will be paid under these guarantees.

The Company provides guarantees and standby letters of credit to certain parties as required for certain transactions initiated during the ordinary course of business. As of March 31, 2019, the maximum potential amount of future payments that it could be required to make under these arrangements and letters of credit was $27.2 million. The Company does not believe, based on historical experience and information currently available, that it is probable that any amounts will be required to be paid.

In addition, the Company has entered into indemnification agreements with its officers and directors, consistent with its Bylaws and Articles of Incorporation; and under California law, the Company is required to provide indemnification to all its employees for actions within the scope of their employment. Although the Company maintains insurance contracts that cover some of the potential liability associated with these indemnification agreements, there is no guarantee that all such liabilities will be 

covered. The Company does not believe, based on historical experience and information currently available, that it is probable that any material amounts will be required to be paid under such indemnification agreements or statutory obligations.

Warranties

The Company provides standard warranties on its systems. The liability amount is based on actual historical warranty spending activity by type of system, customer, and geographic region, modified for any known differences such as the impact of system reliability improvements.



Legal proceedings

While the Company is not currently a party to any legal proceedings that it believes are material, the Company is either a defendant or plaintiff in various actions that have arisen from time to time in the normal course of business, including intellectual property claims. The Company accrues for a liability when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the determination as to whether a loss is reasonably estimable. Based on current information, the Company does not believe that a material loss from known matters is probable and therefore has not recorded an accrual of any material amount for litigation or other contingencies related to existing legal proceedings.

NOTE 14 — STOCK REPURCHASE PROGRAM

In November 2018, the Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase up to an additional $5.0 billion of Common Stock. These repurchases can be conducted on the open market or as private purchases and may include the use of derivative contracts with large financial institutions, in all cases subject to compliance with applicable law. This repurchase program has no termination date and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. Funding for this repurchase program may be through a combination of cash on hand, cash generation, and borrowings. 





In addition to the shares repurchased under the Board-authorized repurchase program shown above, during the three and nine months ended March 31, 2019, the Company acquired 423 thousand shares at a total cost of $74.8 million and 447 thousand shares at a total cost of $78.5 million, respectively, which the Company withheld through net settlements to cover minimum tax withholding obligations upon the vesting of restricted stock unit awards granted under the Company’s equity compensation 

plans. The shares retained by the Company through these net share settlements are not a part of the Board-authorized repurchase program but instead are authorized under the Company’s equity compensation plan.

Accelerated Share Repurchase Agreements 

On January 31, 2019, the Company entered into two separate accelerated share repurchase agreements (collectively, the "January 2019 ASR") with two financial institutions to repurchase a total of $760 million of Common Stock. The Company took an initial delivery of approximately 3.3 million shares, which represented 75% of the prepayment amount divided by the Company’s closing stock price on January 30, 2019. The total number of shares received under the January 2019 ASR will be based upon the average daily volume weighted average price of the Company’s Common Stock during the repurchase period, less an agreed upon discount. Final settlement of the January 2019 ASR is anticipated to occur no later than June 5, 2019.

On August 15, 2018, the Company entered into four separate accelerated share repurchase agreements (collectively, the "August 2018 ASR") with two financial institutions to repurchase a total of $1.4 billion of Common Stock. The Company took an initial delivery of approximately 5.8 million shares, which represented 75% of the prepayment amount divided by the Company’s closing stock price on August 14, 2018. The total number of shares received under the August 2018 ASR was based upon the average daily volume weighted average price of the Company’s Common Stock during the repurchase period, less an agreed upon discount. Final settlement of two of the agreements occurred during the quarter ended December 23, 2018. Approximately 1.7 million shares were received at final settlement, which resulted in a weighted-average share price of approximately $148.72 for the transaction period. The remaining two agreements settled during the quarter ended March 31, 2019, resulting in the receipt of approximately 1.8 million additional shares, which yielded a weighted-average share price of approximately $146.00 for the transaction period. 

NOTE 15 — ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE LOSS





ITEM 2.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

With the exception of historical facts, the statements contained in this discussion are forward-looking statements, which are subject to the safe harbor provisions created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain, but not all, of the forward-looking statements in this report are specifically identified as forward-looking, by use of phrases and words such as “believe,” “estimated,” “anticipate,” “expect,” “probable,” “intend,” “plan,” “aim,” “may,” “should,” “could,” “would,” “will,” “continue,” and other future-oriented terms. The identification of certain statements as “forward-looking” does not mean that other statements not specifically identified are not forward-looking. Forward-looking statements include but are not limited to statements that relate to: trends and opportunities in the global economic environment and the semiconductor industry; the anticipated levels of, and rates of change in, margins, market share, served addressable market, capital expenditures, research and development expenditures, international sales, revenue (actual and/or deferred), operating expenses and earnings generally; management’s plans and objectives for our current and future operations and business focus; volatility in our quarterly results; customer and end user requirements and our ability to satisfy those requirements; customer capital spending and their demand for our products and services, and the reliability of indicators of change in customer spending and demand; the effect of variability in our customers’ business plans or demand for our equipment and services; changes in demand for our products and in our market share resulting from, among other things, any change in our customers’ proportion of capital expenditure (with respect to certain technology inflections); hedging transactions; debt or financing arrangements; our competition, our ability to defend our market share, and to gain new market share; our ability to obtain and qualify alternative sources of supply; changes in state, federal and international tax laws, our estimated annual tax rate and the factors that affect our tax rates; anticipated growth or decline in the industry and the total market for wafer fabrication equipment, our growth relative thereto and the resulting impact on us from such growth or decline; the success of joint development and collaboration relationships with customers, suppliers, or others; outsourced activities; the role of component suppliers in our business; our leadership and competency, and their ability to facilitate innovation; our ability to continue to, including the underlying factors that, create sustainable differentiation; the resources invested to comply with evolving standards and the impact of such efforts; legal and regulatory compliance; the estimates we make, and the accruals we record, in order to implement our critical accounting policies (including but not limited to the adequacy of prior tax payments, future tax benefits or liabilities, and the adequacy of our accruals relating to them); our investment portfolio; our access to capital markets; uses of, payments of, and impact of interest rate fluctuations on, our debt; our intention to pay quarterly dividends and the amounts thereof, if any; our ability and intention to repurchase our shares; credit risks; controls and procedures; recognition or amortization of expenses; our ability to manage and grow our cash position; and the sufficiency of our financial resources or liquidity to support future business activities (including but not limited to operations, investments, debt service requirements, and capital expenditures). Such statements are based on current expectations and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and changes in condition, significance, value, and effect, including without limitation those discussed below under the heading “Risk Factors” within Part II Item 1A and elsewhere in this report and other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), such as our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 24, 2018 (our “2018 Form 10-K”), our quarterly report on form 10-Q for the fiscal quarters ended September 23, 2018 and December 23, 2018, and our current reports on Form 8-K. Such risks, uncertainties, and changes in condition, significance, value, and effect could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in this report and in ways not readily foreseeable. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof and are based on information currently and reasonably known to us. We do not undertake any obligation to release the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements, which may be made to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this report or to reflect the occurrence or effect of anticipated or unanticipated events.

Documents To Review In Connection With Management’s Discussion and Analysis Of Financial Condition and Results Of Operations

For a full understanding of our financial position and results of operations for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2019, and the related Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations below, you should also read the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and notes presented in this Form 10-Q and the financial statements and notes in our 2018 Form 10-K.

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

Lam Research Corporation is a global supplier of innovative wafer fabrication equipment and services to the semiconductor industry. We have built a strong global presence with core competencies in areas like nanoscale applications enablement, chemistry, plasma and fluidics, advanced systems engineering and a broad range of operational disciplines. Our products and 

services are designed to help our customers build smaller, faster, and better performing devices that are used in a variety of electronic products, including mobile phones, personal computers, servers, wearables, automotive devices, storage devices, and networking equipment.

Our customer base includes leading semiconductor memory, foundry, and integrated device manufacturers that make products such as non-volatile memory, DRAM, and logic devices. We aim to increase our strategic relevance with our customers by contributing more to their continued success. Our core technical competency is integrating hardware, process, materials, software, and process control enabling results on the wafer.

Semiconductor manufacturing, our customers’ business, involves the complete fabrication of multiple dies or integrated circuits on a wafer. This involves the repetition of a set of core processes and can require hundreds of individual steps. Fabricating these devices requires highly sophisticated process technologies to integrate an increasing array of new materials with precise control at the atomic scale. Along with meeting technical requirements, wafer processing equipment must deliver high productivity and be cost-effective.

Demand from the Cloud, Internet of Things, and other markets is driving the need for increasingly powerful and cost-efficient semiconductors. At the same time, there are growing technical challenges with traditional scaling. These trends are driving significant inflections in semiconductor manufacturing, such as the increasing importance of vertical 3D scaling strategies as well as multiple patterning to enable shrinks. 


Despite recent semiconductor capital investment volatility, over the longer term, we believe that technology inflections in our industry, including 3D device scaling, multiple patterning, process flow, and advanced packaging chip integration will lead to an increase in our served addressable market for our products and services in deposition, etch, and clean. While there could be continued variability in the near-term, we believe that demand for our products and services will increase faster than overall spending on wafer fabrication equipment, as the proportion of customers’ capital expenditures rises in these technology inflection areas, and as we continue to gain market share.



In the March 2019 quarter, revenue decreased slightly compared to the December 2018 quarter. Gross margin as a percentage of revenue in the March 2019 quarter declined compared to the December 2018 quarter primarily due to lower factory and field utilization and customer and product mix. The increase in operating expenses in the March 2019 quarter compared to the December 2018 quarter was mainly driven by increases in employee-related costs resulting from seasonal impacts, an extra work week in the quarter, and restructuring charges. Additionally, our March 2019 quarter operating income was negatively impacted primarily by the appreciation of the stock market during the quarter as we incurred additional costs related to our deferred compensation plan liabilities. We have deferred compensation plan-related assets designed to mitigate market valuation exposure to these liabilities, and the market gains for the March 2019 quarter associated with these assets are recognized in other income and expense. 

Our cash and cash equivalents, investments, and restricted cash and investments balances increased to $6.4 billion at the end of the March 2019 quarter compared to $3.9 billion at the end of the December 2018 quarter, primarily due to $2.5 billion of debt 

issuance during the quarter. Cash flow generated by operating activities during the March 2019 quarter of $933 million and a portion of the proceeds on debt issuance, were used for $935 million of treasury stock purchases, $171 million of dividends paid to stockholders, and $76 million for capital expenditures. Employee headcount as of March 31, 2019, was approximately 10,800. 

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Revenue


Revenue for the March 2019 quarter decreased 3% from the December 2018 quarter, reflecting lower customer demand for semiconductor equipment. Revenue for the March 2019 quarter decreased 16% compared to the same prior year period, and decreased 8% in the nine months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018, reflecting lower customer demand for semiconductor equipment.

Our deferred revenue balance at March 31, 2019 decreased to $441 million, as compared to $493 million as of December 23, 2018. Our deferred revenue balance does not include system shipments to customers in Japan, for which title does not transfer until customer acceptance. Shipments to customers in Japan are classified as inventory at cost until the time of acceptance. The estimated future revenue value from shipments to customers in Japan was approximately $80 million as of March 31, 2019, and $262 million as of December 23, 2018.



Gross Margin


Gross margin as a percentage of revenue reduced in the March 2019 quarter compared to the December 2018 quarter primarily due to lower factory and field utilization, customer and product mix, and deferred compensation plan-related costs. The decrease in gross margin as a percentage of revenue in the March 2019 quarter compared to the March 2018 quarter is primarily due to lower factory utilization and changes in customer and product mix. In the nine months ended March 31, 2019, gross margin as a percentage of revenue decreased compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to lower factory utilization. 

Research and Development





Selling, General, and Administrative





Other Income (Expense), Net



Interest income increased in the March 2019 quarter compared to the December 2018 quarter as a result of higher cash balances and higher yield. Interest income increased compared to the March 2018 quarter as a result of higher yield. Interest income increased in the nine months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018 as a result of higher yield.

Interest expense increased in the March 2019 quarter compared to the December 2018 and March 2018 quarters primarily due to the issuance of $2.5 billion of senior notes. Interest expense was slightly lower in the nine months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to the same period in the prior year due to the retirement of the 2018 Notes and partial conversions of the 2041 Notes, partially offset by the issuance of $2.5 billion of senior notes.

Significant changes in the market value of securities in the portfolio drove the gains on assets related to obligations under our deferred compensation plan in the March 2019 quarter compared to the December 2018 and March 2018 quarters.


Foreign exchange fluctuations are primarily due to currency movements against portions of our unhedged balance sheet exposures.

Other, net resulted in higher income during the March 2019 quarter compared to the December 2018 and March 2018 quarters primarily due to a decrease in charitable contributions and gain from equity investments. Other, net resulted in lower expense during the nine months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year due to proceeds from insurance claims.

Income Tax Expense


The below discussion around the provision for income taxes and effective tax rate are significantly impacted by U.S. tax reform.



The decrease in the effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three months ended December 23, 2018 was primarily due to the final tax expense adjustment under SAB 118 to the U.S. tax reform mandated one-time transition tax on accumulated unrepatriated foreign earnings in the three months ended December 23, 2018, and stock-based compensation excess tax benefits in the three months ended March 31, 2019.

The increase in the effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three months ended March 25, 2018 was primarily due to the impact of U.S. taxation on low-taxed foreign intangible income applicable beginning in fiscal year 2019.

The decrease in the effective tax rate for the nine months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the nine months ended March 25, 2018 was primarily due to the reduction of the federal statutory tax rate and the impact of U.S. taxation on low-taxed foreign intangible income applicable beginning in fiscal year 2019, and the impact of the U.S. tax reform mandated one-time transition tax expense on accumulated unrepatriated foreign earnings in the nine months ended March 25, 2018.

International revenues account for a significant portion of our total revenues, such that a material portion of our pre-tax income is earned and taxed outside the United States. Due to the GILTI provisions described in Note 6 - Income Taxes, international pre-tax income is taxable in the United States at a lower effective tax rate than the federal statutory tax rate. Please refer to Note 6, “Income Taxes,” to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of our 2018 Form 10-K for additional information.

Uncertain Tax Positions

We reevaluate uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis. This evaluation is based on factors including, but not limited to, changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, effectively settled issues under audit, and new audit activity. Any change in recognition or measurement would result in the recognition of a tax benefit or an additional charge to the tax provision.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES


•the recognition and valuation of revenue from arrangements with multiple performance obligations which impacts revenue;

•the valuation of inventory, which impacts gross margin;

•the valuation of warranty reserves, which impacts gross margin;

•the recognition and measurement of current and deferred income taxes, including the measurement of uncertain tax positions, which impact our provision for income tax expenses; and

•the valuation and recoverability of long-lived assets, which impacts gross margin and operating expenses when we record asset impairments or accelerate their depreciation or amortization.

We believe that the following critical accounting policies reflect the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements regarding the critical accounting estimates indicated above. 





We recognize the benefit from a tax position only if it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon audit based solely on the technical merits of the tax position. Our policy is to include interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense.


The process of evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill is subjective and requires significant judgment at many points during the analysis. We determine the fair value of our reporting units by using an income approach. Under the income approach, we determine fair value based on estimated future cash flows of each reporting unit, discounted by an estimated weighted-average cost of capital, which reflects the overall level of inherent risk of a reporting unit and the rate of return an outside investor would expect to earn.

In estimating the fair value of a reporting unit, we make estimates and judgments about the future cash flows of our reporting units, including estimated growth rates and assumptions about the economic environment. Although our cash flow forecasts are based on assumptions that are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying businesses, there is significant judgment involved in determining the cash flows attributable to a reporting unit. In addition, we make certain judgments about allocating shared assets to the estimated balance sheets of our reporting units. Changes in judgment on these assumptions and estimates could result in a goodwill impairment charge.


For other long-lived assets, we routinely consider whether indicators of impairment are present. If such indicators are present, we determine whether the sum of the estimated undiscounted cash flows attributable to the assets is less than their carrying value. If the sum is less, we recognize an impairment loss based on the excess of the carrying amount of the assets over their respective fair values. Fair value is determined by discounted future cash flows, appraisals or other methods. We recognize an impairment charge to the extent the present value of anticipated net cash flows attributable to the asset are less than the asset’s carrying value. The fair value of the asset then becomes the asset’s new carrying value, which we depreciate over the remaining estimated useful life of the asset. Assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value. 

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

For a description of recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our condensed consolidated financial statements, see Note 2 - Recent Accounting Pronouncements, of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part 1 of this Form 10-Q.

 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Total gross cash and cash equivalents, investments, and restricted cash and investments (together comprising total cash and investments) were $6.4 billion at March 31, 2019 compared to $5.2 billion as of June 24, 2018. This increase was primarily due to cash provided by operating activities and the issuance of $2.5 billion of senior notes, partially offset by Common Stock repurchases in connection with our stock repurchase program and dividends paid. 

Cash Flow from Operating Activities




Cash Flow from Investing Activities

Net cash used for investing activities during the nine months ended March 31, 2019, was $1.0 billion, primarily consisting of capital expenditures of $237.5 million, along with net purchases of available-for-sale securities of $770.7 million. 

Cash Flow from Financing Activities

Net cash used for financing activities during the nine months ended March 31, 2019, was $862.2 million, primarily consisting of $2.7 billion in treasury stock repurchases, $178.3 million of cash paid for debt repayment, and $513.5 million in dividends paid, partially offset by $2.5 billion in net proceeds from issuance of long term debt. 

Liquidity


On March 4, 2019, we completed a public offering of $750 million aggregate principal amount of the Company’s Senior Notes due March 15, 2026 (the “2026 Notes”), $1 billion aggregate principal amount of the Company’s Senior Notes due March 15, 2029 (the “2029 Notes”), and $750 million aggregate principal amount of the Company’s Senior Notes due March 15, 2049 (the “2049 Notes”, collectively with the 2026 and 2029 Notes, the “Senior Notes issued in 2019”). We will pay interest at an annual rate of 3.75%, 4.00%, and 4.875%, respectively on the 2026, 2029 and 2049 Notes, on a semi-annual basis on March 15 and September 15 of each year, beginning September 15, 2019.

We may redeem the Senior Notes issued in 2019 at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of such series (“par”), plus a “make whole” premium as described in the indenture in respect to the Senior Notes and accrued and unpaid interest before January 15, 2026, for the 2026 Notes, before December 15, 2028, for the 2029 Notes, and before September 15, 2048, for the 2049 Notes. We may redeem the Senior Notes at par, plus accrued and unpaid interest at any time on or after January 15, 2026 for the 2026 Notes, December 15, 2028 for the 2029 Notes, and on or after September 15, 2048 for the 2049 Notes. In addition, upon the occurrence of certain events, as described in the indenture, we will be required to make an offer to repurchase the Senior Notes issued in 2019 at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the Senior Notes issued in 2019, plus accrued and unpaid interest. 

Under certain circumstances, our 2041 Notes may be converted and settled in cash and shares of our Common Stock. During the nine months ended March 31, 2019, approximately $114.6 million principal value of convertible 2041 Notes were converted. We expect to have sufficient levels of cash, cash equivalents, and short term investments to fund the near-term settlement of these Convertible Notes.

During the December 2017 quarter, a one-time transition tax on accumulated unrepatriated foreign earnings, estimated at $991 million, was recognized associated with the December 2017 U.S. tax reform. In accordance with SAB 118, we have now finalized the amount of the transition tax during the period ended December 23, 2018. The final amount is $868.4 million. The Company elected to pay the one-time transition tax over a period of eight years with 8% of the transition tax to be paid each September 15 for years 2018 through 2022, and 15%, 20%, and 25%, respectively, to be paid each September 15 for years 2023 through 2025.

In the longer term, liquidity will depend to a great extent on our future revenues and our ability to appropriately manage our costs based on demand for our products and services. While we have substantial cash balances, we may require additional funding and need or choose to raise the required funds through borrowings or public or private sales of debt or equity securities. We believe that, if necessary, we will be able to access the capital markets on terms and in amounts adequate to meet our objectives. However, given the possibility of changes in market conditions or other occurrences, there can be no assurance that such funding will be available in needed quantities or on terms favorable to us.

ITEM 3.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

For financial market risks related to changes in interest rates, marketable equity security prices, and foreign currency exchange rates, refer to Part II, Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk”, in our 2018 Form 10-K. Other than noted below, our exposure related to market risk has not changed materially since June 24, 2018. All of the potential changes noted below are based on sensitivity analysis performed on our financial position as of March 31, 2019. Actual results may differ materially.

Fixed Income Securities

Our investments in various interest earning securities carry a degree of market risk for changes in interest rates. At any time, a sharp rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our fixed income investment portfolio. Conversely, declines in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on interest income for our investment portfolio. We target to maintain a conservative investment policy, which focuses on the safety and preservation of our capital by limiting default risk, market risk, reinvestment risk, and concentration risk. 



We mitigate default risk by investing in high credit quality securities and by positioning our portfolio to respond appropriately to a significant reduction in a credit rating of any investment issuer or guarantor. The portfolio includes only marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets to achieve portfolio liquidity and maintain a prudent amount of diversification.

ITEM 4.Controls and Procedures

Design of Disclosure Controls and Procedures and Internal Control over Financial Reporting

We maintain disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over final reporting that are designed to comply with Rule 13a-15 of the Exchange Act. In designing and evaluating the controls and procedures associated with each, management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives, and that the effectiveness of controls cannot be absolute because the cost to design and implement a control to identify errors or mitigate the risk of errors occurring should not outweigh the potential loss caused by the errors that would likely be detected by the control. Moreover, we believe that a control system cannot be guaranteed to be 100% effective all of the time. Accordingly, a control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met.

Disclosure Controls and Procedures

As required by Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(b), as of March 31, 2019, we carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rule 13a-15(e). Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer, along with our Chief Financial Officer, concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective at the reasonable assurance level.

We intend to review and evaluate the design and effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures on an ongoing basis and to correct any material deficiencies that we may discover. Our goal is to ensure that our senior management has timely access to material information that could affect our business.

Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting

There has been no change in our internal control over financial reporting during our most recent fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

Effectiveness of Controls

While we believe the present design of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting is effective, future events affecting our business may cause us to modify our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting.

PART II.OTHER INFORMATION

ITEM 1.Legal Proceedings

While we are not currently a party to any legal proceedings that we believe are material, we are either a defendant or plaintiff in various actions that have arisen from time to time in the normal course of business, including intellectual property claims. We accrue for a liability when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the determination as to whether a loss is reasonably estimable. Based on current information, we do not believe that a material loss from known matters is probable and therefore have not recorded an accrual of any material amount for litigation or other contingencies related to existing legal proceedings.

ITEM 1A.Risk Factors

In addition to the other information in this Form 10-Q, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating us and our business because such factors may significantly impact our business, operating results, and financial condition. As a result of these risk factors, as well as other risks discussed in our other SEC filings, our actual results could differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. No priority or significance is intended, nor should be attached, to the order in which the risk factors appear.

The Semiconductor Capital Equipment Industry Is Subject to Variability and Periods of Rapid Growth or Decline; We Therefore Face Risks Related to Our Strategic Resource Allocation Decisions

The semiconductor capital equipment industry has historically been characterized by rapid changes in demand. The industry environment has moved toward being more characterized by variability across segments and customers accentuated by consolidation within the industry. Variability in our customers’ business plans may lead to changes in demand for our equipment and services, which could negatively impact our results. The variability in our customers’ investments during any particular period is dependent on several factors, including but not limited to electronics demand, economic conditions (both general and in the semiconductor and electronics industries), industry supply and demand, prices for semiconductors, and our customers’ ability to develop and manufacture increasingly complex and costly semiconductor devices. The changes in demand may require our management to adjust spending and other resources allocated to operating activities.

During periods of rapid growth or decline in demand for our products and services, we face significant challenges in maintaining adequate financial and business controls, management processes, information systems, and procedures for training, assimilating, and managing our workforce, and in appropriately sizing our supply chain infrastructure and facilities, work force, and other components of our business on a timely basis. If we do not adequately meet these challenges during periods of increasing or declining demand, our gross margins and earnings may be negatively impacted.


Especially during transitional periods, resource allocation decisions can have a significant impact on our future performance, particularly if we have not accurately anticipated industry changes. Our success will depend, to a significant extent, on the ability of our executive officers and other members of our senior management to identify and respond to these challenges effectively.

Future Declines in the Semiconductor Industry, and the Overall World Economic Conditions on Which It Is Significantly Dependent, Could Have a Material Adverse Impact on Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition


•a decline in demand for our products or services;

•an increase in reserves on accounts receivable due to our customers’ inability to pay us;

•an increase in reserves on inventory balances due to excess or obsolete inventory as a result of our inability to sell such inventory;

•valuation allowances on deferred tax assets;

•restructuring charges;

•asset impairments including the potential impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets;

•a decline in the value of our investments;

•exposure to claims from our suppliers for payment on inventory that is ordered in anticipation of customer purchases that do not come to fruition;

•a decline in the value of certain facilities we lease to less than our residual value guarantee with the lessor; and

•challenges maintaining reliable and uninterrupted sources of supply.


Our Quarterly Revenues and Operating Results Are Variable


•economic conditions in the electronics and semiconductor industries in general and specifically the semiconductor equipment industry;

•the size and timing of orders from customers;

•consolidation of the customer base, which may result in the investment decisions of one customer or market having a significant effect on demand for our products or services;

•procurement shortages;

•the failure of our suppliers or outsource providers to perform their obligations in a manner consistent with our expectations;

•manufacturing difficulties;


•the extent that customers continue to purchase and use our products and services in their business;

•our customers’ reuse of existing and installed products, to the extent that such reuse decreases their need to purchase new products or services;

•changes in average selling prices, customer mix, and product mix;

•our ability to develop, introduce, and market new, enhanced, and competitive products in a timely manner;

•our competitors’ introduction of new products;

•legal or technical challenges to our products and technologies;

•transportation, communication, demand, information technology, or supply disruptions based on factors outside our control, such as strikes, acts of God, wars, terrorist activities, and natural or man-made disasters;


•changes in our estimated effective tax rate;

•foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; and

•the dilutive impact of our Convertible Notes (as defined below) on our earnings per share.

We May Incur Impairments to Goodwill or Long-lived Assets

We review our long-lived assets, including goodwill and intangible assets identified in business combinations and other intangible assets, for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable. Negative industry or economic trends, including reduced market prices of our Common Stock, reduced estimates of future cash flows, disruptions to our business, slower growth rates, or lack of growth in our relevant business units, could lead to impairment charges against our long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets. If, in any period, our stock price decreases to the point where our fair value, as determined by our market capitalization, is less than the book value of our assets, this could also indicate a potential impairment, and we may be required to record an impairment charge in that period, which could adversely affect our result of operations. 

Our valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on historical experience and to rely heavily on projections of future operating performance. We operate in a highly competitive environment and projections of future operating results and cash flows may vary significantly from actual results. Additionally, if our analysis indicates potential impairment to goodwill in one or more of our business units, we may be required to record additional charges to earnings in our financial statements, which could negatively affect our results of operations.

Our Leverage and Debt Service Obligations and Potential Note Conversion or Related Hedging Activities May Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition, Results of Operations, and Earnings per Share

We have $4.8 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes, convertible notes, and commercial paper instruments outstanding. Additionally, we have funding available to us under our $1.25 billion commercial paper program and our $1.25 billion revolving credit facility, which serves as a backstop to our commercial paper program. Our revolving credit facility also includes an option to increase the amount up to an additional $600.0 million, for a potential total commitment of $1.85 billion. We may, in the future, decide to enter into additional debt arrangements.

In addition, we have entered, and in the future may enter, into derivative instrument arrangements to hedge against the variability of cash flows due to changes in the benchmark interest rate of fixed rate debt. We could be exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to our derivative instruments.


•risk associated with any inability to satisfy our obligations;

•a portion of our cash flows that may have to be dedicated to interest and principal payments and may not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions, or general corporate or other purposes; and

•impairing our ability to obtain additional financing in the future.

Our ability to meet our expenses and debt obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory, and other factors. Furthermore, our operations may not generate sufficient cash flows to enable us to meet our expenses and service our debt. As a result, we may need to enter into new financing arrangements to obtain the necessary funds. If we determine it is necessary to seek additional funding for any reason, we may not be able to obtain such funding or, if funding is available, obtain it on acceptable terms. If we fail to make a payment on our debt, we could be in default on such debt, and this default could cause us to be in default on our other outstanding indebtedness.

Conversion of our Convertible Notes may cause dilution to our stockholders and to our earnings per share. The number of shares of our Common Stock into which the Convertible Notes are convertible may be adjusted from time to time, including increases in such rates as a result of dividends that we pay to our stockholders. Upon conversion of any Convertible Notes, we will deliver cash in the amount of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes and, with respect to any excess conversion value greater than the principal amount of the Convertible Notes, shares of our Common Stock, which would result in dilution to our stockholders. Prior to the maturity of the Convertible Notes, if the price of our Common Stock exceeds the conversion price, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles require that we report an increase in diluted share count, which would result in lower reported earnings per share. The price of our Common Stock could also be affected by sales of our Common 

Stock by investors who view the Convertible Notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in our company and also by hedging activity that may develop involving our Common Stock by holders of the Convertible Notes.

Our Credit Agreements Contain Covenant Restrictions That May Limit Our Ability to Operate Our Business


•incur additional debt, assume obligations in connection with letters of credit, or issue guarantees;

•create liens;

•enter into transactions with our affiliates;

•sell certain assets; and

•merge or consolidate with any person.

Our ability to comply with these covenants is dependent on our future performance, which will be subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including prevailing economic conditions. In addition, our failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under the Senior Notes, the Convertible Notes, or our other debt, which could permit the holders to accelerate such debt. If any of our debt is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds available to repay such debt, which could materially and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operation.

We Have a Limited Number of Key Customers


We Depend on Creating New Products and Processes and Enhancing Existing Products and Processes for Our Success. Consequently, We Are Subject to Risks Associated with Rapid Technological Change

Rapid technological changes in semiconductor manufacturing processes subject us to increased pressure to develop technological advances that enable those processes. We believe that our future success depends in part upon our ability to develop and offer new products with improved capabilities and to continue to enhance our existing products. If new products or existing products have reliability, quality, design, or safety problems, our performance may be impacted by reduced orders, higher manufacturing costs, delays in acceptance of and payment for new products, and additional service and warranty expenses. We may be unable to develop and manufacture products successfully, or products that we introduce may fail in the marketplace. For more than 25 years, the primary driver of technology advancement in the semiconductor industry has been to shrink the lithography that prints the circuit design on semiconductor chips. That driver could be approaching its technological limit, leading semiconductor manufacturers to investigate more complex changes in multiple technologies in an effort to continue technology development. In the face of uncertainty on which technology solutions will become successful, we will need to focus our efforts on developing the technology changes that are ultimately successful in supporting our customer requirements. Our failure to develop and offer the correct technology solutions in a timely manner with productive and cost-effective products could adversely affect our business in a material way. Our failure to commercialize new products in a timely manner could result in loss of market share, unanticipated costs, and inventory obsolescence, which would adversely affect our financial results.


our sales of existing products and certain jointly developed technologies may be subject to restrictions on our ability to share that technology with other customers, which could limit our market for products incorporating those technologies. Future technologies, processes, or product developments may render our current product offerings obsolete, leaving us with non-competitive products, obsolete inventory, or both. Moreover, customers may adopt new technologies or processes to address the complex challenges associated with next-generation devices. This shift may result in a reduction in the size of our addressable markets or could increase the relative size of markets in which we either do not compete or have relatively low market share.

We Are Subject to Risks Relating to Product Concentration and Lack of Product Revenue Diversification


•a decline in demand for even a limited number of our products,

•a failure to achieve continued market acceptance of our key products,

•export restrictions or other regulatory or legislative actions that could limit our ability to sell those products to key customers or customers within certain markets,

•an improved version of products being offered by a competitor in the markets in which we participate,

•increased pressure from competitors that offer broader product lines,

•technological changes that we are unable to address with our products, or

•a failure to release new or enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis.


Strategic Alliances and Customer Consolidation May Have Negative Effects on Our Business


Similarly, our customers may partner with, or follow the lead of, educational or research institutions that establish processes for accomplishing various tasks or manufacturing steps. If those institutions utilize a competitor’s equipment when they establish those processes, it is likely that customers will tend to use the same equipment in setting up their own manufacturing lines. Even if they select our equipment, the institutions and the customers that follow their lead could impose conditions on acceptance of that equipment, such as adherence to standards and requirements or limitations on how we license our proprietary rights, that increase our costs or require us to take on greater risk. These actions could adversely impact our market share and financial results.

We Depend on a Limited Number of Key Suppliers and Outsource Providers, and We Run the Risk That They Might Not Perform as We Expect

Outsource providers and component suppliers have played and will continue to play a key role in our manufacturing operations, field installation and support, and many of our transactional and administrative functions, such as information technology, facilities management, and certain elements of our finance organization. These providers and suppliers might suffer financial setbacks, be acquired by third parties, become subject to exclusivity arrangements that preclude further business with us, or be unable to meet our requirements or expectation due to their independent business decisions or force majeure events that could interrupt or impair their continued ability to perform as we expect.

Although we attempt to select reputable providers and suppliers and we attempt to secure their performance on terms documented in written contracts, it is possible that one or more of these providers or suppliers could fail to perform as we expect, or fail to secure or protect intellectual property rights, and such failure could have an adverse impact on our business. In some cases, the requirements of our business mandate that we obtain certain components and sub-assemblies included in our products from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. Where practical, we endeavor to establish alternative sources to mitigate the risk that the failure of any single provider or supplier will adversely affect our business, but this is not feasible in all circumstances. There is therefore a risk that a prolonged inability to obtain certain components or secure key services could impair our ability to manage operations, ship products, and generate revenues, which could adversely affect our operating results and damage our customer relationships.

We Face Risks Related to the Disruption of Our Primary Manufacturing Facilities

Our manufacturing facilities are concentrated in a limited number of locations. These locations are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, such as natural or man-made disasters, terrorist activities, disruptions of our information technology resources, utility interruptions, or other events beyond our control. Such disruptions may cause delays in shipping our products, which could result in the loss of business or customer trust, adversely affecting our business and operating results.

Once a Semiconductor Manufacturer Commits to Purchase a Competitor’s Semiconductor Manufacturing Equipment, the Manufacturer Typically Continues to Purchase That Competitor’s Equipment, Making It More Difficult for Us to Sell Our Equipment to That Customer

Semiconductor manufacturers must make a substantial investment to qualify and integrate wafer processing equipment into a semiconductor production line. We believe that once a semiconductor manufacturer selects a particular supplier’s processing equipment, the manufacturer generally relies upon that equipment for that specific production line application for an extended period of time, especially for customers that are more focused on tool reuse. Accordingly, we expect it to be more difficult to sell our products to a given customer if that customer initially selects a competitor’s equipment for the same product line application.

We Face a Challenging and Complex Competitive Environment




Our Future Success Depends Heavily on International Sales and the Management of Global Operations

Non-U.S. sales, as reflected in Part 1 Item 1. Business, accounted for approximately 93%, 93%, and 92% of total revenue in the nine months ended March 31, 2019 and fiscal years 2018, and 2017, respectively. We expect that international sales will continue to account for a substantial majority of our total revenue in future years.


•domestic and international trade policies, practices, relations, disputes and issues;

•domestic and international tariffs and other barriers;


•global or national economic and political conditions;

•changes in currency controls;

•differences in the enforcement of intellectual property and contract rights in varying jurisdictions;

•our ability to respond to customer and foreign government demands for locally sourced systems, spare parts, and services and develop the necessary relationships with local suppliers;

•compliance with U.S. and international laws and regulations affecting foreign operations, including U.S. and international trade restrictions and sanctions, anti-bribery, anti-corruption, environmental, tax, and labor laws;

•fluctuations in interest and foreign currency exchange rates;

•the need for technical support resources in different locations; and

•our ability to secure and retain qualified people, and effectively manage people, in all necessary locations for the successful operation of our business.


We are exposed to potentially adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. The majority of our sales and expenses are denominated in U.S. dollars. However, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations primarily related to revenues denominated in Japanese yen and expenses denominated in euro and Korean won. Currently, we hedge certain anticipated foreign currency cash flows, primarily anticipated revenues denominated in Japanese yen and expenses dominated in euro and Korean won. In addition, we enter into foreign currency hedge contracts to minimize the short-term impact of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, primarily third-party accounts receivables, accounts payables, and intercompany receivables and payables. We believe these are our primary exposures to currency rate fluctuation. We expect to continue to enter into hedging transactions, for the purposes outlined, for the foreseeable future. However, these hedging transactions may not achieve their desired effect because differences between the actual timing of the underlying exposures and our forecasts of those exposures may leave us either over or under hedged on any given transaction. Moreover, by hedging these foreign currency denominated revenues, expenses, monetary assets, and liabilities, we may miss favorable currency trends that would have been advantageous to us but for the hedges. Additionally, we are exposed to short-term foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on non-U.S. dollar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities (other than those currency exposures previously discussed), and currently we do not enter into foreign currency hedge contracts against these exposures. Therefore, we are subject to potential unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations to the extent that we transact business (including intercompany transactions) in these currencies.

The magnitude of our overseas business also affects where our cash is generated. Certain uses of cash, such as share repurchases, payment of dividends, or the repayment of our notes, can usually only be made with onshore cash balances. Since the majority of our cash is generated outside of the United States, this may impact certain business decisions and outcomes.

Our Ability to Attract, Retain, and Motivate Key Employees Is Critical to Our Success

Our ability to compete successfully depends in large part on our ability to attract, retain, and motivate key employees with the appropriate skills, experiences and competencies. This is an ongoing challenge due to intense competition for top talent, fluctuations in industry or business economic conditions, as well as increasing geographic expansion that may require cycles of hiring activity and workforce reductions. Our success in hiring depends on a variety of factors, including the attractiveness of our compensation and benefit programs, global economic or political and industry conditions, our organizational structure, global competition for talent and the availability of qualified employees, the availability of career development opportunities, the ability to obtain necessary authorizations for workers to provide services outside their home countries, and our ability to offer a challenging and rewarding work environment. We periodically evaluate our overall compensation and benefit programs and make adjustments, as appropriate, to maintain or enhance their competitiveness. If we are not able to successfully attract, retain, and motivate key employees, we may be unable to capitalize on market opportunities and our operating results may be materially and adversely affected.

Certain Critical Information Systems, That We Rely on for the Operation of Our Business, and Products That We Sell Are Susceptible to Cybersecurity and Other Threats or Incidents





•The failure of our or our customers’ manufacturing processes;

•Errors in the output of our work or our customers’ work;

•The loss or public exposure of the personal information of our employees or customers;

•The public release of customer orders, financial and business plans, and operational results;

•Exposure to claims from third parties who are adversely impacted by such incidents; 

•Misappropriation or theft of Company, customer, supplier, or other’s assets or resources, and costs associated therewith;

•Diminution in the value of Lam's investment in research, development and engineering; or

•Our failure to meet, or violation of, regulatory or other legal obligations, such as the timely publication or filing of financial statements, tax information and other required communications.

While we have implemented ISO 27001 compliant security procedures and virus protection software, intrusion prevention systems, identity and access control, and emergency recovery processes, and we carefully select our third-party providers of information systems, to mitigate risks to the information systems that we rely on, those mitigation and protection systems cannot be guaranteed to be fail-safe and we may still suffer cyber-related incidents. 

Our Financial Results May Be Adversely Impacted by Higher than Expected Tax Rates or Exposure to Additional Tax Liabilities

We are subject to income, transaction, and other taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions, and significant judgment is required to determine worldwide tax liabilities. The amount of taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect our profitability. As a global company, our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic composition of worldwide earnings and tax regulations governing each region. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the split of earnings between countries with differing statutory tax rates, in the valuation allowance of deferred tax assets, in tax laws, by material audit assessments, or changes in or expirations of agreements with tax authorities. These factors could affect our profitability. In particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the United States, is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income in the United States. 

A Failure to Comply with Environmental Regulations May Adversely Affect Our Operating Results


If We Choose to Acquire or Dispose of Businesses, Product Lines, and Technologies, We May Encounter Unforeseen Costs and Difficulties That Could Impair Our Financial Performance



The Market for Our Common Stock Is Volatile, Which May Affect Our Ability to Raise Capital or Make Acquisitions or May Subject Our Business to Additional Costs


•general market, semiconductor, or semiconductor equipment industry conditions;

•economic or political events, trends, and unexpected developments occurring nationally, globally, or in any of our key sales regions;

•variations in our quarterly operating results and financial condition, including our liquidity;

•variations in our revenues, earnings, or other business and financial metrics from forecasts by us or securities analysts or from those experienced by other companies in our industry;


•government regulations;

•developments in, or claims relating to, patent or other proprietary rights;

•technological innovations and the introduction of new products by us or our competitors;

•commercial success or failure of our new and existing products;

•disruptions of relationships with key customers or suppliers; or

•dilutive impacts of our Convertible Notes.

In addition, the stock market experiences significant price and volume fluctuations. Historically, we have witnessed significant volatility in the price of our Common Stock due in part to the price of and markets for semiconductors. These and other factors have and may again adversely affect the price of our Common Stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In the past, following volatile periods in the price of their stock, many companies became the object of securities class action litigation. If we are sued in a securities class action, we could incur substantial costs, and it could divert management’s attention and resources and have an unfavorable impact on our financial performance and the price for our Common Stock.

Intellectual Property, Indemnity, and Other Claims Against Us Can Be Costly and We Could Lose Significant Rights That Are Necessary to Our Continued Business and Profitability

Third parties may assert infringement, unfair competition, product liability, breach of contract, or other claims against us. From time to time, other persons send us notices alleging that our products infringe their patent or other intellectual property rights. In addition, law enforcement authorities may seek criminal charges relating to intellectual property or other issues. We also face risks of claims arising from commercial and other relationships. In addition, our bylaws and other indemnity obligations provide that we will indemnify officers and members of our Board of Directors against losses that they may incur in legal proceedings resulting from their service to us. From time to time, in the normal course of business, we indemnify third parties with whom we enter into contractual relationships, including customers and suppliers, with respect to certain matters. We have agreed, under certain conditions, to hold these third parties harmless against specified losses, such as those arising from a breach of representations or covenants, other third-party claims that our products when used for their intended purposes infringe the intellectual property rights of such other third parties, or other claims made against certain parties. In such cases, it is our policy either to defend the claims or to negotiate licenses or other settlements on commercially reasonable terms. However, we may be unable in the future to negotiate necessary licenses or reach agreement on other settlements on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and any litigation resulting from these claims by other parties may materially adversely affect our business and financial results, and we may be subject to substantial damage awards and penalties. Moreover, although we have insurance to protect us from certain claims and cover certain losses to our property, such insurance may not cover us for the full amount of any losses, or at all, and may be subject to substantial exclusions and deductibles.

We May Fail to Protect Our Critical Proprietary Technology Rights, Which Could Affect Our Business


We Are Exposed to Various Risks from Our Regulatory Environment



There Can Be No Assurance That We Will Continue to Declare Cash Dividends or Repurchase Our Shares at All or in Any Particular Amounts

Our Board of Directors has declared quarterly dividends since April 2014. Our intent to continue to pay quarterly dividends and to repurchase our shares is subject to capital availability and periodic determinations by our Board of Directors that cash dividends and share repurchases are in the best interest of our stockholders and are in compliance with all laws and agreements applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends by us. Future dividends and share repurchases may also be affected by, among other factors, our views on potential future capital requirements for investments in acquisitions and the funding of our research and development; legal risks; changes in federal, state, and international tax laws or corporate laws; contractual restrictions, such as financial or operating covenants in our debt arrangements; availability of onshore cash flow; and changes to our business model. Our dividend payments and share repurchases may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends or repurchase shares at all or in any particular amounts. A reduction or suspension in our dividend payments or share repurchases could have a negative effect on the price of our Common Stock.

ITEM 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds

Repurchases of Company Shares

In November 2018, the Board of Directors authorized management to repurchase up to an additional $5.0 billion of Common Stock on such terms and conditions as it deems appropriate. These repurchases can be conducted on the open market or as private purchases and may include the use of derivative contracts with large financial institutions, in all cases subject to compliance with applicable law. This repurchase program has no termination date and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. Funding for this repurchase program may be through a combination of cash on hand, cash generation, and borrowings. 






Accelerated Share Repurchase Agreements

On January 31, 2019, we entered into two separate accelerated share repurchase agreements (collectively, the "January 2019 ASR") with two financial institutions to repurchase a total of $760 million of Common Stock. We took an initial delivery of approximately 3.3 million shares, which represented 75% of the prepayment amount divided by our closing stock price on January 30, 2019. The total number of shares received under the January 2019 ASR will be based upon the average daily volume weighted average price of our Common Stock during the repurchase period, less an agreed upon discount. Final settlement of the January 2019 ASR is anticipated to occur no later than June 5, 2019.

On August 15, 2018, we entered into four separate accelerated share repurchase agreements (collectively, the "August 2018 ASR") with two financial institutions to repurchase a total of $1.4 billion of Common Stock. We took an initial delivery of approximately 5.8 million shares, which represented 75% of the prepayment amount divided by our closing stock price on August 14, 2018. The total number of shares received under the August 2018 ASR was based upon the average daily volume weighted average price of our Common Stock during the repurchase period, less an agreed upon discount. Final settlement of two of the agreements occurred during the quarter ended December 23, 2018. Approximately 1.7 million shares were received at final settlement, which resulted in a weighted-average share price of approximately $148.72 for the transaction period. The remaining two agreements settled during the quarter ended March 31, 2019, resulting in the receipt of approximately 1.8 million additional shares, which yielded a weighted-average share price of approximately $146.00 for the transaction period. 

ITEM 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities

None.

ITEM 4.Mine Safety Disclosures

Not applicable.

ITEM 5.Other Information

None.

ITEM 6.Exhibits


LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


