
UNITED STATES 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 




  X       QUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 FOR THE QUARTERLY PERIOD ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2019 OR       


Commission File No. 0-13375 

  LSI Industries Inc.   

  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)    



of incorporation or organization)     (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)    





Indicate by checkmark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to submit such files). 


Indicate by checkmark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 

      Large accelerated filer [ ]    Accelerated filer [ X ]  Emerging growth company [ ]  

      Non-accelerated filer [ ]    Smaller reporting company [ X ]    

If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. 


As of October 25, 2019, there were 26,105,943 shares of the registrant's common stock, no par value per share, outstanding.  

LSI INDUSTRIES INC. 


FOR THE QUARTER ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2019 

INDEX 



PART I. FINANCIAL INFORMATION 

ITEM 1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

LSI INDUSTRIES INC. 

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 



The accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these financial statements. 


LSI INDUSTRIES INC. 

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENS OF NET INCOME 




LSI INDUSTRIES INC. 

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 



The accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these financial statements. 


LSI INDUSTRIES INC. 

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 



The accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these financial statements. 


LSI INDUSTRIES INC. 

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 





LSI INDUSTRIES INC. 

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 



The accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these financial statements. 


 LSI INDUSTRIES INC. 

NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 


NOTE 1 - INTERIM CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

The interim condensed consolidated financial statements are unaudited and are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America for interim financial information, and rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations. In the opinion of management, the interim financial statements include all normal adjustments and disclosures necessary to present fairly the Company’s financial position as of September 30, 2019, the results of its operations for the three month periods ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, and its cash flows for the three month periods ended September 30, 2019 and 2018. These statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and footnotes included in the fiscal 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Financial information as of June 30, 2019 has been derived from the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements. 

NOTE 2 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

A summary of the Company’s significant accounting policies is included in Note 1 to the audited consolidated financial statements of the Company’s fiscal 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Significant changes to our accounting policies as a result of adopting ASU-2014-09 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” (Topic 606) in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and adopting ASU 2016-02, “Leases” in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, which are discussed below. 


The Company recognizes revenue when it satisfies the performance obligations in its customer contracts or purchase orders. Most of the Company’s products have a single performance obligation which is satisfied at a point in time when control is transferred to the customer. Control is generally transferred at time of shipment when title and risk of ownership passes to the customer. For customer contracts with multiple performance obligations, the Company allocates the transaction price and any discounts to each performance obligation based on relative standalone selling prices. Payment terms are typically within 30 to 90 days from the shipping date, depending on our terms with the customer. The Company offers standard warranties that do not represent separate performance obligations. 

Installation is a separate performance obligation, except for our digital signage products. For digital signage products, installation is not a separate performance obligation as the product and installation is the combined item promised in digital signage contracts. The Company is not always responsible for installation of products it sells and has no post-installation responsibilities other than standard warranties. 


●   

Customer specific branded print graphics    

●   

Electrical components based on customer specifications    

●   

Digital signage and related media content    

The Company also offers installation services. Installation revenue is recognized over time as our customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided through the installation process. 



Disaggregation of Revenue 

The Company disaggregates the revenue from contracts with customers by the timing of revenue recognition because the Company believes it best depicts the nature, amount, and timing of our revenue and cash flows. The table presents a reconciliation of the disaggregation by reportable segments. 



Legacy products include lighting fixtures utilizing light sources other than LED technology and printed two- and three-dimensional graphic products. Turnkey services and other includes installation services along with shipping and handling charges. 

Practical Expedients and Exemptions 

●   

The Company’s contracts with customers have an expected duration of one year or less, as such the Company applies the practical expedient to expense sales commissions as incurred and have omitted disclosures on the amount of remaining performance obligations.    

●   

Shipping costs that are not material in context of the delivery of products are expensed as incurred.    

●   

The Company’s accounts receivable balance represents the Company’s unconditional right to receive payment from its customers with contracts. Payments are generally due within 30 to 90 days of completion of the performance obligation and invoicing; therefore, payments do not contain significant financing components.    

●   

The Company collects sales tax and other taxes concurrent with revenue-producing activities which are excluded from revenue. Shipping and handling costs are treated as fulfillment activities and included in cost of products and services sold on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.    


On July 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2014-09. “Revenue from Contracts with Customers,” (Topic 606) using the modified retrospective adoption method which requires a cumulative effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings. This approach was applied to contracts that were not completed as of June 30, 2018. Results for reporting periods beginning July 1, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for the prior period. The Company recorded a net increase to beginning retained earnings of $591,000 on July 1, 2018 due to the cumulative impact of adopting Topic 606, as described below. 



In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued ASU 2016-02, “Leases.” The amended guidance requires an entity to recognize assets and liabilities that arise from leases. The amended guidance is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018, or the Company’s fiscal 2020, with early adoption permitted. The Company adopted this guidance effective July 1, 2019 using a modified-retrospective transition method, under which it elected not to adjust comparative periods. The Company elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the new guidance to not reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification, and initial direct costs. In addition, the Company elected the practical expedient to not separate lease and non-lease component and the accounting policy election to not present leases with an initial term of twelve months or less on the balance sheet. 

The Company’s most significant leases are those relating to its two manufacturing facilities along with a small office space. Besides these three real estate leases, most other leases are insignificant and consist of leases related to a vehicle, forklifts, small tooling, and various office equipment. All of the Company’s leases are operating leases and are included in other long-term assets with the corresponding liability in other long-term liabilities. Lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. The Company used its incremental borrowing rate when determining the present value of lease payments. The adoption of the new lease standard resulted in the recognition of right-of-use assets (ROU assets) of $10.4 million and lease liabilities of 10.8 million which includes the impact of existing deferred rents and tenant improvement allowances on the consolidated balance sheets as of July 1, 2019 for the Company’s real estate leases. The adoption of the standard resulted in no material impact to consolidated statements of operations or consolidated statements of cash flow. (Refer to Note 15) 


The Company has evaluated subsequent events for potential recognition and disclosure through the date the consolidated financial statements were filed. No items were identified during this evaluation that required adjustment to or disclosure in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. 

NOTE 3 - SEGMENT REPORTING INFORMATION 

The accounting guidance on Segment Reporting establishes standards for reporting information regarding operating segments in annual financial statements and requires selected information of those segments to be presented in financial statements. Operating segments are identified as components of an enterprise for which separate discrete financial information is available for evaluation by the chief operating decision maker (the Company’s Chief Executive Officer or “CODM”) in making decisions on how to allocate resources and assess performance. The Company’s two operating segments are Lighting and Graphics, with one executive team under the organizational structure reporting directly to the CODM with responsibilities for managing each segment. Corporate and Eliminations, which captures the Company’s corporate administrative activities, is also reported in the segment information. 




The Company’s corporate administration activities are reported in the Corporate and Eliminations line item. These activities primarily include intercompany profit in inventory eliminations, expense related to certain corporate officers and support staff, the Company’s internal audit staff, expense related to the Company’s Board of Directors, equity compensation expense for various equity awards granted to corporate administration employees, certain consulting expenses, investor relations activities, and a portion of the Company’s legal, auditing and professional fee expenses. Corporate identifiable assets primarily consist of cash, invested cash (if any), refundable income taxes (if any), and deferred income taxes. 

There was no concentration of consolidated net sales in the three months ended September 30, 2019 or 2018. There was no concentration of accounts receivable at September 30, 2018 or June 30, 2019. 





The segment net sales reported above represent sales to external customers. Segment operating income, which is used in management’s evaluation of segment performance, represents net sales less all operating expenses. Identifiable assets are those assets used by each segment in its operations. 



The Company’s operations are located solely within the United States. As a result, the geographic distribution of the Company’s net sales and long-lived assets originate within the United States. 

NOTE 4 - EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE 



    (a)   Includes shares accounted for like treasury stock.    

    (b)   Calculated using the “Treasury Stock” method as if dilutive securities were exercised and the funds were used to purchase common shares at the average market price during the period.    

    (c)   Options to purchase 2,861,423 common shares and 3,146,466 common shares at September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, were not included in the computation of the three month period for diluted earnings per share, respectively, because the exercise price was greater than the average fair market value of the common shares.     


NOTE 5 - INVENTORIES 



NOTE 6 - ACCRUED EXPENSES 



NOTE 7 - GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS 

The carrying values of goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives are reviewed at least annually for possible impairment. The Company may first assess qualitative factors in order to determine if goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are impaired. If through the qualitative assessment it is determined that it is more likely than not that goodwill and indefinite-lived assets are not impaired, no further testing is required. If it is determined more likely than not that goodwill and indefinite-lived assets are impaired, or if the Company elects not to first assess qualitative factors, the Company’s impairment testing continues with the estimation of the fair value of the reporting unit using a combination of a market approach and an income (discounted cash flow) approach, at the reporting unit level. The estimation of the fair value of reporting unit requires significant management judgment with respect to revenue and expense growth rates, changes in working capital and the selection and use of an appropriate discount rate. The estimates of the fair value of reporting units are based on the best information available as of the date of the assessment. The fair value measurements of the reporting units are based on significant inputs not observable in the market and thus represent Level 3 measurements as defined by ASC 820 “Fair Value Measurements.” The use of different assumptions would increase or decrease estimated discounted future operating cash flows and could increase or decrease an impairment charge. Company management uses its judgment in assessing whether assets may have become impaired between annual impairment tests. Indicators such as adverse business conditions, economic factors and technological change or competitive activities may signal that an asset has become impaired. 

The Company identified its reporting units in conjunction with its annual goodwill impairment testing. The Company has a total of two reporting units that contain goodwill. There is one reporting unit within the Lighting Segment and one reporting unit within the Graphics Segment. The Company relies upon a number of factors, judgments and estimates when conducting its impairment testing including, but not limited to, the Company’s stock price, operating results, forecasts, anticipated future cash flows and marketplace data. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and judgments in applying them to the analysis of goodwill impairment. 











NOTE 8 - REVOLVING LINE OF CREDIT 

In February 2019, the Company amended its secured line of credit to a $75 million facility from a $100 million facility in order to better match its financing needs with an appropriate borrowing capacity. The line of credit expires in the third quarter of fiscal 2022. Interest on the revolving line of credit is charged based upon an increment over the LIBOR rate as periodically determined, or at the bank’s base lending rate, at the Company’s option. The increment over the LIBOR borrowing rate, as periodically determined, fluctuates between 125 and 250 basis points depending upon the ratio of indebtedness to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”), as defined in the line of credit agreement. The increment over LIBOR borrowing rate will be 200 basis points for the first quarter of fiscal 2020. The fee on the unused balance of the $75 million committed line of credit is 20 basis points. Under the terms of this line of credit, the Company has agreed to a negative pledge of real estate assets and is required to comply with financial covenants that limit the ratio of indebtedness to EBITDA and require a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio. As of September 30, 2019, there was $23.2 million borrowed against the line of credit, and $51.8 million was available as of that date. Based on the terms of the line of credit and the maturity date, the debt has been classified as long term. 

The Company is in compliance with all of its loan covenants as of September 30, 2019. 

NOTE 9 - CASH DIVIDENDS 

The Company paid cash dividends of $1,319,000 and $1,296,000 in the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Dividends on restricted stock units in the amount of $34,842 and $31,553 were accrued as of September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. These dividends will be paid upon the vesting of the restricted stock units when shares are issued to the award recipients. In November 2019, the Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.05 per share payable November 26, 2019 to shareholders of record as of November 18, 2019. The indicated annual cash dividend rate is $0.20 per share. 

NOTE 10 - EQUITY COMPENSATION 

In November 2019, the Company’s shareholders approved the 2019 Omnibus Award Plan. The purpose of the plan is to provide a means through which the Company may attract and retain key personnel and to provide a means by which directors, officers, and employees can acquire and maintain an equity interest in the Company. This plan replaced the 2012 Stock Incentive Plan. The number of shares of common stock authorized for issuance under the plan is 2,650,000 which will be combined with the remaining shares available under the previous plan of 1,147,429 shares as of September 30, 2019 for total number of shares available for issuance of approximately 3.8 million. The plan implements the use of a fungible share ratio that consumes 2.5 available shares for every full value share awarded by the Company as stock compensation. The 2019 Omnibus Award Plan allows for the grant of non-qualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock awards, performance stock units, and other stock-based awards. 

In the first quarter of fiscal 2020, the Company granted 455,429 non-qualified serviced-based stock options with an exercise price of $3.83 and 199,310 Performance Stock Units and 81,917 Restricted Stock Units at a fair value of $3.83. Stock compensation expense was $398,000 and $551,000 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively. 


NOTE 11 - SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION 


NOTE 12 - COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES 

The Company is party to various negotiations, customer bankruptcies, and legal proceedings arising in the normal course of business. The Company provides reserves for these matters when a loss is probable and reasonably estimable. The Company does not disclose a range of potential loss because the likelihood of such a loss is remote. In the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations, cash flows or liquidity. 

The Company may occasionally issue a standby letter of credit in favor of third parties. As of September 30, 2019, there were no such standby letters of credit issued. 

NOTE 13 – SEVERANCE COSTS 



Of the total $990,000 reported as of September 30, 2019, $591,000 has been classified as a current liability and will be paid out over the next twelve months. The remaining $399,000 has been classified as a long-term liability. 


NOTE 14 – RESTRUCTURING COSTS 

In the first quarter of fiscal 2020, the Company sold its New Windsor, New York facility. The net proceeds from the sale was $12.3 million resulting in a gain of $4.8 million. The Company also incurred additional restructuring costs totaling $233,000 related to closure of the New York facility which impacted both the Lighting and Graphics segment. 





NOTE 15 - LEASES 

The Company leases two of its manufacturing facilities along with a small office space, a company vehicle, several forklifts, several small tooling items, and various items of office equipment. All of the Company’s leases are operating leases and are included in other long-term assets with the corresponding liability in other long-term liabilities. Leases have a remaining term of 1 to 5 years some of which have an option to renew. The Company does not assume renewals in determining the lease term unless the renewals are deemed reasonably certain. The lease agreements do not contain any material residual guarantees or material variable lease payments. 

The Company has periodically entered into short-term operating leases with an initial term of twelve months or less. These leases are not recorded on the balance sheet. For the three months ended September 30, 2019, the rent expense for these leases is immaterial. 

The Company has certain leases that contain lease and non-lease components and has elected to utilize the practical expedient to account for these components together as a single lease component. 

Lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. The Company used its incremental borrowing rate when determining the present value of lease payments. The adoption of the new lease standard resulted in the recognition of right-of-use assets (ROU assets) of $10.4 million and lease liabilities of 10.8 million which includes the impact of existing deferred rents and tenant improvement allowances on the consolidated balance sheets as of July 1, 2019 for the Company’s real estate leases. The adoption of the new standard resulted in no material impact to the consolidated statements of operations or consolidated statements of cash flow. 


      Three Months Ended


      (in thousands)     

Operating lease cost       587      





NOTE 16 – INCOME TAXES 

The Company's effective income tax rate is based on expected income, statutory rates and tax planning opportunities available in the various jurisdictions in which it operates. For interim financial reporting, the Company estimates the annual income tax rate based on projected taxable income for the full year and records a quarterly income tax provision or benefit in accordance with the anticipated annual rate. The Company refines the estimates of the year's taxable income as new information becomes available, including actual year-to-date financial results. This continual estimation process often results in a change to the expected effective income tax rate for the year. When this occurs, the Company adjusts the income tax provision during the quarter in which the change in estimate occurs so that the year-to-date provision reflects the expected income tax rate. Significant judgment is required in determining the effective tax rate and in evaluating tax positions. In the first quarter of fiscal 2020, the Company sold its New Windsor, New York facility resulting in a book gain of $4.8 million. The Company was able to utilize a deferred tax asset of $864,000 related to the sale of the facility 



ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

Note About Forward-Looking Statements 

This report includes estimates, projections, statements relating to our business plans, objectives, and expected operating results that are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements may appear throughout this report, including this section. These forward-looking statements generally are identified by the words “believe,” “project,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “intend,” “strategy,” “future,” “opportunity,” “plan,” “may,” “should,” “will,” “would,” “will be,” “will continue,” “will likely result,” and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially. We describe risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and events to differ materially in in our Annual Report on Form 10-K in the following sections: “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk,” and “Risk Factors.” All of those risks and uncertainties are incorporated herein by reference. We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether because of new information, future events, or otherwise. 


The Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements, accompanying notes and the “Safe Harbor” Statement, each as appearing earlier in this report, should be referred to in conjunction with this Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 



Summary Comments 

Fiscal 2020 first quarter net sales of $88,701,000 increased $3.7 million or 4.4% as compared to first quarter fiscal 2019. Net sales were favorably influenced by increased net sales in both the Lighting Segment (up $1.8 million or 2.9%) and the Graphics Segment (up $2.0 million or 8.4%). 

Fiscal 2020 first quarter operating income of $6.9 million increased $4.0 million from operating income of $2.9 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. The $4.0 million increase in operating income in fiscal 2019 was impacted by the sale of the Company’s New Windsor, New York facility in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 which favorably resulted in a pre-tax gain of $4.8 million. Also contributing to the period-over-period change in operating income is a one-time adjustment to the Company’s paid-time-off policy in fiscal 2019 which resulted in a favorable pre-tax adjustment to earnings of $1.2 million with no comparable event in fiscal 2020. When the impact of the sale of the New Windsor facility along with the other restructuring and plant closure costs are removed from the operating results along with the one-time adjustment to the Company’s paid-time-off policy in fiscal 2019, operating income period-over-period remained relatively flat. Refer to the discussions in the “results of operations” for each of the Company’s reportable segments for further explanation of the period-over-period change in sales and operating income. 


Non-GAAP Financial Measures 

The Company believes it is appropriate to evaluate its performance after making adjustments to the as-reported U.S. GAAP operating income, net income, and earnings per share. Adjusted operating income, net income and earnings per share, which exclude the impact of restructuring and plant closure costs, are non-GAAP financial measures. We believe that these adjusted supplemental measures are useful in assessing the operating performance of our business. These supplemental measures are used by our management, including our chief operating decision maker, to evaluate business results. We exclude these items because they are not representative of the ongoing results of operations of our business. Below is a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to operating income, net income, and earnings per share for the periods indicated. 







Results of Operations 

THREE MONTHS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2018 COMPARED TO THREE MONTHS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2017 


Lighting Segment net sales of $63,191,000 in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 increased 2.9% from fiscal 2019 same period net sales of $61,432,000. Sales increased despite inconsistent market conditions as the Company continues to focus on growth in core market verticals including the Automotive, Petroleum, QSR and Retail parking lot markets.   


Selling and administrative expenses of $8,060,000 in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 decreased $3.6 million from the same period of fiscal 2019 selling and administrative expenses of $11,625,000, primarily due to the $4.8 million gain on the sale of the New Windsor, New York facility. When the $4.8 million gain is removed from fiscal 2020 results, there was a $1.3 million or 11.1% increase in selling and administrative expenses. The increase in selling and administrative expenses is mostly driven by higher commission expense which is the result of increased sales volume and a one-time adjustment to the Company’s paid-time-off policy in fiscal 2019 with no comparable event in fiscal 2020. 

The Lighting Segment first quarter fiscal 2019 operating income of $9,159,000 increased $5.3 million from operating income of $3,850,000 in the same period of fiscal 2019 primarily due to the $4.8million gain on the sale of its New Windsor, New York facility. When the impact of $4.8 million gain is removed from fiscal 2020 results along with the restructuring and plant closure costs in both fiscal years, fiscal 2020 Non-GAAP adjusted operating income of $4,510,000 was $70,000 higher than fiscal 2019 Non-GAAP adjusted operating income of $4,440,000. The increase in sales volume and gross profit was partially offset by higher selling and administrative expenses.  


Graphics Segment net sales of $25,510,000 in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 increased $2.0 million or 8.4% from fiscal 2019 same period net sales of $23,525,000. Growth was realized across three product market applications; petroleum, other retail printed graphics, and digital signage. 



Selling and administrative expenses of $3,609,000 in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 increased $0.2 million or 6.3% from the same period of fiscal 2019 primarily as a result of increased development cost for potential customer programs. 

The Graphics Segment first quarter fiscal 2020 operating income of $1,017,000 decreased $1.4 million or 57.4% from operating income of $2,387,000 in the same period of fiscal 2019. The decrease of $1.4 million was primarily the net result of increased net sales, decreased gross profit, decreased gross profit margin as a percentage of sales, and increased selling and administrative expenses. 


The gross profit or loss relates to the elimination of intercompany profit in inventory. 

Administrative expenses of $3,340,000 in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 increased slightly from the same period of the prior year. The change is primarily the result of several small increases and decreases across several cost categories 

Consolidated Results 

The Company reported $431,000 net interest expense in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to $518,000 net interest expense in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. The change from interest expense from fiscal 2019 to fiscal 2020 is primarily the result of reduced borrowings against the Company’s line of credit. The Company also incurred $82,000 expense related to net foreign currency transaction losses from transactions with its customer and suppliers through its Mexican subsidiary. 

The $1,851,000 income tax expense in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 represents a consolidated effective tax rate of 29.3% influenced mostly by the gain on the sale of its New Windsor, New York facility and by certain permanent book-tax differences and by an expense related to uncertain income tax positions. The $667,000 income tax expense in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 is also by certain permanent book-tax differences and by an expense related to uncertain income tax positions. 

The Company reported a net income of $4,475,000 in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to net income of $1,749,000 in the same period of the prior year. The change in net income between fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2020 includes the $4.8 million gain on the sale of the Company’s New Windsor, New York facility along with other restructuring and plant closure costs. The change in net income is also the net result of increased net sales, increased gross profit, increased selling and administrative expenses, decreased interest expense, and a higher tax rate. Diluted earnings per share of $0.17 was reported in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 as compared to $0.07 diluted earnings per share in the same period of fiscal 2018. The weighted average common shares outstanding for purposes of computing diluted earnings per share in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 were 26,293,000 shares as compared to 26,365,000 shares in the same period last year. 

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

The Company considers its level of cash on hand, borrowing capacity, current ratio and working capital levels to be its most important measures of short-term liquidity. For long-term liquidity indicators, the Company believes its ratio of long-term debt to equity and its historical levels of net cash flows from operating activities to be the most important measures. 



The Company generated $6.4 million of cash from operating activities in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 as compared to a source of cash of $2.2 million in the same period of the prior year. This $4.2 million increase in net cash flows from operating activities is the result the Company’s strategy to aggressively manage its working capital which includes the reduction of the accounts receivable days sales outstanding (DSO), increasing inventory turns while simultaneously reducing inventory levels, and effectively managing the Company’s supply chain which includes partnering with its suppliers to find the appropriate service level while effectively managing payment terms. 

Net accounts receivable was $58.4 million and $54.7 million at September 30, 2019 and June 30, 2019, respectively. DSO decreased to 57 days at September 30, 2019 from 63 days at June 30, 2019. The Company believes that its receivables are ultimately collectible or recoverable, net of certain reserves, and that aggregate allowances for doubtful accounts are adequate. 

Net inventories of $43.1 million at September 30, 2019 decreased $0.4 million from $43.5 million at June 30, 2019. The decrease of $0.4 million is the result of a decrease in gross inventory of $0.3 million and an increase in obsolescence reserves of $0.1 million. Based on a strategy of balancing inventory reductions with customer service and the timing of shipments, net inventory decreased 0.8 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 in the Graphics Segment which more than offset an increase in net inventory in the Lighting Segment of $0.4 million. 

Cash generated from operations and borrowing capacity under the Company’s line of credit is the Company’s primary source of liquidity. The Company has a secured $75 million revolving line of credit with its bank, with $53.0 million of the credit line available as of October 21, 2019. This line of credit is a $75 million five-year credit line expiring in the third quarter of fiscal 2022. The Company believes that its $75 million line of credit plus cash flows from operating activities are adequate for the Company’s fiscal 2020 operational and capital expenditure needs. The Company is in compliance with all of its loan covenants. 

The Company had a source of cash of $12.0 million related to investing activities in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 as compared to a use of cash of $0.6 million in the same period of the prior year, resulting in a favorable change of $12.6 million. Capital expenditures for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 decreased $0.3 million to $0.4 million from the same period in fiscal 2019. The Company sold its New Windsor, New York manufacturing facility for $12.3 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 which contributed to the change in cash flow from investing activities from fiscal 2019 to fiscal 2020. 

The Company used $17.7 million of cash related to financing activities in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to a use of cash of $0.5 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. The $17.2 million unfavorable change in cash flow was the net result of payments in excess of borrowings of long-term debt of $17.2 million. 


Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 

The Company has no financial instruments with off-balance sheet risk and has no off-balance sheet arrangements, except for various operating leases. However, none of these operating leases, individually or in the aggregate have or are reasonably likely to have a current effect on the Company’s financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources that is material. 

Cash Dividends 

In November 2019, the Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.05 per share payable November 26, 2019 to shareholders of record as of November 18, 2019. The indicated annual cash dividend rate for fiscal 2020 is $0.20 per share. The Board of Directors has adopted a policy regarding dividends which indicates that dividends will be determined by the Board of Directors in its discretion based upon its evaluation of earnings, cash flow requirements, financial condition, debt levels, stock repurchases, future business developments and opportunities, and other factors deemed relevant. 

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

A summary of the Company’s significant accounting policies is included in Note 1 to the audited consolidated financial statements of the Company’s fiscal 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 


ITEM 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 

There have been no material changes in the Company’s exposure to market risk since June 30, 2019. Additional information can be found in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, which appears on page 13 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019. 

ITEM 4. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 

Disclosure Controls and Procedures 

The Company maintains disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”)), that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within required time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed is accumulated and communicated to management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. 

We conducted, under the supervision of our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Based upon our evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of September 30, 2019, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective. Management believes that the condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are fairly presented in all material respects in accordance with GAAP for interim financial statements, and the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have certified that, based on their knowledge, the condensed consolidated financial statements included in this report fairly present in all material respects the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows for each of the periods presented in this report. 

Changes in Internal Control 

During the quarter ended September 30, 2019, the Company enacted additional controls related to the adoption of ASU 2016-02, “Leases.” There have been no changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) during the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2019, that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, except as otherwise described in this Item 4. 


PART II. OTHER INFORMATION 

ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS 

NONE 

PART II. 

Item 5. Other Information 


Item 5.02 -- Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers. 


The objectives of the 2019 Plan are to provide long-term incentives to those persons with significant responsibility for the success and growth of the Company, to align the interests of such persons with those of the Company’s shareholders, to assist the Company in recruiting, retaining and motivating employees, directors and consultants on a competitive basis and to link compensation to performance. Under the 2019 Plan, employees of the Company will be eligible to receive awards. The 2019 Plan provides for a variety of equity award vehicles to maintain flexibility. The 2019 Plan will permit the grant of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted share awards, and restricted share units. A maximum of 2,650,000 shares will be available for grants of all equity awards under the 2019 Plan. 

The foregoing summary of the 2019 Plan does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the 2019 Plan attached as Annex A to the Company’s Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 25, 2019. 

Item 5.07 – Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders. 











ITEM 6. EXHIBITS  





  31.1   Certification of Principal Executive Officer required by Rule 13a-14(a)    

  31.2   Certification of Principal Financial Officer required by Rule 13a-14(a)    

  32.1   Section 1350 Certification of Principal Executive Officer    

  32.2   Section 1350 Certification of Principal Financial Officer    

101.INS XBRL Instance Document 

101.SCH XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 

101.CAL XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 

101.DEF XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document 

101.LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document 

101.PRE XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document 


++ Certain portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to Item 601(b)(10) of Regulation S-K. The omitted information is not material and would likely cause competitive harm to the Registrant if publicly disclosed. The Registrant hereby agrees to furnish a copy of any omitted portion to the SEC upon request. 


SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 


