Document   

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION






xQUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the quarterly period ended March 31, 2018 

or

oTRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from to 

Commission File No. 000-49604 


ManTech International Corporation







Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. x Yes o No

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Website, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). x Yes o No

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company. See definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company,” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.


If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). o Yes x No

As of May 2, 2018 there were 26,352,452 shares outstanding of our Class A common stock and 13,189,245 shares outstanding of our Class B common stock.

MANTECH INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION


FOR THE QUARTER ENDED March 31, 2018 

INDEX



PART I – FINANCIAL INFORMATION

Item 1.Financial Statements

MANTECH INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.


MANTECH INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME



See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.


MANTECH INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME



See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.


MANTECH INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.


NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


UNAUDITED

1.Description of the Business



The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Certain information and note disclosures normally included in the annual financial statements, prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., have been condensed or omitted pursuant to those rules and regulations. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses. We recommend that you read these condensed consolidated financial statements in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, previously filed with the SEC. We believe that the condensed consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-Q reflect all adjustments that are necessary to fairly present the financial position, results of operations and cash flows for the interim periods presented. The results of operations for such interim periods are not necessarily indicative of the results that can be expected for the full year.

3.Revenue from Contracts with Customers

Significant Accounting Policies

Revenue Recognition - On January 1, 2018, we adopted Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers using the modified retrospective method applied to those contracts that were not substantially complete as of January 1, 2018. ASC 606 outlines a five-step model whereby revenue is recognized as performance obligations within the contract are satisfied. ASC 606 also requires new, expanded disclosures regarding revenue recognition. We recognized the cumulative effect of adopting ASC 606 as an increase to the 2018 opening balance of retained earnings in the amount of $0.8 million, with the impact primarily related to fixed-price contracts. Results for reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2018 are presented under ASC 606, while prior period amounts were not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with ASC 605, Revenue Recognition. The impact to revenue for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 was immaterial as a result of applying ASC 606.

We account for a contract when both we and the customer approve and commit; our rights and those of the customer are identified, payment terms are identified; the contract has commercial substance; and collectability of consideration is probable. At contract inception, we identify the distinct goods or services promised in the contract, referred to as performance obligations. Then we determine the transaction price for the contract; the consideration to which we can expect in exchange for the promised goods or services in the contract. The transaction price can be a fixed or variable amount. It is common for our contracts to contain award fees, incentive fees or other provisions that can either increase or decrease the transaction price. These variable amounts generally are awarded upon achievement of certain performance metrics, program milestones or cost targets and can be based upon customer discretion. We estimate variable consideration at the most likely amount to which we expect to be entitled. We include estimated amounts in the transaction price to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is resolved. Our estimates of variable consideration and determination of whether to include estimated amounts in the transaction price are based largely on an assessment of our anticipated performance and historical, current and forecasted information that is reasonably available to us. The transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation using our best estimate of the standalone selling price for each distinct good or service promised in the contract. The primary method used to estimate standalone selling price is the expected cost plus a margin approach, under which we forecast our expected costs of satisfying a performance obligation and then add an appropriate margin for that distinct good or service promised. Revenue is recognized when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied.

We recognize revenue over time when there is a continuous transfer of control to our customer. For our U.S. government contracts, this continuous transfer of control to the customer is supported by clauses in the contract that allow the U.S. government to unilaterally terminate the contract for convenience, pay us for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit and take control of any work in process. When control is transferred over time, revenue is recognized based on the extent of progress towards completion 


of the performance obligation. Based on the nature of the products and services provided in the contract, we use our judgment to determine if an input measure or output measure best depicts the transfer of control over time. For services contracts, we typically satisfy our performance obligations as services are rendered and use a contract cost-based input method to measure progress. Contract costs include labor, material and allocable indirect expenses. Revenue is recognized proportionally as contract costs are incurred plus estimated fees. For time-and-material contracts, we bill the customer per labor hour and per material, and revenue is recognized in the amount invoiced since the amount corresponds directly to the value of our performance to date. For stand-ready service contracts, a time-elapsed output method is used to measure progress, and revenue is recognized straight-line over the term of the contract. If a contract does not meet the criteria for recognizing revenue over time, we recognize revenue at a point in time. Revenue is recognized at the point in time when control of the good or service is transferred to our customer. We consider control to transfer when we have a present right to payment and our customer has legal title. Determining a measure of progress and when control transfers requires us to make judgments that affect the timing of when revenue is recognized. Essentially all of our contracts satisfy their performance obligations over time.

Contracts are often modified to account for changes in contract specifications and requirements. Contract modifications impact performance obligation when the modification either creates new or changes the existing enforceable rights and obligations. The effect of a contract modification on the transaction price and our measure of progress for the performance obligation to which it relates is recognized as an adjustment to revenue under the cumulative catch-up method. Furthermore, a significant change in one or more estimates could affect the profitability of our contracts. We recognize adjustments in estimated profit on contracts in the period identified. If at any time the estimate of contract profitability indicates an anticipated loss on the contract, we recognize the loss in the quarter it is identified. The impact of adjustments in contract estimates can be reflected in either revenue or operating expenses on the condensed consolidated statement of income. 

We have an Estimate at Completion process in which management reviews the progress and execution of our performance obligations. As part of this process, management reviews information including, but not limited to, any outstanding key contract matters, progress towards completion and the related program schedule, identified risks and opportunities and the related changes in estimates of revenue and costs. The risks and opportunities include management’s judgment about the ability and cost to achieve the contract milestones and other technical contract requirements. Management must make assumptions and estimates regarding labor productivity and availability, the complexity of the work to be performed, the availability of materials, the length of time to complete the performance obligation, execution by our subcontractors, the availability and timing of funding from our customer and overhead cost rates, among other variables. A significant change in one or more of these estimates could affect the profitability of our contracts. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, the aggregate impact of adjustments in contract estimates increased our revenue by $2.6 million. No adjustment on any one contract was material to our condensed consolidated financial statements for the three months ended March 31, 2018.

Results for prior periods were reported in accordance with ASC 605. Revenue for cost-reimbursable contracts were recorded as reimbursable costs were incurred, including an estimated share of the applicable contractual fees earned. For performance-based fees under cost-reimbursable contracts, we recognized the relevant portion of the expected fee to be awarded by the customer at the time such fee can be reasonably estimated, based on factors such as our prior award experience and communications with the customer regarding performance, or upon approval by the customer. For time-and-materials contracts, revenue was recognized to the extent of billable rates times hours delivered plus materials and other reimbursable costs incurred. For long-term fixed-price contracts, revenue was recognized at a rate per unit as the units were delivered or by other methods to measure services provided. Revenue from other long-term fixed-price contracts were recognized ratably over the contract period or by other appropriate methods to measure services provided. Contract costs were expensed as incurred except for certain limited long-term contracts noted below. For long-term contracts, specifically described in the scope section of ASC 605-35, Revenue Recognition - Construction-Type and Production-Type Contracts, we applied the percentage of completion method. Under the percentage of completion method, income was recognized at a consistent profit margin over the period of performance based on estimated profit margins at completion of the contract. This method of accounting required estimating the total revenue and total contract cost at completion of the contract. These estimates were periodically reviewed and revisions were made as required using the cumulative catch-up method. The impact on revenue and contract profit as a result of these revisions were included in the periods in which the revisions were made. Estimated losses on contracts at completion were recognized when identified. In certain circumstances, revenue was recognized when contract amendments were not finalized. 

Contract assets - Amounts are invoiced as work progresses in accordance with agreed-upon contractual terms, either at periodic intervals or upon achievement of contractual milestones. Generally, revenue recognition occurs before billing, resulting in contract assets. These contract assets are referred to as unbilled receivables and are reported within receivables, net on our condensed consolidated balance sheet.


Billed receivables - Amounts billed and due from our customers are classified as billed receivables and are reported within receivables, net on the condensed consolidated balance sheet. The portion of the payments retained by the customer until final contract settlement is not considered a significant financing component because the intent is to protect the customer.

Contract liabilities - We receive advances and milestone payments from our customers on selected contracts that exceed revenue earned to date, resulting in contract liabilities. Contract liabilities typically are not considered a significant financing component because it is used to meet working capital demands that can be higher in the early stages of a contract and to protect us from the customer failing to adequately complete some or all of its obligations under the contract. Contract liabilities are reported on our condensed consolidated balance sheet on a net contract basis at the end of each reporting period.

Contract costs - Contract costs include direct labor, direct materials, overhead and, when applicable, general and administrative expenses. Incremental costs of obtaining a contract that we expect to recover are recognized as deferred contract costs and are amortized on a systematic basis that is consistent with the transfer to the customer of the goods or services. Other incremental costs are expensed when incurred. Costs of fulfilling a contract that relate directly to a contract or to an anticipated contract that can be specifically identified, generate or enhance resources that will be used in satisfying future performance obligations and are expected to be recovered are recognized as deferred contract costs and amortized on a systematic basis that is consistent with the transfer of the goods or services to the customer. Other costs of fulfilling a contract (general and administrative expenses, costs of wasted materials, labor or other resources to fulfill the contracts that were not reflected in the price of the contract and costs that relate to satisfied performance obligations in the contract) are expensed when incurred.

Deferred contract costs - Costs of obtaining or fulfilling a contract that meet the criteria in ASC 340, Other Assets and Deferred Costs, are capitalized and amortized on a systematic basis that is consistent with the transfer of goods or services to the customer. Deferred contracts costs are reported on our condensed consolidated balance sheet within current or non-current other assets based on the expected life of the related contract. At March 31, 2018, we had $3.1 million of deferred contract costs. For the period ending March 31, 2018 we recorded amortization expense of $0.1 million.

Revenue from Contracts with Customers


We have one reportable segment. Our U.S. government customers typically exercise independent decision-making and contracting authority. Offices or divisions within an agency or department of the U.S. government may directly, or through a prime contractor, use our services as a separate customer as long as the customer has independent decision-making and contracting authority within its organization. We treat sales to U.S. government customers as sales within the U.S. regardless of where the services are performed. The following tables discloses revenue (in thousands) by contract type, customer, prime or subcontractor and geography for the periods presented. Prior period amounts have not been adjusted under the modified retrospective method. 








Receivables at March 31, 2018 are expected to be substantially collected within one year except for approximately $1.5 million, of which 97% is related to receivables from sales to the U.S. government or from contracts in which we acted as a subcontractor to other contractors selling to the U.S. government. We do not believe that we have significant exposure to credit risk as billed receivable and unbilled receivables are primarily due from the U.S. government. The allowance for doubtful accounts represents our estimate for exposure to compliance, contractual issues and bad debts related to prime contractors. 



Changes in the balances of contract assets and contract liabilities are primarily due to the timing difference between our performance and our customers' payments. Other changes in these balances could include business combinations, impairment of contract assets and cumulative catch-up adjustments arising from changes in the measure of progress, changes in estimates of the transaction price or contract modifications. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, the amount of revenue that was included in the opening contract liabilities balance was $2.3 million.


The remaining performance obligation as of March 31, 2018 is $2.3 billion. The following table discloses when we expect to recognize the remaining performance obligation as revenue (in billions).




The preliminary purchase price of $184.0 million, which includes an estimated working capital adjustment, was preliminarily allocated to the underlying assets and liabilities based on their estimated fair value at the date of acquisition. As we are still in the process of reviewing the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed and in finalizing the closing working capital adjustment, the purchase price allocation for InfoZen is not complete as of March 31, 2018. The goodwill recorded related to this transaction will be deductible for tax purposes over 15 years. Recognition of goodwill is largely attributed to the value paid for InfoZen's capabilities to support customers in modernization, agile software development, cloud migration and threat monitoring and assessment capabilities. 

In preliminarily allocating the purchase price, we considered, among other factors, analysis of historical financial performance and estimates of future performance of InfoZen's contracts. The components of other intangible assets associated with the acquisition were customer relationships and backlog valued at $49.2 million and $5.7 million, respectively. Customer contracts and related relationships represent the underlying relationships and agreements with InfoZen's existing customers. Customer relationships are amortized using the pattern of benefits method over their estimated useful lives of approximately 20 years. Backlog is amortized straight-line over its estimated useful life of 1 year. The weighted-average amortization period for the intangible assets is 18 years.




Under ASC 260, Earnings per Share, the two-class method is an earnings allocation formula that determines earnings per share for each class of common stock according to dividends declared (or accumulated) and participation rights in undistributed earnings. Under that method, basic and diluted earnings per share data are presented for each class of common stock.

In applying the two-class method, we determined that undistributed earnings should be allocated equally on a per share basis between Class A and Class B common stock. Under our Certificate of Incorporation, the holders of the common stock are entitled 


to participate ratably, on a share-for-share basis as if all shares of common stock were of a single class, in such dividends as may be declared by the Board of Directors. During the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, we declared and paid quarterly dividends in the amount of $0.25 per share and $0.21 per share, respectively, on both classes of common stock.

Basic earnings per share has been computed by dividing net income available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during each period. Shares issued during the period and shares reacquired during the period are weighted for the portion of the period in which the shares were outstanding. Diluted earnings per share have been computed in a manner consistent with that of basic earnings per share while giving effect to all potentially dilutive common shares that were outstanding during each period.



For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, options to purchase 310,745 shares and 158,074 shares, respectively, were outstanding but not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the options' effect would have been anti-dilutive. For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, there were 203,854 shares and 53,724 shares, respectively, issued from the exercise of stock options. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, there were 86,233 shares issued from the vesting of restricted stock units. 





Depreciation and amortization expense related to property and equipment for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 was $5.9 million and $1.9 million, respectively. 

7.Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets









Revolving Credit Facility—We maintain a credit facility with a syndicate of lenders led by Bank of America, N.A, as sole administrative agent. The credit agreement provides for a $500 million revolving credit facility, with a $75 million letter of credit sublimit and a $30 million swing line loan sublimit. The credit agreement also includes an accordion feature that permits us to arrange with the lenders for the provision of additional commitments. The maturity date is August 17, 2022. 


The terms of the credit agreement permit prepayment and termination of the loan commitments at any time, subject to certain conditions. The credit agreement requires us to comply with specified financial covenants, including the maintenance of certain leverage ratios and a certain consolidated coverage ratio. The credit agreement also contains various covenants, including affirmative covenants with respect to certain reporting requirements and maintaining certain business activities, and negative covenants that, among other things, may limit or impose restrictions on our ability to incur liens, incur additional indebtedness, make investments, make acquisitions and undertake certain other actions. As of and during the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, we were in compliance with the financial covenants under the credit agreement.

There was $65.5 million and $31.0 million outstanding on our revolving credit facility at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. The maximum available borrowing under the revolving credit facility at March 31, 2018 was $419.2 million. As of March 31, 2018, we were contingently liable under letters of credit totaling $15.3 million, which reduces our availability to borrow under our revolving credit facility. 


Contracts with the U.S. government, including subcontracts, are subject to extensive legal and regulatory requirements and, from time-to-time, agencies of the U.S. government, in the ordinary course of business, investigate whether our operations are conducted in accordance with these requirements and the terms of the relevant contracts. U.S. government investigations of us, whether related to our U.S. government contracts or conducted for other reasons, could result in administrative, civil, or criminal liabilities, including repayments, fines or penalties being imposed upon us, or could lead to suspension or debarment from future U.S. government contracting activities. Management believes it has adequately reserved for any losses that may be experienced from any investigation of which it is aware. The Defense Contract Audit Agency has substantially completed our incurred cost audits through 2012 with no material adjustments. The remaining audits for 2013 through 2016 are not expected to have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flow and management believes it has adequately reserved for any losses.

In the normal course of business, we are involved in certain governmental and legal proceedings, claims and disputes and have litigation pending under several suits. We believe that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows, except for the matter noted below.

We are a defendant in a lawsuit filed by two former employees alleging retaliation under both the False Claims Act (FCA) and the Defense Contractor Whistleblower Protection Act (DCWPA). The trial court has awarded damages for front pay, back pay and attorneys' fees and costs. Both parties filed appeals to the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals. On March 20, 2018, oral arguments were held for our appeal and plaintiff's cross-appeal, which are pending adjudication. Through the appeals process, our liability could be reduced or, if the plaintiffs are successful, increased by $0.8 million. As of March 31, 2018, we accrued a liability of $2.3 million and recorded a receivable for $2.8 million. We have an insurance policy that covers the amount of the liability, therefore, no loss was recognized as of the three months ended March 31, 2018. The impact of future events in connection with this matter are not expected to have a material effect on our financial position, results of operation or cash flow.

We have $15.3 million outstanding on our letter of credit, of which $15.2 million is related to an outstanding performance bond in connection with a contract between ManTech MENA, LLC and Jadwalean International Operations and Management Company to fulfill technical support requirements for the Royal Saudi Air Force.



Our 2016 Management Incentive Plan (the Plan) was designed to attract, retain and motivate key employees. The types of awards available under the Plan include, among others, stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units (RSUs). Equity awards granted under the Plan are settled in shares of Class A common stock. At the beginning of each year, the Plan provides that the number of shares available for issuance automatically increases by an amount equal to 1.5% of the total number of shares of Class A and Class B common stock outstanding on December 31st of the previous year. On January 2, 2018, there were 588,464 additional shares made available for issuance under the Plan. Through March 31, 2018, the Board of Directors has authorized the issuance of up to 14,551,899 shares under this Plan. Through March 31, 2018, the remaining aggregate number of shares of our common stock available for future grants under the Plan was 6,260,256. The Plan expires in March 2026.

The Plan is administered by the compensation committee of our Board of Directors, along with its delegates. Subject to the express provisions of the Plan, the committee has the Board of Directors’ authority to administer and interpret the Plan, including the discretion to determine the exercise price, vesting schedule, contractual life and the number of shares to be issued.

Stock Compensation Expense—For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, we recorded $1.1 million and $1.0 million of stock-based compensation expense, respectively. No compensation expense of employees with stock awards, including stock-based compensation expense, was capitalized during the periods. For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, we recorded $(1.1) million and $0.1 million, respectively, to income tax expense (benefit) related to the exercise of stock options, vested cancellations and the vesting of restricted stock.

Stock Options—Under the Plan, we have issued stock options. A stock option gives the holder the right, but not the obligation to purchase a certain number of shares at a predetermined price for a specific period of time. We typically issue options that vest over three years in equal installments beginning on the first anniversary of the date of grant. Under the terms of the Plan, the contractual life of the option grants may not exceed eight years. During the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, we issued options that expire five years from the date of grant.

Fair Value Determination—We have used the Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing model to determine the fair value of our awards on the date of grant. We will reconsider the use of the Black-Scholes-Merton model if additional information becomes available in the future that indicates another model would be more appropriate or if grants issued in future periods have characteristics that cannot be reasonably estimated under this model.


•Volatility—The expected volatility of the options granted was estimated based upon historical volatility of our share price through weekly observations of our trading history.


•Risk-free interest rate—The yield on zero-coupon U.S. Treasury strips was used to extrapolate a forward-yield curve. This “term structure” of future interest rates was then input into a numeric model to provide the equivalent risk-free rate to be used in the Black-Scholes-Merton model based on the expected term of the underlying grants.

•Dividend Yield—The Black-Scholes-Merton valuation model requires an expected dividend yield as an input. We have calculated our expected dividend yield based on an expected annual cash dividend of $1.00 per share.




Stock Option Activity—The weighted-average fair value of options granted during the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, as determined under the Black-Scholes-Merton valuation model, was $9.96 and $5.63, respectively. Option grants that vested during the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 had a combined fair value of $0.7 million and $0.8 million, respectively.





Unrecognized compensation expense related to non-vested awards was $5.4 million as of March 31, 2018, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 3 years.

Restricted Stock—Under the Plan, we have issued restricted stock. A restricted stock award is an issuance of shares that cannot be sold or transferred by the recipient until the vesting period lapses. Restricted stock issued to members of our Board of Directors vest on the one year anniversary of the grant date. The related compensation expense is recognized over the service 


period and is based on the grant date fair value of the stock. The grant date fair value of the restricted stock is equal to the closing market price of our common stock on the date of grant.

Restricted Stock Activity— There was no restricted stock activity during the three months ended March 31, 2018. The following table summarizes the restricted stock activity during the year ended December 31, 2017. 


RSUs—Under the Plan, we have issued RSUs. RSUs are not actual shares, but rather a right to receive shares in the future. The shares are not issued and the employee cannot sell or transfer shares prior to vesting and have no voting rights until the RSUs vest. Employees who are granted RSUs do not receive dividend payments during the vesting period. Our employees have been granted performance-based RSUs and time-based RSUs. Performance-based RSUs result in the delivery of shares only if (a) performance criteria is met and (b) the employee remains employed, in good standing, through the date of the performance period of two years. In 2018, our employees were granted time-based RSUs, instead of performance-based RSUs. These time-based RSUs vest in one-third increments on the first, second and third anniversaries of the date of grant. The grant date fair value of the RSUs is equal to the closing market price of our common stock on the grant date less the present value of dividends expected to be awarded during the service period. We recognize the grant date fair value of RSUs of shares we expect to issue as compensation expense ratably over the requisite service period.




The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA) was enacted on December 22, 2017. TCJA reduces the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, effective January 1, 2018. At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, we have not completed our accounting for the tax effects of enactment of TCJA. We made a reasonable estimate of the effects on our existing deferred tax balances and effective tax rate for the matters that are continuing to be evaluated, as noted below. We will continue to make and refine our calculations as additional analysis is completed. In addition, our estimates may also be affected by additional clarifications and interpretations of the legislation. As disclosed in our 2017 Form 10-K, we have not yet completed our accounting for the income tax effects of the deductibility of officers compensation, the acquisition accounting for InfoZen, and assets that qualify for immediate deduction. 


Item 2.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements

All statements and assumptions contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q that do not relate to historical facts constitute "forward-looking statements." These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Forward-looking statements often include the use of words such as "may," "will," "expect," "intend," "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "plan" and words and terms of similar substance in connection with discussions of future events, situations or financial performance. While these statements represent our current expectations, no assurance can be given that the results or events described in such statements will be achieved.

Forward-looking statements may include, among other things, statements with respect to our financial condition, results of operations, prospects, business strategies, competitive position, growth opportunities, and plans and objectives of management. Such statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside of our control, and include, without limitations, the risks and uncertainties discussed in the section titled "Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017.


•Failure to maintain our relationship with the U.S. government, or the failure to compete effectively for new contract awards or to retain existing U.S. government contracts;

•Inability to recruit and retain a sufficient number of employees with specialized skill sets or necessary security clearances who are in great demand and limited supply;

•Issues relating to competing effectively for awards procured through the competitive bidding process, including the adverse impact of delays caused by competitors' protests of contract awards received by us;

•Adverse changes in U.S. government spending for programs we support, whether due to changing mission priorities, socio-economic policies that reduce contracts that we may bid on, cost reduction and efficiency initiatives by our customers, or federal budget constraints generally;

•Failure to obtain option awards, task orders or funding under contracts;

•Failure to realize the full amount of our backlog, or adverse changes in the timing of receipt of revenue under contracts included in backlog;

•Renegotiation, modification or termination of our contracts, or failure to perform in conformity with contract terms or our expectations;

•Disruption of our business or damage to our reputation resulting from security breaches in customer systems, internal systems or service failures (including as a result of cyber or other security threats), or employee or subcontractor misconduct;

•Failure to successfully integrate acquired companies or businesses into our operations or to realize any accretive or synergistic effects from such acquisitions;

•Increased exposure to risks associated with conducting business internationally;

•Non-compliance with, or adverse changes in, complex U.S. government laws, procurement regulations or processes; and

•Adverse results of U.S. government audits or other investigations of our government contracts.

We urge you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement made herein following the date of this Quarterly Report, whether as a result of new information, subsequent events or circumstances, changes in expectations or otherwise.


Overview


On March 23, 2018, the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2018 was signed into law. The Act funds the government through September 30, 2018 and marks the third consecutive year of budget growth. The U.S. GFY 2018 appropriations and U.S. GFY 2019 budget request include near term expansions of budgets for the Department of Defense aligned with the Administration's stated priorities in dealing with significant global threats, readiness and force structure needs within the military, diplomatic, homeland and border security, and cyber aggressions by both state and non-state actors. However, U.S. GFY 2019 and future years funding appropriations continue to be debated in normal course by Congress with the consideration of policy priorities, national budget deficits, debt ceilings and the Budget Control Act (BCA).

We recommend that you read this discussion and analysis in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, previously filed with the SEC.

Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 Compared to the Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 

The following table sets forth certain items from our condensed consolidated statements of income and the relative percentage that certain items of expenses and earnings bear to revenue, as well as the period-to-period change from March 31, 2017 to March 31, 2018.


Revenue

The primary driver of our increase in revenue relates to revenue from new contract awards, acquisitions and growth on certain existing contracts. These increases were offset by contracts and tasks that ended and reduced scope of work on some contracts. 

Cost of services 

The increase in cost of services was primarily due to increases in revenue. As a percentage of revenue, direct labor costs were 48% for the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to 49% for the same period in 2017. As a percentage of revenue, other direct costs, which include subcontractors as well as equipment and materials used in the performance of our contracts, was 37% for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017. 


General and administrative expenses 

The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to an increase in bid and proposal spending, amortization of acquired intangibles and expenditures to support infrastructure. 

Interest expense

The increase in interest expense was due to increased borrowings under our credit facility to fund the acquisition of InfoZen in the fourth quarter of 2017 and the purchase of equipment to support a managed IT services contract. For additional information on the acquisition of InfoZen, see Note 4. Acquisitions to our condensed consolidated financial statements in Item I.

Provision for income taxes 

Our effective tax rate is affected by recurring items, such as the relative amount of income we earn in various taxing jurisdictions and their tax rates. It is also affected by discrete items that may occur in any given year, but are not consistent from year-to-year. Our effective income tax rates were 22% and 38% for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The significant reduction in our effective tax rate for 2018 is due to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, enacted on December 22, 2017, which reduced the U.S. corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%. Our effective income tax rate was further reduced by the tax benefits for stock option exercises in the quarter. We expect our effective income tax rate to be between 25%-26% for the balance of the year.

Backlog


We define funded backlog to be the portion of backlog for which funding currently is appropriated and allocated to the contract by the purchasing agency or otherwise authorized for payment by the customer upon completion of a specific portion of work. Our funded backlog does not include the full value of our contracts because Congress often appropriates funds for a particular program or contract on a yearly or quarterly basis, even though the contract may call for performance over a much longer period of time.

A variety of circumstances or events may cause changes in the amount of our backlog and funded backlog, including the execution of new contracts, the extension of existing contracts, the non-renewal or completion of current contracts, the early termination of contracts, and adjustment to estimates for previously included contracts. Changes in the amount of our funded backlog also are affected by the funding cycles of the government.

At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, our backlog was $7.1 billion. Our funded backlog was $1.2 billion and $1.4 billion as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017. 



Liquidity and Capital Resources

Our primary liquidity needs relate to managing working capital, financing acquisitions, making cash dividend payments, purchasing property and equipment and investing in capital software. Our primary sources of liquidity are cash from operating activities and borrowings under our revolving credit facility. On March 31, 2018, our cash and cash equivalents balance was $10.4 million. There were $65.5 million outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility at March 31, 2018. The maximum available borrowings under our revolving credit facility at March 31, 2018 were $419.2 million. As of March 31, 2018, we were contingently liable under letters of credit totaling $15.3 million, which reduces our availability to borrow under our revolving credit facility. 


Cash Flows from (Used in) Operating Activities

Our operating cash flow is primarily affected by our ability to invoice and collect from our customers in a timely manner, our management of vendor payments and the overall profitability of our contracts. We bill most of our customers monthly after services are rendered. Our accounts receivable days sales outstanding were 69 and 68 for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, our net cash used in operating activities were $18.0 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2017, our net cash flow from operating activities were $36.5 million. The decrease in net cash flows from (used in) operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2018 when compared to the same period in 2017 was primarily due to the timing of receivables.

Cash Flows Used in Investing Activities

For the three months ended March 31, 2018 our net cash used in investing activities was $9.0 million, which was primarily due to the purchase of equipment to support a managed IT service contract, infrastructure investments and capitalized software for internal use. For the three months ended March 31, 2017 our net cash used in investing activities was $3.4 million, which related to capital expenditures. We expect increased levels of capital expenditures, as compared to prior years, for the purchase of equipment to support managed IT service contracts.

Cash Flows from (Used in) Financing Activities

For the three months ended March 31, 2018, our net cash flow from financing activities were $27.9 million, which were primarily due to net borrowings under on revolving credit facility and exercise of stock options partially offset by dividend payments. For the three months ended March 31, 2017, our net cash used in financing activities were $6.4 million, which were primarily due to dividends paid partially offset by the proceeds from the exercise of stock options. 

Revolving Credit Facility


Capital Resources

We believe the capital resources available to us from cash on hand, our remaining capacity under our revolving credit facility, and cash from our operations are adequate to fund our anticipated cash requirements for at least the next year. We anticipate financing our internal and external growth through cash from operating activities, borrowings under our revolving credit facility or other debt and issuance of equity.

Cash Management

To the extent possible, we invest our available cash in short-term, investment grade securities in accordance with our investment policy. Under our investment policy, we manage our investments in accordance with the priorities of maintaining the safety of our principal, maintaining the liquidity of our investments, maximizing the yield on our investments and investing our cash to the fullest extent possible. Our investment policy provides that no investment security can have a final maturity that exceeds six months and that the weighted average maturity of the portfolio cannot exceed 60 days. Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, amounts due from banks and short-term investments with maturity dates of three months or less at the date of purchase.


Dividend

During the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, we declared and paid quarterly dividends in the amount of $0.25 per share and $0.21 per share, respectively, on both classes of our common stock. While we expect to continue the cash dividend program, any future dividends declared will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend, among other factors, upon our results of operations, financial condition and cash requirements, as well as such other factors that our Board of Directors deems relevant.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

In the ordinary course of business, we use letters of credit issued to satisfy certain contractual terms with our customers. As of March 31, 2018, $15.3 million in letters of credit were issued but undrawn. We have an outstanding performance bond in connection with a contract between ManTech MENA, LLC and Jadwalean International Operations and Management Company to fulfill technical support requirements for the Royal Saudi Air Force. This performance bond is guaranteed by a letter of credit in the amount of $15.2 million. We have off-balance sheet arrangements related to operating leases. For a description of our operating leases, see our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, previously filed with the SEC.

Critical Accounting Estimates and Policies

Critical accounting policies are defined as those that are reflective of significant judgments and uncertainties, and potentially result in materially different results under different assumptions and conditions. Application of these policies is particularly important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations. The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Our significant accounting policies for 2017 are described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, previously filed with the SEC. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting estimates and policies from those discussed in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K, other than revenue recognition and cost estimation as part of our implementation of ASC 606, which is described below.

Revenue Recognition and Cost Estimation

We account for a contract when both we and the customer approve and commit; our rights and those of the customer are identified, payment terms are identified; the contract has commercial substance; and collectability of consideration is probable. At contract inception, we identify the distinct goods or services promised in the contract, referred to as performance obligations. Then we determine the transaction price for the contract; the consideration to which we can can expect in exchange for the promised goods or services in the contract. The transaction price can be a fixed or variable amount. It is common for our contracts to contain award fees, incentive fees or other provisions that can either increase or decrease the transaction price. These variable amounts generally are awarded upon achievement of certain performance metrics, program milestones or cost targets and can be based upon customer discretion. We estimate variable consideration at the most likely amount to which we expect to be entitled. We include estimated amounts in the transaction price to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is resolved. Our estimates of variable consideration and determination of whether to include estimated amounts in the transaction price are based largely on an assessment of our anticipated performance and historical, current and forecasted information that is reasonably available to us. The transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation using our best estimate of the standalone selling price for each distinct good or service promised in the contract. The primary method used to estimate standalone selling price is the expected cost plus a margin approach, under which we forecast our expected costs of satisfying a performance obligation and then add an appropriate margin for that distinct good or service promised. Revenue is recognized when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied.

We recognize revenue over time when there is a continuous transfer of control to our customer. For our U.S. government contracts, this continuous transfer of control to the customer is supported by clauses in the contract that allow the U.S. government to unilaterally terminate the contract for convenience, pay us for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit and take control of any work in process. When control is transferred over time, revenue is recognized based on the extent of progress towards completion of the performance obligation. Based on the nature of the products and services provided in the contract, we use our judgment to determine if an input measure or output measure best depicts the transfer of control over time. For services contracts, we typically satisfy our performance obligations as services are rendered and use a contract cost-based input method to measure progress. Contract costs include labor, material and allocable indirect expenses. Revenue is recognized proportionally as contract costs are 


incurred plus estimated fees. For time-and-material contracts, we bill the customer per labor hour and per material, and revenue is recognized in the amount invoiced since the amount corresponds directly to the value of our performance to date. For stand-ready service contracts, a time-elapsed output method is used to measure progress, and revenue is recognized straight-line over the term of the contract. If a contract does not meet the criteria for recognizing revenue over time, we recognize revenue at a point in time. Revenue is recognized at the point in time when control of the good or service is transferred to our customer. We consider control to transfer when we have a present right to payment and our customer has legal title. Determining a measure of progress and when control transfers requires us to make judgments that affect the timing of when revenue is recognized. Essentially all of our contracts satisfy their performance obligations over time.

Contracts are often modified to account for changes in contract specifications and requirements. Contract modifications impact performance obligation when the modification either creates new or changes the existing enforceable rights and obligations. The effect of a contract modification on the transaction price and our measure of progress for the performance obligation to which it relates is recognized as an adjustment to revenue under the cumulative catch-up method. Furthermore, a significant change in one or more estimates could affect the profitability of our contracts. We recognize adjustments in estimated profit on contracts in the period identified. If at any time the estimate of contract profitability indicates an anticipated loss on the contract, we recognize the loss in the quarter it is identified. The impact of adjustments in contract estimates can be reflected in either revenue or operating expenses on the condensed consolidated statement of income.

Recently Adopted Accounting Standards Updates


ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606) supersedes existing revenue recognition guidance, including ASC 605-35, Revenue Recognition - Construction-Type and Production-Type Contracts. ASU 2014-09 outlines a single set of comprehensive principles for recognizing revenue under GAAP. Among other things, it requires companies to identify contractual performance obligations and determine whether revenue should be recognized at a point in time or over time. It also requires new, expanded disclosures regarding revenue recognition. We elected to adopt using the modified retrospective method that applied to those contracts that were not substantially completed as of January 1, 2018. We recognized the cumulative effect of adopting ASC 606 as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the amount of $0.8 million, with the impact primarily related to fixed-price contracts. Results for reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2018 are presented under ASC 606, while prior period amounts were not adjusted and reported in accordance with ASC 605, Revenue Recognition. The impact to revenue for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 was immaterial as a result of applying ASC 606.





Recently Issued But Not Yet Adopted ASUs





amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value, with the understanding that the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. Public entities should adopt the amendments in this ASU prospectively for their annual, or any interim periods, in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019. Early adoption is permitted for all entities for interim or annual goodwill impairment tests performed on testing dates after January 1, 2017. We will evaluate adopting when we perform our goodwill impairment test in 2018. We do not expect the adoption of this ASU to have a material effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements.

Other ASUs effective after March 31, 2018 are not expected to have a material effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements.

Item 3.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

Our exposure to market risk relates to changes in interest rates for borrowing under our revolving credit facility. At March 31, 2018, we had $65.5 million outstanding balance on our revolving credit facility. Borrowings under our revolving credit facility bear interest at variable rates. A hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates would have a $0.2 million effect on our interest expense for the three months ended March 31, 2018.

We do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. When we have excess cash, we invest in short-term, investment grade, interest-bearing securities. Our investments are made in accordance with an investment policy. Under this policy, no investment securities can have maturities exceeding six months and the weighted average maturity of the portfolio cannot exceed 60 days.

Item 4.Controls and Procedures

Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. Disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed in our reports filed or submitted under the Exchange Act, such as this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, is accurately recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms. Disclosure controls and procedures are also designed to provide reasonable assurance that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive officer and our principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.

It should be noted that a control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. As a result, our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that such disclosure controls and procedures will meet their objectives.

As of March 31, 2018, under the supervision and with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer (our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, respectively), management evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Rule 13a-15 of the Exchange Act. Based upon this evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level described above.

There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during our last fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.


PART II – OTHER INFORMATION

Item 1.Legal Proceedings


Although we cannot predict the outcome of these and other legal proceedings, investigations, claims and disputes, based on the information now available to us, we do not believe the ultimate resolution of these matters, either individually or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition or operating results.

Item 1A.Risk Factors

There have been no material changes from the risk factors described in the “Risk Factors” section of our Annual Report on the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.

Item 6.Exhibits




SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.



