
United States 

Securities and Exchange Commission 





For the quarterly period ended June 30, 2019 

or 




MESA LABORATORIES, INC. 





Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. 



Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company or an emerging growth company. See definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 



Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). 



There were 3,921,589 shares of the Issuer’s common stock, no par value, outstanding as of July 24, 2019. 

EXPLANATORY NOTE 


The purpose of this Amendment is to amend and restate Part I, Item 4 – Disclosure Controls and Procedures to (i) include the information required by Item 307 of Regulation S-K, which was inadvertently omitted in the Original Filing; (ii) revise the disclosure to correctly reflect management’s conclusion that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of June 30, 2019; (iii) remove the references to an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting; and (iv) update Part II, Item 6 - Exhibits to reflect the exhibits filed with this Amendment.  

Other than as set forth herein, this Amendment does not modify or update the Original Filing in any way, and the parts or exhibits of the Original Filing which have not been modified or updated are not included in this Amendment. This Amendment continues to speak as of the date of the Original Filing and the Company has not updated the disclosure contained herein to reflect events that have occurred since the filing of the Original Filing. Accordingly, this Amendment should be read in conjunction with the Company’s other filings made with the Securities and Exchange Commission since the filing of the Original Filing, including amendments to those filings, if any. 

Item 4. Controls and Procedures 

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures 

We maintain disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”) that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in Exchange Act reports is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. 

As of June 30, 2019, we carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures. Based on the foregoing, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this report. 

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  


Part II. Other Information 

Item 6. Exhibits 




Signatures 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 

MESA LABORATORIES, INC. 


