Document   

 UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION






xQUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the period ended September 29, 2018 

or

¨TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from to 



MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS, INC.







Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes x No ¨

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes x No ¨



If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ¨

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes ¨ No x


Class Number of Shares

Common Stock; $.01 Par Value 163,527,868


Part I—Financial Information

Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations



See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).


Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income




See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).


Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets


See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).


Condensed Consolidated Statement of Stockholders’ Equity



See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).


Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows



See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).


Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements




The condensed consolidated financial statements as of September 29, 2018 and for the three and nine months ended September 29, 2018 and September 30, 2017 include, in the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring adjustments and reclassifications) necessary to present fairly the condensed consolidated balance sheets, statements of operations, statements of comprehensive income, statement of stockholders' equity, and statements of cash flows of Motorola Solutions, Inc. (“Motorola Solutions” or the “Company”) for all periods presented.

Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted. These condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company’s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017. The results of operations for the three and nine months ended September 29, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the operating results to be expected for the full year. 

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. Actual results could differ from those estimates.


Recent Developments

On March 28, 2018, the Company completed the acquisition of Avigilon Corporation ("Avigilon"), a provider of advanced end-to-end security and surveillance solutions including video analytics, network video management hardware and software, surveillance cameras and access control solutions for a purchase price of $974 million. 

On March 7, 2018, the Company completed the acquisition of Plant Holdings, Inc. ("Plant"), the parent company of Airbus DS Communications for a purchase price of $237 million. This acquisition expands our software portfolio in the command center with additional solutions for Next Generation 9-1-1. 

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2016-02, "Leases," which amends existing guidance to require lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by long-term leases and to disclose additional quantitative and qualitative information about leasing arrangements. The ASU is effective for the Company on January 1, 2019 and interim periods within that reporting period, with early adoption permitted. In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-11 that amended the ASU to include an additional (and optional) transition relief. The additional transition relief provides entities the option to adopt the ASU by applying the new ASU at the adoption date and recognizing a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the period of adoption without restatement of comparative periods. The new ASU must be adopted utilizing the modified retrospective method as of the earliest comparative period presented if the optional adoption method is not selected. The Company will adopt the ASU on January 1, 2019, utilizing the modified retrospective method as of the adoption date. The Company is continuing to assess the impact of the ASU on its condensed consolidated financial statements, including the package of available practical expedients, required disclosures, and changes to internal controls. Based on the preliminary work completed, the Company expects a material impact to its condensed consolidated balance sheet through the recording of right-of-use assets and lease obligations that are not required to be recorded within the condensed consolidated balance sheet under current accounting standards.




with adoption permitted immediately in any interim or annual period (including the current period). The guidance related to cash flow and net investment hedges existing at the date of adoption should be applied using the modified retrospective method by means of a cumulative-effect adjustment to the balance sheet as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. The guidance related to presentation and disclosure should be applied prospectively. The Company is currently assessing the impact of this ASU, including transition elections and required elections, on its consolidated financial statements and disclosures.

In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-14, “Compensation - Retirement Benefits - Defined Benefit Plans - General (Subtopic 715-20) - Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Defined Benefit Plans,” which modifies the disclosure requirements for the defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement plans. The ASU is effective for the Company on January 1, 2020 with early adoption permitted. The ASU requires a retrospective adoption method. The Company does not believe the ASU will have a material impact on its financial statement disclosures.

Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements


The Company adopted ASU No. 2017-07, “Compensation - Retirement Benefits (Topic 715) - Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost” on January 1, 2018 using the retrospective method of adoption. The amendments in the ASU require that an employer disaggregate the service cost component from the other components of net periodic cost (benefit) and report that component in the same line item as other compensation costs arising from services rendered by employees during the period. The other components of net periodic cost (benefit) are required to be presented in the statement of operations separately from the service cost component and outside of operating earnings. The Company has restated its comparative period results to reflect the application of the presentation guidance of the ASU. As a result of the ASU, the presentation of net periodic cost (benefit) has been updated to classify all components of the Company’s net periodic benefit, with the exception of the service cost component, within Other in Other income (expense) on the statement of operations. The Company reclassified $18 million and $10 million in the three months ended September 29, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively, and $58 million and $10 million in the nine months ended September 29, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively.

The Company adopted ASU No. 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers," and all the related amendments (collectively “ASC 606”) on January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method. The Company recognized the cumulative effect of initially applying the new revenue standard as an adjustment to its opening retained earnings. The comparative information has not been restated and continues to be reported under the accounting standards in effect in those periods. 

The Company has retained much of the same accounting treatment used to recognize revenue under ASC 606 as under accounting standards in effect in prior periods. Revenue on a significant portion of its System and Integration services contracts continues to be recognized under percentage of completion accounting, applying a cost-to-cost method. Services contracts continue to be recognized ratably over relevant contract terms as the Company stands ready to perform. Finally, revenue on equipment sales continues to be recognized based on delivery terms as aligned with the transfer of control.

Under the new standard, the Company identified distinct promises to transfer goods and services within its contracts. For system contracts that are recognized under percentage of completion accounting, the Company has considered the factors used to determine whether promises made in the contract are distinct and determined that devices and accessories represent distinct goods. Accordingly, adoption of the new standard impacts the Company's system contracts, with the result being revenue recognized earlier as control of devices and accessories transfers to the customer at a point in time rather than over time. For the remaining promised goods and services within the Company's system contracts, it continues to recognize revenue on these contracts using a cost-to-cost method based on the continuous transfer of control to the customer over time. 

Under the new standard, revenue recognition for software sales is accelerated based on when control of software licenses and related support services are transferred to the customer. Amounts deferred under previous software accounting rules due to lack of vendor-specific objective evidence have been recognized as an adjustment through opening retained earnings.

 Historically, the Company presented transactions that involved a third-party sales representative on a net basis. After considering the control concept and the remaining three indicators of gross presentation under the new standard, the Company has determined that it is the principal in contracts that involve a third-party sales representative. Thus, under the new standard, the Company presents associated revenues on a gross basis, with the affect being an equal increase to selling, general and administrative expenses for its cost of third-party commissions.

Under prior accounting standards, the Company expensed sales commissions and other costs to obtain a contract as incurred. However, under the new standard, the Company capitalizes sales commissions and certain other costs as incremental costs to obtain a contract. Such costs are classified as non-current contract cost assets within Other assets and amortized over a period that approximates the timing of revenue recognition on the underlying contracts.


The new standard clarified the definition of a receivable and requires the Company to present its net position in a contract with a customer on the balance sheet. The position is presented as either a receivable, contract asset, or a contract liability. Under the new definition, accounts receivable are unconditional rights to consideration from a customer. Contract assets represent rights to consideration from a customer in exchange for transferred goods and services that are conditional on events other than the passage of time. Contract liabilities represent obligations to transfer goods and services for which the Company has received, or is due, consideration from a customer. The Company reclassified its customer positions to align with the new definitions and presentation guidance. Accordingly, Unbilled accounts receivable and Costs and earnings in excess of billings have been reclassified from Accounts receivable and Other current assets, respectively, and are presented as Contract assets. Accounts receivable which are not due from customers have been reclassified into Other current assets. Deferred revenue, Billings in excess of costs and earnings, and Customer downpayments have been reclassified from Accrued liabilities and are presented as Contract liabilities. Non-current deferred revenue has been reclassified from Deferred revenue to Non-current contract liabilities within Other liabilities.


Balance Sheet (Selected captions)


Adoption Impact to Financial Statements


Statements of Operations (Selected captions)




Balance Sheet (Selected captions)


There is no impact to the condensed consolidated statement of comprehensive income or the statement of cash flows, with the exception of changes to Net earnings and changes within assets and liabilities as presented on the condensed consolidated balance sheet and disclosed above. 


2. Revenue from Contracts with Customers








Disaggregation of Revenue











 On-premise offerings consist of multiple promises primarily including software licenses and post-contract customer support. The promises are each distinct and distinct within the context of the contract as the customer benefits from each promise individually without any significant integration or interrelationship between the promises. On-premise software revenue is recognized at the point in time when the customer can benefit from the software which generally aligns with the beginning of the license period. Revenue for post-contract customer support is recognized over time as the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the services on a straight-line basis.

Significant Judgments 


The Company accounts for certain system contracts on an over time basis, electing an input method of estimated costs as a measure of performance completed. The selection of the measurement of progress using estimated costs was based on a thorough consideration of alternatives of various output and input measures, including contract milestones and labor hours. However, the Company has determined that other input and output measures are not an appropriate measure of progress as they do not accurately align with the transfer of control on its customized product solutions. The selection of costs incurred as a measure of progress aligns the transfer of control to the overall production of the customized system.

For system contracts accounted for over time using estimated costs as a measure of performance completed, the Company relies on estimates around the total estimated costs to complete the contract (“Estimated Costs at Completion”). Total Estimated Costs at Completion include direct labor, material and subcontracting costs. Due to the nature of the efforts required to be performed to meet the underlying performance obligation, determining Estimated Costs at Completion may be complex and subject to many variables. We have a standard and disciplined quarterly process in which management reviews the progress and performance of open contracts in order to determine the best estimate of Estimated Costs at Completion. As part of this process, management reviews information including, but not limited to, any outstanding key contract matters, progress towards completion, the project schedule, identified risks and opportunities, and the related changes in estimates of costs. The 


risks and opportunities include management’s judgment about the ability and cost to achieve the project schedule, technical requirements, and other contract requirements. Management must make assumptions and estimates regarding labor productivity and availability, the complexity of work to be performed, the availability and cost of materials, and performance by subcontractors, among other variables. Based on this analysis, any quarterly adjustment to net sales, cost of sales, and the related impact to operating income are recorded as necessary in the period they become known. When estimates of total costs to be incurred on a contract exceed estimates of total revenue to be earned, a provision for the entire loss on the contract is recorded in the period in which the loss is determined.

Remaining Performance Obligations 

Remaining performance obligations represent the revenue that is expected to be recognized in future periods related to performance obligations that are unsatisfied, or partially unsatisfied, as of the end of a period. The transaction price associated with remaining performance obligations which are not yet satisfied as of September 29, 2018 is $6.1 billion. A total of $3.3 billion is from Products and Systems Integration performance obligations that are not yet satisfied, of which $1.9 billion is expected to be recognized in the next 12 months. The remaining amounts will generally be satisfied over time as systems are implemented. A total of $2.8 billion is from Services and Software performance obligations that are not yet satisfied as of September 29, 2018. The determination of Services and Software performance obligations that are not satisfied takes into account a contract term that may be limited by the customer’s ability to terminate for convenience. Where termination for convenience exists in the Company's Services contracts, its disclosure of the remaining performance obligations that are unsatisfied assumes the contract term is limited until renewal. The Company expects to recognize $1.2 billion from unsatisfied Services and Software performance obligations over the next 12 months, with the remaining performance obligations to be recognized over time as services are performed and software is implemented. 

Contract Balances


Contract assets consist of amounts formerly classified as Costs and earnings in excess of billings and Unbilled accounts receivable where the Company does not yet have an unconditional right to bill. Contract liabilities consist of amounts formerly classified Billings in excess of costs and earnings recognized, Customer downpayments and Deferred revenue.

Payment terms on system contracts are typically tied to implementation milestones associated with progress on contracts, while revenue recognition is over time based on a cost-to-cost method of measuring performance. The Company may recognize a contract asset or contract liability, depending on whether revenue has been recognized in excess of billings or billings in excess of revenue. Services contracts are typically billed in advance, generating Contract liabilities until the Company has performed the services. The Company does not record a financing component to contracts when it expects, at contract inception, that the period between the transfer of a promised good or service and related payment terms are less than a year.

Revenue recognized during the three months ended September 29, 2018 which was previously included in Contract liabilities as of July 1, 2018 is $327 million. Revenue recognized during the nine months ended September 29, 2018 which was previously included in Contract liabilities as of January 1, 2018 is $777 million. Revenue of $7 million was reversed during the three months ended September 29, 2018 and $4 million of revenue was reversed during the nine months ended September 29, 2018 related to performance obligations satisfied, or partially satisfied, in previous periods, primarily driven by changes in the estimates of progress on system contracts. 

There have been no material impairment losses recognized on contract assets during the nine months ended September 29, 2018.

Contract Cost Balances


Contract cost assets represent incremental costs to obtain a contract, primarily related to the Company's sales incentive plans, and certain costs to fulfill contracts. Contract cost assets are amortized into expense over a period that follows the 


passage of control to the customer over time. Incremental costs to obtain a contract with the Company's sales incentive plans are accounted for under a portfolio approach, with amortization ranging from one to four years to approximate the recognition of revenues over time. Where incremental costs to obtain a contract will be recognized in one year or less, the Company applies a practical expedient around expensing amounts as incurred. Amortization of contract cost assets was $11 million and $34 million for the three and nine months ended September 29, 2018, respectively. 

3. Other Financial Data

Statements of Operations Information

Other Charges (Income)




During the nine months ending September 29, 2018, the Company recognized $17 million of acquisition-related transaction fees for the Avigilon and Plant acquisitions.

During the nine months ended September 30, 2017, the Company recognized $8 million of building impairments related to the anticipated sale of its Basingstoke, U.K. building. 

During the nine months ended September 30, 2017, the Company recognized a net gain of $42 million related to the recovery, through legal procedures to seize and liquidate assets, of financial receivables owed to the Company by a former customer of its legacy Networks business.


Other Income (Expense)



During the three and nine months ended September 29, 2018, the Company recognized a foreign currency loss of $14 million, primarily driven by the Brazilian real, the Euro, the Australian dollar and the Argentinian peso. During the three and nine months ended September 29, 2018, the Company recognized a gain of $8 million and a loss of $15 million, respectively, on derivative instruments put in place to minimize the foreign exchange risk related to currency fluctuations. The loss on derivative instruments during the nine months ended September 29, 2018, includes a loss of $14 million on foreign currency derivatives put in place to minimize the exposure to the Canadian dollar related to the purchase of Avigilon.

During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, the Company recognized foreign currency losses of $7 million and $29 million, respectively, primarily driven by British Pound, partially offset by gains of $3 million and $14 million, respectively, on derivative instruments put in place to minimize the foreign exchange risk related to currency fluctuations.

Earnings Per Common Share




In the computation of diluted earnings per common share for the three months ended September 29, 2018, the assumed exercise of 0.2 million options were excluded because their inclusion would have been antidilutive. For the nine months ended September 29, 2018, the assumed exercise of 3.2 million options, including 0.8 million subject to market-based contingent option agreements, were excluded because their inclusion would have been antidilutive.

 For the three months ended September 30, 2017, the assumed exercise of 2.0 million options, including 1.7 million subject to market-based contingent option agreements, were excluded because their inclusion would have been antidilutive. For the nine months ended September 30, 2017, the assumed exercise of 2.3 million options, including 1.9 million subject to market-based contingent option agreements, were excluded because their inclusion would have been antidilutive.

On August 25, 2015, the Company issued $1.0 billion of 2% Senior Convertible Notes which mature in September 2020 (the "Senior Convertible Notes"). The notes became fully convertible as of August 25, 2017. On September 5, 2018, the Company agreed with Silver Lake Partners to re-purchase $200 million principal of the convertible notes for aggregate consideration of $369 million in cash, inclusive of the conversion premium. During the third quarter of 2018, the Company paid $169 million, with the remaining $200 million paid on October 15, 2018. In the event of an additional conversion, the Company intends to settle the principal amount of the Senior Convertible Notes in cash. Since the Company’s intention is to settle the par value of the Senior Convertible Notes in cash upon conversion, only the number of shares that would be issuable (under the treasury stock method of accounting for share dilution) are included in our computation of diluted earnings per share. The conversion price is adjusted for dividends declared through the date of settlement. Diluted earnings per share has been calculated based upon the amount by which the average stock price exceeds the conversion price.

Balance Sheet Information

Accounts Receivable, Net



During the nine months ended September 29, 2018, $297 million of Unbilled accounts receivable were reclassified to Contract assets and $24 million of non-customer miscellaneous receivables were reclassified to Other current assets as a result of the adoption of ASC 606.

Inventories, Net



During the nine months ended September 29, 2018, the increase in Inventories, net was primarily driven by the acquisition of Avigilon. 

Other Current Assets




Property, Plant and Equipment, Net



Depreciation expense for the three months ended September 29, 2018 and September 30, 2017 was $43 million and $49 million, respectively. Depreciation expense for the nine months ended September 29, 2018 and September 30, 2017 was $127 million and $142 million, respectively. 

Investments



Strategic investments include investments in non-public technology-driven startup companies. Strategic investments do not have a readily determinable fair value and are recorded at cost, less any impairment, and adjusted for changes resulting from observable, orderly transactions for identical or similar securities. The Company did not recognize any significant adjustments to the recorded cost basis during the nine months ended September 29, 2018.

The Company’s common stock portfolio reflects an investment in the communications services sector and is valued utilizing active market prices for similar instruments. During the three and nine months ended September 29, 2018, the Company recognized $7 million in Other income (expense) related to an increase in the fair value of the investments.

Company-owned life insurance policies were recorded at their cash surrender value. During the nine months ended September 29, 2018, the Company withdrew $60 million of excess cash from its company-sponsored life insurance investments. 

During the three months ended September 29, 2018, Gains on the sale of investments and businesses were $6 million. During the nine months ended September 29, 2018, Gains on the sale of investments and businesses were $16 million, compared to $3 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2017. 

Other Assets 




Accrued Liabilities



Deferred consideration in conjunction with the acquisition of Airwave will be paid on November 15, 2018.

Other Liabilities



The Company made a $500 million contribution to our U.S. Pension Plans during the nine months ended September 29, 2018.

During the nine months ended September 29, 2018, the deferred income taxes increase was primarily driven by the intangible assets related to acquisition of Avigilon.

Stockholders’ Equity


During the nine months ended September 29, 2018, the Company paid an aggregate of $66 million, including transaction costs, to repurchase approximately 0.6 million shares at an average price of $101.54 per share. As of September 29, 2018, the Company had used approximately $12.4 billion of the share repurchase authority, including transaction costs, to repurchase shares, leaving $1.6 billion of authority available for future repurchases.



Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss




4. Debt and Credit Facilities

As of September 29, 2018, the Company had a $2.2 billion syndicated, unsecured revolving credit facility scheduled to mature in April 2022 (the "2017 Motorola Solutions Credit Agreement"). As of March 31, 2018, the Company borrowed $400 million under the facility to complete the Avigilon acquisition. As of September 29, 2018, the outstanding loan amount under the facility was $100 million, with $200 million paid during the third quarter. Subsequent to the quarter, the Company paid the remaining $100 million. The 2017 Motorola Solutions Credit Agreement includes a $500 million letter of credit sub-limit with $450 million of fronting commitments. Borrowings under the facility bear interest at the prime rate plus the applicable margin, or at a spread above the London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR"), at the Company's option. The weighted average borrowing rate on outstanding amounts for the three and nine months ended September 29, 2018 was 3.58%. An annual facility fee is payable on the undrawn amount of the credit line. The interest rate and facility fee are subject to adjustment if the Company's credit rating changes. The Company must comply with certain customary covenants including a maximum leverage ratio, as defined in the 2017 Motorola Solutions Credit Agreement. The Company was in compliance with its financial covenants as of September 29, 2018. 

Also in conjunction with the Avigilon acquisition in the first quarter of 2018, the Company entered into a term loan for $400 million with a maturity date of March 26, 2021 (the “Term Loan”). Interest on the Term Loan is variable, indexed to LIBOR, and paid monthly. The weighted average borrowing rates for amounts outstanding during the three and nine months ended September 29, 2018 were 3.33% and 3.43%, respectively. No additional borrowings are permitted and amounts borrowed and repaid or prepaid may not be re-borrowed.

In February of 2018, the Company issued $500 million of 4.60% Senior notes due 2028. The Company recognized net proceeds of $497 million after debt issuance costs and debt discounts. These proceeds were then used to make a $500 million contribution to the Company's U.S. pension plan.

On August 25, 2015, the Company entered into an agreement with Silver Lake Partners to issue $1.0 billion of 2.00% Senior Convertible Notes which mature in September 2020. The notes became fully convertible as of August 25, 2017. The notes are convertible based on a conversion rate of 14.8252, as may be adjusted for dividends declared, per $1,000 principal amount (which is currently equal to a conversion price of $67.45 per share). The exercise price adjusts automatically for dividends. On September 5, 2018, the Company agreed with Silver Lake Partners to repurchase $200 million in principal amount of the Senior Convertible Notes for aggregate consideration of $369 million in cash, inclusive of the conversion premium. As of September 29, 2018, the Company paid $169 million of cash to Silver Lake Partners and recorded a gain of $6 million from the extinguishment of the convertible debt. The principal amount of $200 million was reclassified to short term debt. The value by which the Senior Convertible Notes exceeded their principal amount if converted as of September 29, 2018 was $712 million. In the event of an additional conversion, the Company intends to settle the principal amount of the Senior Convertible Notes in cash.

On September 28, 2018, the Company issued an additional $200 million on the outstanding 4.60% Senior notes due 2028 bringing the outstanding total to $700 million. The Company settled the issuance on October 5, 2018 and recognized net proceeds of $196 million, subsequent to quarter end, which was then used to pay the $200 million principal due to Silver Lake Partners on October 15, 2018.


Foreign Currency Risk

As of September 29, 2018, the Company had outstanding foreign exchange contracts with notional amounts totaling $782 million, compared to $507 million outstanding at December 31, 2017. The Company does not believe these financial instruments should subject it to undue risk due to foreign exchange movements because gains and losses on these contracts should generally offset gains and losses on the underlying assets, liabilities and transactions.




Counterparty Risk

The use of derivative financial instruments exposes the Company to counterparty credit risk in the event of non-performance by counterparties. However, the Company’s risk is limited to the fair value of the instruments when the derivative is in an asset position. The Company actively monitors its exposure to credit risk. As of September 29, 2018, all of the counterparties have investment grade credit ratings. As of September 29, 2018, the Company had $6 million of exposure to aggregate net credit risk with all counterparties.










At the end of each interim reporting period, the Company makes an estimate of its annual effective income tax rate. Tax expense in interim periods is calculated at the estimated annual effective tax rate plus or minus the tax effects of items of income and expense that are discrete to the period. The estimate used in providing for income taxes on a year-to-date basis may change in subsequent interim periods.








7. Retirement and Other Employee Benefits

Pension and Postretirement Health Care Benefits Plans 




The Company made a $500 million contribution to its U.S. Pension Benefit Plans during the nine months ended September 29, 2018.


8. Share-Based Compensation Plans



During the nine months ended September 29, 2018, the Company granted 0.4 million restricted stock units ("RSUs") and 0.1 million market stock units ("MSUs") with an aggregate grant-date fair value of $45 million and $7 million, respectively, and 0.2 million stock options and 0.2 million performance options ("POs") with an aggregate grant-date fair value of $6 million and $7 million, respectively. Share-based compensation expense will generally be recognized over the vesting period of three years.

9. Fair Value Measurements

The Company holds or has held certain fixed income securities, equity securities and derivatives, which are recognized and disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis. Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants as of the measurement date. Fair value is measured using the fair value hierarchy and related valuation methodologies as defined in the authoritative literature. This guidance specifies a hierarchy of valuation techniques based on whether the inputs to each measurement are observable or unobservable. Observable inputs reflect market data obtained from independent sources, while unobservable inputs reflect the Company's assumptions about current market conditions. 


Level 1—Quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets.

Level 2—Quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active and model-derived valuations, in which all significant inputs are observable in active markets.

Level 3—Valuations derived from valuation techniques, in which one or more significant inputs are unobservable. 





The Company had no Level 3 holdings as of September 29, 2018 or December 31, 2017.

At September 29, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the Company had $284 million and $633 million, respectively, of investments in money market prime and government funds (Level 1) classified as Cash and cash equivalents in its condensed consolidated balance sheets. The money market funds had quoted market prices that are equivalent to par.

Using quoted market prices and market interest rates, the Company determined that the fair value of long-term debt at September 29, 2018 and December 31, 2017 was $5.5 billion and $4.6 billion (Level 2), respectively. 

All other financial instruments are carried at cost, which is not materially different from the instruments’ fair values.

10. Long-term Financing and Sales of Receivables

Long-term Financing



The current portion of long-term receivables is included in Accounts receivable, net and the non-current portion of long-term receivables is included in Other assets in the Company’s condensed consolidated balance sheets. The Company had outstanding commitments to provide long-term financing to third parties totaling $86 million at September 29, 2018, compared to $93 million at December 31, 2017. 

Sales of Receivables



At September 29, 2018, the Company had retained servicing obligations for $879 million of long-term receivables, compared to $873 million at December 31, 2017. Servicing obligations are limited to collection activities related to the sales of accounts receivables and long-term receivables. 


Credit Quality of Long-term Receivables and Allowance for Credit Losses




11. Commitments and Contingencies

Legal Matters

The Company is a defendant in various lawsuits, claims, and actions, which arise in the normal course of business. In the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's condensed consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations. However, an unfavorable resolution could have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations in the periods in which the matters are ultimately resolved, or in the periods in which more information is obtained that changes management's opinion of the ultimate disposition.

Other Indemnifications

The Company is a party to a variety of agreements pursuant to which it is obligated to indemnify the other party with respect to certain matters. In indemnification cases, payment by the Company is conditioned on the other party making a claim pursuant to the procedures specified in the particular contract, which procedures typically allow the Company to challenge the other party's claims. In some instances, the Company may have recourse against third parties for certain payments made by the Company.

Some of these obligations arise as a result of divestitures of the Company's assets or businesses and require the Company to indemnify the other party against losses arising from breaches of representations and warranties and covenants and, in some cases, the settlement of pending obligations. The Company's obligations under divestiture agreements for indemnification based on breaches of representations and warranties are generally limited in terms of duration and to amounts not in excess of a percentage of the contract value. The Company had no accruals for any such obligations at September 29, 2018.

In addition, the Company may provide indemnifications for losses that result from the breach of general warranties contained in certain commercial and intellectual property agreements. Historically, the Company has not made significant payments under these agreements.










13. Reorganization of Business


During the three months ended September 29, 2018, the Company recorded net reorganization of business charges of $25 million including $21 million of charges in Other charges and $4 million of charges in Cost of sales in the Company's condensed consolidated statements of operations. Included in the $25 million were charges of $13 million related to employee separation costs and $12 million related to exit costs.

During the nine months ended September 29, 2018, the Company recorded net reorganization of business charges of $62 million including $46 million of charges in Other charges and $16 million of charges in Cost of sales in the Company's condensed consolidated statements of operations. Included in the $62 million were charges of $61 million related to employee separation costs and $16 million related to exit costs, partially offset by $15 million of reversals for accruals no longer needed.






Exit Costs

At January 1, 2018, the Company had $9 million of accruals for exit costs. During the nine months ended September 29, 2018, there were $16 million of additional charges and $3 million of cash payments related to the exit of leased facilities. The remaining accrual of $22 million, which the current portion is included in Accrued liabilities and the non-current portion is included in Other liabilities in the Company’s condensed consolidated balance sheet at September 29, 2018, primarily represents future cash payments for lease obligations that are expected to be paid over a number of years.

Employee Separation Costs

At January 1, 2018, the Company had an accrual of $41 million for employee separation costs. The 2018 additional charges of $61 million represent severance costs for approximately 700 employees. The adjustment of $15 million reflects reversals for accruals no longer needed. The $48 million used reflects cash payments to severed employees. The remaining accrual of $39 million, which is included in Accrued liabilities in the Company’s condensed consolidated balance sheets at September 29, 2018, is expected to be paid, primarily within one year, to approximately 500 employees, who have either been severed or have been notified of their severance and have begun or will begin receiving payments.


During the three months ended September 30, 2017, the Company recorded net reorganization of business charges of $8 million including $6 million of charges in Other charges and $2 million of charges in Cost of sales in the Company's condensed consolidated statements of operations. Included in the $8 million were charges of $7 million related to employee separation costs and $1 million related to exit costs.

During the nine months ended September 30, 2017, the Company recorded net reorganization of business charges of $30 million including $22 million of charges in Other charges and $8 million of charges in Cost of sales in the Company's condensed consolidated statements of operations. Included in the $30 million were charges of $30 million related to employee separation costs and $5 million for exit costs, partially offset by $5 million of reversals for accruals no longer needed.




14. Intangible Assets and Goodwill

The Company accounts for acquisitions using purchase accounting with the results of operations for each acquiree included in the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements for the period subsequent to the date of acquisition.

Avigilon Corporation

 On March 28, 2018, the Company completed the acquisition of Avigilon Corporation, a provider of advanced end-to-end security and surveillance solutions including video analytics, network video management hardware and software, surveillance cameras and access control solutions. The purchase price of $974 million, consisted of cash payments of $980 million for outstanding common stock, restricted stock units and employee held stock options, net of cash acquired of $107 million, debt assumed of $75 million and transaction costs of $26 million. Prior to the end of the first quarter, $35 million of the assumed debt was repaid with the remaining $40 million repaid during the second quarter of 2018. 



Acquired intangible assets consist of $110 million of customer relationships, $380 million of developed technology and $8 million of trade names and will have useful lives of two to 20 years. The fair values of all intangible assets were estimated using the income approach. Customer relationships and developed technology were valued under the excess earnings method which assumes that the value of an intangible asset is equal to the present value of the incremental after-tax cash flows attributable specifically to the intangible asset. Trade names were valued under the relief from royalty method, which assumes value to the extent that the acquired company is relieved of the obligation to pay royalties for the benefits received from them.

 Goodwill is calculated as the excess of the consideration transferred over the net assets recognized and represents the future economic benefits arising from the other assets acquired that could not be individually identified and separately recognized. Goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes.

The pro forma effect of this acquisition is not significant.

Other Acquisitions

On April 9, 2018, the Company completed the acquisition of a provider of two-way radio communications for a gross purchase price of $11 million, recognizing $7 million of identifiable intangible assets, which will be amortized over a period of seven years. The results of operations for this acquisition have been included in the Company’s condensed consolidated statements of operations subsequent to the acquisition date. 

On March 7, 2018, the Company completed the acquisition of Plant Holdings, Inc., the parent company of Airbus DS Communications for a purchase price of $237 million net cash. This acquisition will expand the Company's software portfolio in the command center with additional solutions for Next Generation 9-1-1. The Company recognized $161 million of goodwill, $80 million of identifiable intangible assets and $4 million of acquired liabilities. Goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes. The identifiable intangible assets were classified as $41 million of customer-related intangibles, $27 million of completed technology and $12 million of trade names. The identifiable intangible assets will be amortized over a period of 10 to 20 years. The purchase accounting is not yet complete and as such the final allocation between deferred income tax accounts and goodwill may be subject to change.

On August 28, 2017, the Company completed the acquisition of Kodiak Networks, a provider of broadband push-to-talk (PTT) for commercial customers, for a purchase price of $225 million. As a result of the acquisition, the Company recognized $191 million of goodwill, $44 million of identifiable intangible assets and $10 million of acquired liabilities. The identifiable intangible assets were classified as $25 million of customer-related intangibles and $19 million of completed technology and will be amortized over a period of 13 to 16 years. 


On March 13, 2017, the Company completed the acquisition of Interexport, a company that provides services for communications systems to public safety and commercial customers in Chile, for a purchase price of $98 billion Chilean pesos, or approximately $147 million U.S. dollars based on cash payments of $55 million, net of cash acquired, and assumed liabilities of $92 million, primarily related to capital leases. As a result of the acquisition, the Company recognized $61 million of identifiable intangible assets, $70 million of acquired property, plant and equipment and $16 million of net other tangible assets. The estimated identifiable intangible assets were classified as $56 million of customer-related intangibles and $5 million of other intangibles and will be amortized over a period of seven years. 

The pro forma effects of these acquisitions are not significant.

Intangible Assets



Amortization expense on intangible assets was $46 million for the three months ended September 29, 2018 and $140 million for the nine months ended September 29, 2018. Amortization expense on intangible assets was $39 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017 and $111 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017. As of September 29, 2018, annual amortization expense is estimated to be $189 million in 2018, $193 million in 2019, $191 million in 2020, $187 million in 2021, $184 million in 2022, and $84 million in 2023.



Goodwill





Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

This commentary should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto of Motorola Solutions, Inc. (“Motorola Solutions” or the “Company,” “we,” “our,” or “us”) for the three and nine months ended September 29, 2018 and September 30, 2017, as well as our consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto and management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.


Executive Overview

Recent Developments

We have reached an agreement with the UK Home Office on terms for the new direction of the UK Emergency Services Network (“ESN”) as well as an agreement on terms to extend the Airwave contract through 2022.

On March 28, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Avigilon Corporation, a provider of advanced end-to-end security and surveillance solutions including video analytics, network video management hardware and software, surveillance cameras and access control solutions for a purchase price of $974 million.

On March 7, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Plant Holdings, Inc., the parent company of Airbus DS Communications for a purchase price of $237 million. This acquisition expands our software portfolio in the command center with additional solutions for Next Generation 9-1-1. 

Our Business

We are a leading global provider of mission-critical communication infrastructure, devices, accessories, software, and services. Our products and services help government, public safety and commercial customers improve their operations through increased effectiveness, efficiency, and safety of their mobile workforces. We serve our customers with a global footprint of sales in more than 100 countries and 16,000 employees worldwide, based on our industry leading innovation and a deep portfolio of products and services.








Results of Operations




Results of Operations—Three months ended September 29, 2018 compared to three months ended September 30, 2017 

The results of operations for the third quarter of 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the operating results to be expected for the full year. Historically, we have experienced higher revenues in the fourth quarter as compared to the rest of the quarters of our fiscal year as a result of the purchasing patterns of our customers.

Net Sales

Net sales were $1.9 billion in the third quarter of 2018, a $217 million, or 13%, increase compared to the third quarter of 2017. The net sales increase for the third quarter of 2018 included $145 million from acquisitions and $19 million from the adoption of ASC 606 (see Note 1 of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements), partially offset by $9 million from unfavorable foreign currency rates. The Products and Systems Integration segment grew 10% driven by the Americas and EMEA. The Services and Software segment grew 22% with growth in all regions.

The increase in net sales is reflective of growth in the Americas and EMEA. Devices net sales within the Products and Systems Integration segment increased in the Americas and EMEA and decreased in AP. Systems and Systems Integration net sales within the Products and Systems Integration segment increased in every region. The Services and Software segment net sales increased in every region. The Services and Software segment net sales increase in the Americas was driven by acquisitions within the Software business and growth absent of acquisitions in both Services and Software. The Services and Software segment net sales increase in EMEA was primarily driven by growth absent of acquisitions in Services. The Services and Software segment net sales increase in AP was driven by growth absent of acquisitions in both Services and Software. 

Gross Margin 

Gross margin was $901 million, or 48.4% of net sales, in the third quarter of 2018, compared to $794 million, or 48.3% of net sales, in the third quarter of 2017. The increase in gross margin was primarily driven by the adoption of ASC 606 and a favorable mix within the Services and Software segment, partially offset by lower margins in the Products and Systems Integration segment due to acquisitions and lower margins on a few large projects.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses


Research and Development Expenditures


Other Charges


Net Interest Expense

Net interest expense was $59 million in the third quarter of 2018 and $52 million in the third quarter of 2017. The increase in net interest expense in the third quarter of 2018 as compared to the third quarter of 2017 was a result of increases in outstanding debt issued during 2018.

Gains on Sales of Investments and Businesses, net

Net gains on sales of investments and businesses were $6 million in the third quarter of 2018. The net gains were related to the sales of various equity investments. 

Other



Effective Tax Rate


Results of Operations—Nine months ended September 29, 2018 compared to nine months ended September 30, 2017 

Net Sales

Net sales were $5.1 billion in the first nine months of 2018, a $666 million, or 15%, increase compared to the first nine months of 2017. The net sales increase for the first nine months of 2018 included $347 million from acquisitions, $58 million from the adoption of ASC 606 (see Note 1 of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements), and $56 million from favorable foreign currency rates. The Products and Systems Integration segment grew 11% driven by the Americas and EMEA. The Services and Software segment grew 23% with growth in all regions.

The increase in net sales is reflective of growth in every region. Within the Products and Systems Integration segment, Devices net sales increased in the Americas and EMEA and decreased in AP and Systems and Systems Integration net sales increased in every region. The Services and Software segment increased in every region. The Services and Software segment net sales increase in the Americas was driven by acquisitions within the Software business, the acquisition of Interexport in Services and growth absent of acquisitions in both Services and Software. The Services and Software segment net sales increase in EMEA was primarily driven by growth absent of acquisitions in Services. The Services and Software segment net sales increase in AP was driven by the acquisition of Kodiak Networks in the Software business and growth absent of acquisitions in both Services and the Software businesses.

Gross Margin 

Gross margin was $2.4 billion, or 47.0% of net sales, in the first nine months of 2018, compared to $2.1 billion, or 46.4% of net sales, in the first nine months of 2017. The increase in gross margin percentage was primarily driven by the adoption of ASC 606 and improved margins in the Services and Software segment, partially offset by lower margins in the Products and Systems Integration segment due to acquisitions and lower margins on a few large projects.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses


Research and Development Expenditures


Other Charges



Net Interest Expense

Net interest expense was $163 million in the first nine months of 2018 and $154 million in the first nine months of 2017. The increase in net interest expense in the first nine months of 2018 as compared to the first nine months of 2017 was a result of increases in outstanding debt.

Gains on Sales of Investments and Businesses, net

Net gains on sales of investments and businesses were $16 million in the first nine months of 2018 compared to $3 million in the first nine months of 2017. The net gains in the first nine months of 2018 and 2017 were primarily related to the sales of various equity investments. 

Other


Effective Tax Rate


Segment Information

The following commentary should be read in conjunction with the financial results of each reporting segment for the three and nine months ended September 29, 2018 and September 30, 2017, as detailed in Note 12, “Segment Information,” of our condensed consolidated financial statements.

Products and Systems Integration Segment

For the third quarter of 2018, the segment’s net sales represented 69% of our consolidated net sales, compared to 71% of our consolidated net sales for the third quarter of 2017. For the first nine months of 2018, the segment's net sales represented 67% of our consolidated net sales, compared to 70% of our consolidated net sales for the first nine months of 2017.


Three months ended September 29, 2018 compared to three months ended September 30, 2017 

The segment’s net sales increased $114 million, to $1.3 billion in the third quarter of 2018, as compared to $1.2 billion during the third quarter of 2017. The increase in the segment's net sales was driven by an increase in Devices and Systems and Systems Integration sales. Devices net sales increased in the Americas and EMEA due to the acquisition of Avigilon and growth absent of acquisitions and decreased in AP. Systems and Systems Integration net sales increased in the Americas and EMEA due to the acquisition of Avigilon. Systems and Systems Integration net sales increased in AP due to the acquisition of Avigilon and growth absent of acquisitions. 

Net sales in the Americas continued to comprise a significant portion of the segment’s business, accounting for approximately 74% of the segment’s net sales in the third quarter of 2018, compared to 73% of the segment's net sales in the third quarter of 2017. 

The segment had operating earnings of $183 million in the third quarter of 2018, compared to $266 million in the third quarter of 2017. The decrease in operating earnings in the third quarter of 2018 compared to the third quarter of 2017 was driven 



Nine months ended September 29, 2018 compared to nine months ended September 30, 2017 

The segment’s net sales increased $353 million, to $3.4 billion in the first nine months of 2018, as compared to $3.1 billion during the first nine months of 2017. The increase in the segment's net sales was driven by an increase in Devices and Systems and Systems Integration sales. Devices net sales increased in the Americas and EMEA due to the acquisition of Avigilon and growth absent of acquisitions and decreased in AP. Systems and Systems Integration net sales increased in the Americas and EMEA due to the acquisition of Avigilon. Systems and Systems Integration net sales increased in AP due to the acquisition of Avigilon and growth absent of acquisitions. 

Net sales in the Americas continued to comprise a significant portion of the segment’s business, accounting for approximately 74% of the segment’s net sales in the first nine months of 2018, compared to 73% of the segment's net sales in the first nine months of 2017. 


Services and Software Segment

For third quarter of 2018, the segment’s net sales represented 31% of our consolidated net sales, compared to 29% of our consolidated net sales for the third quarter of 2017. For the first nine months of 2018, the segment's net sales represented 33% of our consolidated net sales, compared to 30% of our consolidated net sales for the first nine months of 2017.


Three months ended September 29, 2018 compared to three months ended September 30, 2017 

The segment’s net sales increased $103 million, or 22%, to $574 million in the third quarter of 2018, as compared to $471 million in the third quarter of 2017. The increase in the segment's net sales was driven by acquisitions within the Software business, as well as growth absent of acquisitions in both Services and Software. On a geographic basis, net sales for the third quarter of 2018 increased in every region, compared to the third quarter of 2017. 

Net sales in the Americas continued to comprise a significant portion of the segment’s business, accounting for approximately 60% of the segment’s net sales in the third quarter of 2018, compared to 56% of the segment’s net sales in the third quarter of 2017.


Nine months ended September 29, 2018 compared to nine months ended September 30, 2017 

The segment’s net sales increased $313 million, or 23%, to $1.7 billion in the first nine months of 2018, as compared to $1.3 billion in the first nine months of 2017. The increase in the segment's net sales was driven by acquisitions within the Software business and the Interexport acquisition within Services, as well as growth absent of acquisitions in both Services and Software. On a geographic basis, net sales for the first nine months of 2018 increased in every region, compared to the first nine months of 2017. 

Net sales in the Americas continued to comprise a significant portion of the segment’s business, accounting for approximately 58% of the segment’s net sales in the first nine months of 2018, compared to 55% of the segment’s net sales in the first nine months of 2017.



Reorganization of Business

During the third quarter of 2018, we recorded net reorganization of business charges of $25 million including $21 million of charges recorded within Other charges and $4 million in Cost of sales in our condensed consolidated statements of operations. Included in the $25 million were charges of $13 million related to employee separation costs and $12 million related to exit costs. 

During the first nine months of 2018, we recorded net reorganization of business charges of $62 million including $46 million of charges recorded within Other charges and $16 million in Cost of sales in our condensed consolidated statements of operations. Included in the $62 million were charges of $61 million related to employee separation costs and $16 million related to exit costs, partially offset by $15 million of reversals for accruals no longer needed.

During the third quarter of 2017, we recorded net reorganization of business charges of $8 million including $6 million of charges recorded within Other charges and $2 million in Cost of sales in our condensed consolidated statements of operations. Included in the $8 million were charges of $7 million related to employee separation costs and $1 million related to exit costs. 

During the first nine months of 2017, we recorded net reorganization of business charges of $30 million including $22 million of charges recorded within Other charges and $8 million in Cost of sales in our condensed consolidated statements of operations. Included in the $30 million were charges of $30 million related to employee separation costs and $5 million related to exit costs, partially offset by $5 million of reversals for accruals no longer needed.



Cash payments for employee severance and exit costs in connection with the reorganization of business plans were $51 million in the first nine months of 2018 and $77 million in the first nine months of 2017. The reorganization of business accruals at September 29, 2018 were $61 million, of which $39 million relate to employee separation costs that are expected to be paid within one year and $22 million of accruals related primarily to lease termination obligations that are expected to be paid over a number of years.

Liquidity and Capital Resources


Cash and Cash Equivalents

At September 29, 2018, $290 million of the $851 million cash and cash equivalents balance was held in the U.S. and $561 million was held by us or our subsidiaries in other countries, with approximately $200 million held in the United Kingdom. Restricted cash was $12 million at September 29, 2018 and $63 million at December 31, 2017. During the three months ended September 29, 2018, restricted cash decreased from $63 million to $12 million due to the completion of a settlement related to our legacy Networks business. 

Operating Activities

Net cash provided by operating activities in the first nine months of 2018 decreased $322 million, compared to the first nine months of 2017. Operating cash flows in the first nine months of 2018, as compared to the first nine months of 2017, were negatively impacted by a $500 million contribution to our U.S. pension plan in February 2018, a settlement payment related to our legacy Networks business, higher incentive payments, and the recovery of financial receivables owed to us by a former customer in the first quarter of 2017, partially offset by improved working capital. The contribution to our U.S. pension plan moves the next anticipated required contribution to 2024, or beyond.


Investing Activities

Net cash used by investing activities increased $781 million in the first nine months of 2018, compared to the first nine months of 2017. The $1.2 billion of cash used in the first nine months of 2018 included $1.2 billion used for acquisitions and investments and $128 million in capital expenditures, partially offset by $90 million of proceeds from sales of investments and businesses. The cash usage of $415 million in the first nine months of 2017 consisted primarily of $383 million cash used for acquisitions and investments and $206 million in capital expenditures, partially offset by $174 million of proceeds from the sale of investments and businesses.




Financing Activities



To complete the acquisition of Avigilon during the quarter ended March 31, 2018, we entered into a term loan for $400 million with a maturity date of March 26, 2021 (the “Term Loan”). Interest on the Term Loan is variable, indexed to LIBOR, and paid monthly. The weighted average borrowing rate for amounts outstanding during the three and nine months ended September 29, 2018 were 3.33% and 3.43%, respectively. No additional borrowings are permitted and amounts borrowed and repaid or prepaid may not be re-borrowed. 

In February of 2018, we issued $500 million of 4.60% Senior notes due 2028. After debt issuance costs and debt discounts, we recognized net proceeds of $497 million. These proceeds were then used to make a $500 million contribution to our U.S. pension plan in the first quarter of 2018.

On August 25, 2015, we entered into an agreement with Silver Lake Partners to issue $1.0 billion of 2.00% Senior Convertible Notes which mature in September 2020. The notes became fully convertible as of August 25, 2017. The notes are convertible based on a conversion rate of 14.8252, as may be adjusted for dividends declared, per $1,000 principal amount (which is currently equal to a conversion price of $67.45 per share). The exercise price adjusts automatically for dividends. On September 5, 2018, we agreed with Silver Lake Partners to repurchase $200 million in principal amount of the Senior Convertible Notes for aggregate consideration of $369 million in cash, inclusive of the conversion premium. As of September 29, 2018, we paid $169 million of cash to Silver Lake Partners and recorded a gain of $6 million from the extinguishment of the convertible debt. The principal amount of $200 million was reclassified to short term debt. In the event of an additional conversion, the notes may be settled in either cash or stock, at our discretion. We intend to settle the principal amount of the Senior Convertible Notes in cash.

On September 28, 2018, we issued an additional $200 million on the outstanding 4.60% Senior notes due 2028 bringing the outstanding total to $700 million. We settled the issuance on October 5, 2018 and recognized net proceeds of $196 million, subsequent to quarter end, which was then used to pay the $200 million principal due to Silver Lake Partners on October 15, 2018. 

We continue to believe that we hold sufficient liquidity to cover the day-to-day operations of our business as well as any future volatility or uncertainty that may arise in the capital markets.





Credit Facilities

As of September 29, 2018, we had a $2.2 billion syndicated, unsecured revolving credit facility scheduled to mature in April 2022 (the "2017 Motorola Solutions Credit Agreement"). As of March 31, 2018, we borrowed $400 million under the facility to complete the Avigilon acquisition. As of September 29, 2018, the outstanding loan amount under the facility was $100 million, with $200 million paid during the third quarter. Subsequent to the quarter, we paid the remaining $100 million. The 2017 Motorola Solutions Credit Agreement includes a $500 million letter of credit sub-limit with $450 million of fronting commitments. Borrowings under the facility bear interest at the prime rate plus the applicable margin, or at a spread above the London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR"), at our option. The weighted average borrowing rate on outstanding amounts for the three and nine months ended September 29, 2018 was 3.58%. An annual facility fee is payable on the undrawn amount of the credit line. The interest rate and facility fee are subject to adjustment if our credit rating changes. We must comply with certain customary covenants including a maximum leverage ratio, as defined in the 2017 Motorola Solutions Credit Agreement. We were in compliance with our financial covenants as of September 29, 2018. 

Long-Term Customer Financing Commitments


Sales of Receivables



At September 29, 2018, the Company had retained servicing obligations for $879 million of long-term receivables, compared to $873 million at December 31, 2017. Servicing obligations are limited to collection activities related to the sales of accounts receivables and long-term receivables. 

Other Contingencies

There were no significant changes impacting our commitments and contingencies during the three months ended September 29, 2018.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2016-02, "Leases," which amends existing guidance to require lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by long-term leases and to disclose additional quantitative and qualitative information about leasing arrangements. The ASU is effective for us on January 1, 2019 and interim periods within that reporting period, with early adoption permitted. In July 2018 the FASB issued ASU 2018-11 that amended the ASU to include an additional (and optional) transition relief. The additional transition relief provides entities the option to adopt the ASU by applying the new ASU at the adoption date and recognizing a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the period of adoption without restatement of comparative periods. The new ASU must be adopted utilizing the modified retrospective method as of the earliest comparative period presented if the optional adoption method is not selected. We will adopt the ASU on January 1, 2019, utilizing the modified retrospective method as of the adoption date. We are continuing to assess the impact of the ASU on our financial statements, including the package of available practical expedients, required disclosures, and changes to internal controls. Based on the preliminary work completed, we expect a material impact to our balance sheet through the recording of right-of-use assets and lease obligations that are not required to be recorded within the balance sheet under current accounting standards.




In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-14, “Compensation - Retirement Benefits - Defined Benefit Plans - General (Subtopic 715-20) - Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Defined Benefit Plans,” which modifies the disclosure requirements for the defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement plans. The ASU is effective for us on January 1, 2020 with early adoption permitted. The ASU requires a retrospective adoption method. We do not believe the ASU will have a material impact on our financial statement disclosures.

Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements


We adopted ASU No. 2017-07, “Compensation - Retirement Benefits (Topic 715) - Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost” on January 1, 2018 using the retrospective method of adoption. The amendments in the ASU require that an employer disaggregate the service cost component from the other components of net periodic cost (benefit) and report that component in the same line item as other compensation costs arising from services rendered by employees during the period. The other components of net periodic cost (benefit) are required to be presented in the statement of operations separately from the service cost component and outside of operating earnings. We have restated our comparative period results to reflect the application of the presentation guidance of the ASU. As a result of the ASU, the presentation of net periodic cost (benefit) has been updated to classify all components of our net periodic benefit, with the exception of the service cost component, within Other in Other income (expense) on the statement of operations. We reclassified $18 million and $10 million in the three months ended September 29, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively, and $58 million and $10 million in the nine months ended September 29, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively.

We adopted ASU No. 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers," and all the related amendments (collectively “ASC 606”) on January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method. We recognized the cumulative effect of initially applying the new revenue standard as an adjustment to our opening retained earnings. The comparative information has not been restated and continues to be reported under the accounting standards in effect in those periods.

We retained much of the same accounting treatment used to recognize revenue under ASC 606 as under accounting standards in effect in prior periods. Revenue on a significant portion of our System and Integration services contracts continues to be recognized under percentage of completion accounting, applying a cost-to-cost method. Services contracts continue to be recognized ratably over relevant contract terms as we stand ready to perform. Finally, revenue on equipment sales continues to be recognized based on delivery terms as aligned with the transfer of control.


Under the new standard, revenue recognition for software sales is accelerated based on when control of software licenses and related support services are transferred to the customer. Amounts deferred under previous software accounting rules due to a lack of vendor-specific objective evidence have been recognized as an adjustment through opening retained earnings.


 Historically, we presented transactions that involved a third-party sales representative on a net basis. After considering the control concept and the remaining three indicators of gross presentation under the new standard, we have determined that we are the principal in contracts that involve a third-party sales representative. Thus, we present associated revenues on a gross basis, with the affect being an equal increase to selling, general and administrative expenses for our cost of third-party commissions.

Under prior accounting standards, we expensed sales commissions and other costs to obtain a contract as incurred. However, under the new standard, we capitalize sales commissions and certain other costs as incremental costs to obtain a contract. Such costs are classified as non-current contract cost assets within Other assets and amortized over a period that approximates the timing of revenue recognition on the underlying contracts.

The new standard clarified the definition of a receivable and requires us to present our net position in a contract with a customer on the balance sheet. The position is presented as either a receivable, contract asset, or a contract liability. Under the new definition, accounts receivable are unconditional rights to consideration from a customer. Contract assets represent rights to consideration from a customer in exchange for transferred goods and services that are conditional on events other than the passage of time. Contract liabilities represent obligations to transfer goods and services for which we have received, or is due, consideration from a customer respectively. We reclassified our customer positions to align with the new definitions and presentation guidance. Accordingly, Unbilled accounts receivable and Costs and earnings in excess of billings have been reclassified from Accounts receivable and Other current assets, respectively, and are presented as Contract assets. Accounts receivable which are not due from customers have been reclassified into Other current assets. Deferred revenue, Billings in excess of costs and earnings, and Customer downpayments have been reclassified from Accrued liabilities and are presented as Contract liabilities. Non-current deferred revenue has been reclassified from Deferred revenue to Non-current contract liabilities within Other liabilities.


Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Derivative Financial Instruments

As of September 29, 2018, we had outstanding foreign exchange contracts with notional amounts totaling $782 million, compared to $507 million outstanding as of December 31, 2017. Management believes that these financial instruments should not subject us to undue risk due to foreign exchange movements because gains and losses on these contracts should generally offset gains and losses on the underlying assets, liabilities and transactions.



Forward-Looking Statements

Except for historical matters, the matters discussed in this Form 10-Q are forward-looking statements within the meaning of applicable federal securities law. These statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and generally include words such as “believes,” “expects,” “intends,” “aims,” “estimates” and similar expressions. We can give no assurance that any future results or events discussed in these statements will be achieved. Any forward-looking statements represent our views only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date. Readers are cautioned that such forward-looking statements are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the statements contained in this Form 10-Q. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements included in: (1) “Financial Statements,” about: (a) the recognition of revenue in future periods, and (b) our ability to settle the principal amount of the Senior Convertible Notes in cash, (2) “Management's Discussion and Analysis,” about: (a) trends affecting our business, including: (i) the impact of global economic and political conditions (ii) the impact of acquisitions on our business, (iii) the growth of our Services and Software segment and the resulting impact on operating margin, (iv) the focus on Services and Software and our expected growth opportunities, (b) the accuracy of the reserve estimate related to an environmental liability, (c) our business strategies and expected results, (d) future payments, charges, use of accruals and expected cost-saving benefits associated with our productivity improvement plans, reorganization of business programs, and employee separation costs, (e) our ability and cost to repatriate funds, (f) our ability to settle the principal amount of the Senior Convertible Notes in cash, (g) our ability and cost to access the capital markets at our current ratings, (h) our ability to borrow and the amount available under our credit facilities, (i) our plans with respect to the level of outstanding debt, (j) the return of capital to shareholders through dividends and/or repurchasing shares, (k) the adequacy of our cash balances to meet current operating requirements, (l) potential contractual damages claims, and (m) the outcome and effect of ongoing and future legal proceedings, (3) The impact of new FASB Accounting Standards Updates on our financial statements, (4) “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk,” about the impact of foreign currency exchange risks, (5) "Controls and Procedures," about the implementation of our enterprise resource planning systems, and (6) “Legal Proceedings,” about the ultimate disposition of pending legal matters. Motorola Solutions undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement or risk factor, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.

Some of the risk factors that affect our business and financial results are discussed within this document, in Part I, “Item 1A: Risk Factors” on pages 8 through 20 of our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other SEC filings available for free on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov and on Motorola Solutions' website at www.motorolasolutions.com. We wish to caution the reader that the risk factors discussed in each of these documents and those described in our other Securities and Exchange Commission filings, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those stated in the forward-looking statements.


Item 4. Controls and Procedures



We are in the process of a multi-year phased upgrade and consolidation of our ERP systems into a single global platform across our businesses. In April 2017, we implemented our new ERP system which is functioning as designed and continuing to support our business. Our new ERP system includes the replacement of regional systems supporting our product based business and back end finance processes including our general ledger. The system also includes the replacement of our current indirect procurement and service contract systems. We have made appropriate changes to our internal controls over financial reporting as we have implemented the new system. We plan to continue to migrate the remaining parts of the business off regional systems as we work towards a single global platform. We will continue to modify our internal controls in response to changes in the underlying ERP on future phases as needed.


Part II—Other Information

Item 1. Legal Proceedings

The Company is a defendant in various lawsuits, claims, and actions, which arise in the normal course of business. In the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's condensed consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations. However, an unfavorable resolution could have a material adverse effect on the Company's condensed consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations in the periods in which the matters are ultimately resolved, or in the periods in which more information is obtained that changes management's opinion of the ultimate disposition.

Item 1A. Risk Factors

The reader should carefully consider, in connection with the other information in this report, the factors discussed in Part I, “Item 1A: Risk Factors” on pages 8 through 20 of the Company’s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K and “Item 1A: Risk Factors” on page 44 of the Company’s 2018 second quarter Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. These factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those stated in forward-looking statements contained in this document and elsewhere.


Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds

None.

Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities.

None.

Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures.

None.

Item 5. Other Information.

None.


Item 6. Exhibits




 MOTOROLA, MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS and the Stylized M Logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Motorola Trademark Holdings, LLC and are used under license. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. ©2018 Motorola Solutions, Inc. All rights reserved.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.




EXHIBIT INDEX




