

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION







For the period ended September 28, 2019 

or


For the transition period from to 



MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS, INC. 















The number of shares outstanding of each of the issuer’s classes of common stock as of the close of business on October 15, 2019 was 171,336,026. 


Part I—Financial Information

 Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations



See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).


Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income



See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).


Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets


See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).


Condensed Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity



See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).




See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).


Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows



See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).


Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements




Basis of Presentation

The condensed consolidated financial statements as of September 28, 2019 and for the three and nine months ended September 28, 2019 and September 29, 2018 include, in the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring adjustments and reclassifications) necessary to present fairly the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, Statements of Operations, Statements of Comprehensive Income, Statements of Stockholders' Equity, and Statements of Cash Flows of Motorola Solutions, Inc. (“Motorola Solutions” or the “Company”) for all periods presented.

Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted. These condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company’s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. The results of operations for the three and nine months ended September 28, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the operating results to be expected for the full year. 

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Recent Acquisitions

On July 11, 2019, the Company acquired WatchGuard, Inc. ("WatchGuard"), a provider of in-car and body-worn video solutions for $271 million, inclusive of share-based compensation withheld at a fair value of $16 million that will be expensed over an average service period of two years. The acquisition was settled with $250 million of cash, net of cash acquired. The acquisition expands the Company's video security solutions platform.

On March 11, 2019, the Company announced that it acquired Avtec, Inc. ("Avtec"), a provider of dispatch communication equipment for U.S. public safety and commercial customers for a purchase price of $136 million in cash, net of cash acquired. This acquisition expands the Company's commercial portfolio with new capabilities, allowing it to offer an enhanced platform for customers to communicate, coordinate resources, and secure their facilities.

On January 7, 2019, the Company announced that it acquired VaaS International Holdings ("VaaS"), a company that is a global provider of data and image analytics for vehicle location for $445 million, inclusive of share-based compensation withheld at a fair value of $38 million that will be expensed over an average service period of one year. The acquisition was settled with $231 million of cash, net of cash acquired, and 1.4 million of shares issued at a fair value of $160 million for a purchase price of $391 million.

On March 28, 2018, the Company completed the acquisition of Avigilon Corporation ("Avigilon"), a provider of advanced security and video solutions including video analytics, network video management hardware and software, video cameras and access control solutions for a purchase price of $974 million in cash, net of cash acquired, debt assumed, and transaction costs paid.

On March 7, 2018, the Company completed the acquisition of Plant Holdings, Inc. ("Plant"), the parent company of Airbus DS Communications for a purchase price of $237 million in cash, net of cash acquired. This acquisition expanded the Company's software portfolio in the command center with additional solutions for Next Generation 9-1-1.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-14, “Compensation - Retirement Benefits - Defined Benefit Plans - General (Subtopic 715-20) - Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Defined Benefit Plans,” which modifies the disclosure requirements for the defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement plans. The ASU is effective for the Company on January 1, 2021 with early adoption permitted. The ASU requires a retrospective adoption method. The Company does not believe the ASU will have a material impact on its financial statement disclosures.



Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements

In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2016-02, "Leases," which amends existing guidance to require lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by long-term leases and to disclose additional quantitative and qualitative information about leasing arrangements. This was subsequently amended by ASU No. 2018-01, “Land Easement Practical Expedient for Transition to Topic 842,” ASU No. 2018-10, “Codification Improvements to Topic 842, Leases,” and ASU No. 2018-11, “Targeted Improvements” (collectively "ASC 842"). ASC 842 establishes a right-of-use model ("ROU") that requires a lessee to recognize a ROU asset and lease liability on the balance sheet for all leases with an initial term longer than twelve months. Leases will be classified as finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern and presentation of expense recognition in the income statement.

The Company adopted ASC 842 as of January 1, 2019 using a modified retrospective transition approach for all leases existing at January 1, 2019, the date of the initial application. Consequently, financial information will not be updated and disclosures required under ASC 842 will not be provided for dates and periods before January 1, 2019.

ASC 842 provides for a number of optional practical expedients in transition. The Company elected the practical expedients, which permit the Company to not reassess prior conclusions about lease identification, lease classification and initial direct costs under ASC 842. The Company did not elect the "use-of hindsight" practical expedient to determine the lease term or in assessing the likelihood that a lease purchase option will be exercised, allowing it to carry forward the lease term as determined prior to adoption of ASC 842. Finally, the Company also elected the practical expedient related to land easements, which enabled it to continue its accounting treatment for land easements on existing agreements as of January 1, 2019.

ASC 842 also provides practical expedients for an entity’s ongoing accounting. The Company elected the short-term lease recognition exemption for all leases that qualify. A short-term lease is one with a term of 12 months or less, including any optional periods that are reasonably certain of exercise. For those leases that qualify, the exemption allows the Company to not recognize ROU assets or lease liabilities, including not recognizing ROU assets or lease liabilities for existing short-term leases at transition. Short-term lease costs are recognized as rent expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term consistent with the Company’s prior accounting. The Company also elected the practical expedient to not separate lease and non-lease components for all current lease categories. 

As of January 1, 2019, the Company recognized operating lease liabilities of $648 million based on the present value of the remaining minimum rental payments determined under prior lease accounting standards and corresponding ROU assets of $588 million. The $60 million difference between operating lease liabilities and ROU assets recognized is due to deferred rent and exit cost accruals recorded under prior lease accounting standards. ASC 842 requires such balances to be reclassified against ROU assets at transition.



2. Revenue from Contracts with Customers

Disaggregation of Revenue





Remaining Performance Obligations 

Remaining performance obligations represent the revenue that is expected to be recognized in future periods related to performance obligations that are unsatisfied, or partially unsatisfied, as of the end of a period. The transaction price associated with remaining performance obligations which are not yet satisfied as of September 28, 2019 is $7.1 billion. A total of $3.2 billion is from Products and Systems Integration performance obligations that are not yet satisfied, of which $1.7 billion is expected to be recognized in the next twelve months. The remaining amounts will generally be satisfied over time as systems are implemented. A total of $3.9 billion is from Services and Software performance obligations that are not yet satisfied as of September 28, 2019. The determination of Services and Software performance obligations that are not satisfied takes into account a contract term that may be limited by the customer’s ability to terminate for convenience. Where termination for convenience exists in the Company's service contracts, its disclosure of the remaining performance obligations that are unsatisfied assumes the contract term is limited until renewal. The Company expects to recognize $1.2 billion from unsatisfied Services and Software performance obligations over the next twelve months, with the remaining performance obligations to be recognized over time as services are performed and software is implemented. 

Contract Balances


Revenue recognized during the three months ended September 28, 2019 which was previously included in Contract liabilities as of June 29, 2019 is $342 million, compared to $327 million of revenue recognized during the three months ended September 29, 2018 which was previously included in Contract liabilities as of July 1, 2018. Revenue recognized during the nine months ended September 28, 2019 which was previously included in Contract liabilities as of December 31, 2018 is $783 million, compared to $777 million of revenue recognized during the nine months ended September 29, 2018 which was previously included in Contract liabilities as of January 1, 2018. Revenue of $26 million and $42 million was reversed during the three and nine months ended September 28, 2019, respectively, which were primarily driven by changes in the estimates of progress on two Americas system contracts, compared to $7 million and $4 million of reversals for the three and nine months ended September 29, 2018, respectively.


There were no material impairment losses recognized on contract assets during the three and nine months ended September 28, 2019 and September 29, 2018.

Contract Cost Balances


Amortization of non-current contract cost assets was $10 million and $11 million for the three months ended September 28, 2019 and September 29, 2018, respectively, and $32 million and $34 million for the nine months ended September 28, 2019 and September 29, 2018, respectively.


The Company leases certain office, factory and warehouse space, land, and other equipment, principally under non-cancelable operating leases. 

The Company determines if an arrangement is a lease at inception of the contract. The Company's key decisions in determining whether a contract is or contains a lease include establishing whether the supplier has the ability to use other assets to fulfill its service or whether the terms of the agreement enable the Company to control the use of a dedicated asset during the contract term. In the majority of the Company's contracts where it must identify whether a lease is present, it is readily determinable that the Company controls the use of the assets and obtains substantially all of the economic benefit during the term of the contract. In those contracts where identification is not readily determinable, the Company has determined that the supplier has either the ability to use another asset to provide the service or the terms of the contract give the supplier the rights to operate the asset at its discretion during the term of the contract. 

ROU assets and operating lease liabilities are recognized based on the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term at the commencement date. The Company's lease payments are typically fixed or contain fixed escalators. The Company has elected to not separate lease and non-lease components for all of its current lease categories and therefore, all consideration is included in the lease liabilities. For the Company's leases consisting of both land and other equipment (i.e. "communication network sites"), future payments are subject to variability due to changes in indices or rates. The Company values its ROU assets and lease liabilities based on the index or rate in effect at lease commencement. Future changes in the indices or rates are accounted for as variable lease costs. Other variable lease costs also include items that are not fixed at lease commencement including property taxes, insurance, and operating charges that vary based on usage. ROU assets also include lease payments made in advance and are net of lease incentives.

As the majority of the Company's leases do not provide an implicit rate, the Company uses its incremental borrowing rates based on the information available at the commencement date in determining the present value of future payments. The Company's incremental borrowing rates are based on the term of the lease, the economic environment of the lease, and the effect of collateralization. 

The Company's lease terms range from one to twenty-one years and may include options to extend the lease by one to ten years or terminate the lease after the initial non-cancelable term. The Company does not include options in the determination of the lease term for the majority of leases as sufficient economic factors do not exist that would compel it to continue to use the underlying asset beyond the initial non-cancelable term. However, for the Company's communication network site leases that are necessary to provide services to customers under managed service arrangements, the Company includes options in the lease term to the extent of the customer contracts to which those leases relate. 












Rental expense, net of sublease income, for the year ended December 31, 2018 was $108 million. 



4. Other Financial Data

Statements of Operations Information

Other Charges (Income)



During the nine months ended September 28, 2019, the Company recognized $4 million of acquisition-related transaction fees compared to $17 million for the Avigilon and Plant acquisitions during the nine months ended September 29, 2018.



Other Income (Expense)



During the three months ended September 28, 2019, the Company recognized a foreign currency gain of $3 million, primarily driven by the Euro, the British Pound, and the Norwegian Kroner, and a loss of $9 million on derivative instruments put in place to manage foreign exchange risk related to currency fluctuations. During the nine months ended September 28, 2019, the Company recognized a foreign currency loss of $7 million, primarily related to the Israeli Shekel, Brazilian real, the Australian dollar, and the Canadian dollar, and a loss of $16 million on derivative instruments put in place to minimize the foreign exchange risk related to currency fluctuations.

During the three and nine months ended September 29, 2018, the Company recognized a foreign currency loss of $14 million, primarily driven by the Brazilian real, the Euro, the Australian dollar and the Argentinian peso. During the three and nine months ended September 29, 2018, the Company recognized a gain of $8 million and a loss of $15 million, respectively, on derivative instruments put in place to manage foreign exchange risk related to currency fluctuations. The loss on derivative instruments during the nine months ended September 29, 2018, includes a loss of $14 million on foreign currency derivatives put in place to minimize the exposure to the Canadian dollar related to the acquisition of Avigilon.


Earnings Per Common Share



In the computation of diluted earnings per common share for the three months ended September 28, 2019, the assumed exercise of 19,584 employee stock options were excluded because their inclusion would have been antidilutive. In the computation of the diluted earnings per common share for the nine months ended September 28, 2019, the assumed exercise of 0.3 million employee stock options were excluded because their inclusion would have been antidilutive.

For the three months ended September 29, 2018, the assumed exercise of 0.2 million employee stock options, were excluded because their inclusion would have been antidilutive. For the nine months ended September 29, 2018, the assumed exercise of 3.2 million options, were excluded because their inclusion would have been antidilutive. 

On September 5, 2019, the Company issued $1.0 billion of 1.75% senior convertible notes which mature in September 15, 2024 ("New Senior Convertible Notes"). The notes are convertible based on a conversion rate of 4.9140 per $1,000 principal amount (which is equal to an initial conversion price of $203.50 per share). See discussion in Note 5.

In the event of conversion, the Company intends to settle the principal amount of the New Senior Convertible Notes in cash. Because of the Company’s intention to settle the par value of the New Senior Convertible Notes in cash, Motorola Solutions does not reflect any shares underlying the New Senior Convertible Notes in its diluted weighted average shares outstanding until the average stock price per share for the period exceeds the conversion price. Only the number of shares that would be issuable (under the treasury stock method of accounting for share dilution) will be included, which is based upon the amount by which the average stock price exceeds the conversion price of $203.50. For the period ended September 28, 2019, there was no dilutive effect of the New Senior Convertible Notes on diluted earnings per share attributable to Motorola Solutions, Inc. as the average stock price for the period outstanding was below the conversion price.

Balance Sheet Information

Accounts Receivable, Net




Inventories, Net



Other Current Assets



Property, Plant and Equipment, Net



Depreciation expense for the three months ended September 28, 2019 and September 29, 2018 was $47 million and $43 million, respectively. Depreciation expense for the nine months ended September 28, 2019 and September 29, 2018 was $136 million and $127 million, respectively.

Investments



Strategic investments include investments in non-public technology startup companies. Strategic investments do not have a readily determinable fair value and are recorded at cost, less any impairment, and adjusted for changes resulting from observable, orderly transactions for identical or similar securities. The Company did not recognize any significant adjustments to the recorded cost basis during the nine months ended September 28, 2019, with the exception of one company becoming publicly-traded during the second quarter, which required the investment to be reclassified to common stock.

The Company’s common stock portfolio reflects investments in publicly-traded companies within the communications services sector and is valued utilizing active market prices for similar instruments. During the three and nine months ended 


September 28, 2019, the Company recognized losses of $18 million and $3 million, respectively, in Other income (expense) related to a decrease in the fair value of the investments.

During the three months ended September 28, 2019, the Company recognized no gains or losses on the sale of investments and businesses, compared to gains of $6 million, during the three months ended September 29, 2018. 

 During the nine months ended September 28, 2019, Gains on the sale of investments and businesses, net were $4 million, compared to $16 million, during the nine months ended September 29, 2018. 

 During the three and nine months ended September 28, 2019, the Company recorded investment impairment charges of $5 million and $16 million, respectively, representing other-than-temporary declines in the value of the Company’s strategic investments portfolio. There were no investment impairments recorded during the three and nine months ended September 29, 2018. Investment impairment charges are included in Other within Other income (expense) in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.

Other Assets 



Accrued Liabilities



Other Liabilities



Stockholders’ Equity




Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss




5. Debt and Credit Facilities


As of September 28, 2019, the Company had a $2.2 billion syndicated, unsecured revolving credit facility scheduled to mature in April 2022 (the "2017 Motorola Solutions Credit Agreement"). The 2017 Motorola Solutions Credit Agreement includes a $500 million letter of credit sub-limit with $450 million of fronting commitments. Borrowings under the facility bear interest at the prime rate plus the applicable margin, or at a spread above the London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR"), at the Company's option. An annual facility fee is payable on the undrawn amount of the credit line. The interest rate and facility fee are subject to adjustment if the Company's credit rating changes. The Company must comply with certain customary covenants including a maximum leverage ratio, as defined in the 2017 Motorola Solutions Credit Agreement. The Company was in compliance with its financial covenants as of September 28, 2019. There were no borrowings outstanding or letters of credit issued under the revolving credit facility as of December 31, 2018 and September 28, 2019.

In conjunction with the Avigilon acquisition in the first quarter of 2018, the Company entered into a term loan for $400 million with a maturity date of March 26, 2021 (the “Term Loan”). Interest on the Term Loan is variable, indexed to LIBOR, and paid monthly. The weighted average borrowing rates for amounts outstanding during the three and nine months ended September 28, 2019 were 3.53% and 3.68%, respectively. No additional borrowings are permitted and amounts borrowed and repaid or prepaid may not be re-borrowed. During the three months ended September 28, 2019, the Company repaid all amounts borrowed under the Term Loan. 

In May of 2019, the Company issued $650 million of 4.60% senior notes due 2029, receiving proceeds of $645 million after debt issuance costs and debt discounts. These proceeds were then used to repurchase $614 million in principal amount of its outstanding long-term debt for a purchase price of $654 million, excluding approximately $3 million of accrued interest. After accelerating the amortization of debt issuance costs and debt discounts, the Company recognized a loss of approximately $43 million related to this repurchase in Other within Other income (expense) in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.

In August of 2019, the Company issued a follow-on $150 million to the outstanding 4.60% senior notes due 2029, bringing the total outstanding principal to $800 million. The Company recognized net proceeds of $159 million after debt premiums and debt issuance costs. These proceeds were then used to repurchase the remaining $150 million principal amount outstanding of the 3.5% senior notes due 2021 for a purchase price of $155 million, excluding approximately $2 million of accrued interest. After accelerating the amortization of debt issuance costs and debt discounts, the Company recognized a loss of approximately $7 million related to this repurchase in Other, net within Other income (expense) in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.

On August 25, 2015, the Company entered into an agreement with Silver Lake Partners to issue $1.0 billion of 2.00% senior convertible notes ("Senior Convertible Notes") which were scheduled to mature in September 2020. The notes became fully convertible as of August 25, 2017. The notes were convertible based on a conversion rate adjusted for dividends declared which automatically adjusts the exercise price. During the third quarter of 2018, the Company settled $200 million in principal amount of the Senior Convertible Notes for aggregate consideration of $369 million in cash, inclusive of the conversion premium. 



On September 5, 2019, the Company entered into an agreement with Silver Lake Partners to issue $1.0 billion of 1.75% senior convertible notes which mature in September 2024 ("New Senior Convertible Notes"). Interest on these notes is payable semiannually. The notes are convertible anytime on or after two years from their issuance date, except in certain limited circumstances. The notes are convertible based on a conversion rate of 4.9140 per $1,000 principal amount (which is equal to an initial conversion price of $203.50 per share). In the event of conversion, the Company intends to settle the principal amount of the New Senior Convertible Notes in cash. The Company has recorded a debt liability associated with the New Senior Convertible Notes by determining the fair value of an equivalent debt instrument without a conversion option. Using a discount rate of 2.45%, which was determined based on a review of relevant market data, the Company has calculated the debt liability to be $986 million, indicating a $14 million discount to be amortized over the expected life of the debt instrument. The remaining proceeds of $14 million were allocated to the conversion option and accordingly, increased Additional paid-in capital. 

During the third quarter of 2019, the Company established an unsecured commercial paper program, backed by the revolving credit facility, under which the Company may issue unsecured commercial paper notes up to a maximum aggregate principal amount of $2.2 billion outstanding at any one time. Proceeds from the issuances of the notes are expected to be used for general corporate purposes. The notes are issued at a zero-coupon rate and are issued at a discount which reflects the interest component. At maturity, the notes are paid back in full including the interest component. The notes are not redeemable prior to maturity. As of September 28, 2019 the Company had no outstanding debt under the commercial paper program. Subsequent to the end of the quarter, the Company issued $265 million commercial paper under the program. 


Foreign Currency Risk

As of September 28, 2019, the Company had outstanding foreign exchange contracts with notional amounts totaling $1.1 billion, compared to $819 million outstanding at December 31, 2018. The Company does not believe these financial instruments should subject it to undue risk due to foreign exchange movements because gains and losses on these contracts should generally offset gains and losses on the underlying assets, liabilities and transactions.



Counterparty Risk

The use of derivative financial instruments exposes the Company to counterparty credit risk in the event of non-performance by counterparties. However, the Company’s risk is limited to the fair value of the instruments when the derivative is in an asset position. The Company actively monitors its exposure to credit risk. As of September 28, 2019, all of the counterparties have investment grade credit ratings. As of September 28, 2019, the Company had $17 million of exposure to aggregate credit risk with all counterparties.







Net Investment Hedges

The Company uses foreign exchange forward contracts with contract terms of 12 to 15 months to hedge against the effect of the British pound and the Euro exchange rate fluctuations against the U.S. dollar on a portion of its net investment in certain European operations. The Company recognizes changes in the fair value of the net investment hedges as a component of foreign currency translation adjustments within other comprehensive income to offset a portion of the change in translated value of the net investment being hedged, until the investment is sold or liquidated. The Company has elected to exclude the difference between the spot rate and the forward rate of the forward contract from its assessment of hedge effectiveness. The effect of the excluded components will be amortized on a straight line basis and recognized through interest expense. As of September 28, 2019, the Company had €95 million of net investment hedges in certain Euro functional subsidiaries and £100 million of net investment hedges in certain British pound functional subsidiaries. During the three and nine months ended September 28, 2019, the Company amortized $2 million and $5 million, respectively, of income from the excluded components through interest expense.


At the end of each interim reporting period, the Company makes an estimate of its annual effective income tax rate. Tax expense in interim periods is calculated at the estimated annual effective tax rate plus or minus the tax effects of items of income and expense that are discrete to the period. The estimate used in providing for income taxes on a year-to-date basis may change in subsequent interim periods.




During the three and nine months ended September 28, 2019, the Company recorded $80 million and $180 million of net tax expense, resulting in effective tax rates of 23% and 22%, respectively. During the three and nine months ended September 29, 2018, the Company recorded $22 million and $91 million of net tax expense, resulting in effective tax rates of 8% and 14%, respectively. The three and nine months ended September 28, 2019 effective tax rates include state tax expense, offset by excess tax benefits on share-based compensation. The effective tax rates for the three and nine months ended September 28, 2019 of 23% and 22%, respectively, are higher than the effective tax rates for the three and nine months ended September 29, 2018 of 8% and 14%, respectively, primarily due to a favorable settlement of a state audit and favorable U.S. return-to-provision adjustments related to significant tax legislation, both of which were recorded in 2018. 

8. Retirement and Other Employee Benefits

Pension and Postretirement Health Care Benefits Plans 





9. Share-Based Compensation Plans





10. Fair Value Measurements


Level 1 — Quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets.

Level 2 — Quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active, and model-derived valuations, in which all significant inputs are observable, in active markets. 

Level 3 — Valuations derived from valuation techniques, in which one or more significant inputs are unobservable.





The Company had no Level 3 holdings as of September 28, 2019 or December 31, 2018.

At September 28, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the Company had $534 million and $734 million, respectively, of investments in money market prime and government funds classified (Level 1) as Cash and cash equivalents in its Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. The money market funds had quoted market prices that are equivalent to par.

Using quoted market prices and market interest rates, the Company determined that the fair value of long-term debt at September 28, 2019 and December 31, 2018 was $6.0 billion and $5.4 billion (Level 2), respectively. 

All other financial instruments are carried at cost, which is not materially different from the instruments’ fair values.

11. Sales of Receivables

Sales of Receivables



At September 28, 2019, the Company had retained servicing obligations for $969 million of long-term receivables, compared to $970 million at December 31, 2018. Servicing obligations are limited to collection activities related to the sales of accounts receivables and long-term receivables. The Company had outstanding commitments to provide long-term financing to third parties totaling $98 million at September 28, 2019, compared to $62 million at December 31, 2018. 


12. Commitments and Contingencies

Legal Matters

The Company is a defendant in various lawsuits, claims, and actions, which arise in the normal course of business. In the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's condensed consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations. However, an unfavorable resolution could have a material adverse effect on the Company's condensed consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations in the periods in which the matters are ultimately resolved, or in the periods in which more information is obtained that changes management's opinion of the ultimate disposition.

Other Indemnifications

The Company is a party to a variety of agreements pursuant to which it is obligated to indemnify the other party with respect to certain matters. In indemnification cases, payment by the Company is conditioned on the other party making a claim pursuant to the procedures specified in the particular contract, which procedures typically allow the Company to challenge the other party's claims. In some instances, the Company may have recourse against third parties for certain payments made by the Company.

In addition, the Company may provide indemnifications for losses that result from the breach of general warranties contained in certain commercial and intellectual property agreements. Historically, the Company has not made significant payments under these agreements.






14. Reorganization of Business


During the three months ended September 28, 2019, the Company recorded net reorganization of business charges of $18 million including $15 million of charges in Other charges and $3 million of charges in Costs of sales in the Company's Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. Included in the $18 million were charges of $19 million related to employee separation, partially offset by $1 million of reversals for accruals no longer needed.

During the nine months ended September 28, 2019, the Company recorded net reorganization of business charges of $37 million including $27 million of charges in Other charges and $10 million of charges in Costs of sales in the Company's Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. Included in the $37 million were charges of $48 million related to employee separation, partially offset by $11 million of reversals for accruals no longer needed.






Employee Separation Costs

At January 1, 2019, the Company had an accrual of $84 million for employee separation costs. The 2019 additional charges of $48 million represent severance costs for approximately 600 employees. The adjustment of $11 million reflects reversals for accruals no longer needed. The $44 million used reflects cash payments to severed employees. The remaining accrual of $77 million, which is included in Accrued liabilities in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at September 28, 2019, is expected to be paid, primarily within one year, to approximately 900 employees, who have either been severed or have been notified of their severance and have begun or will begin receiving payments.

As of January 1, 2019, accruals for exit costs are included in Operating lease liabilities with an offsetting impairment to the Company's ROU assets; all within its Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (see Note 3).


During the three months ended September 29, 2018, the Company recorded net reorganization of business charges of $25 million including $21 million of charges in Other charges and $4 million of charges in Costs of sales in the Company's Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. Included in the $25 million were charges of $13 million related to employee separation costs and $12 million related to exit costs.

During the nine months ended September 29, 2018, the Company recorded net reorganization of business charges of $62 million including $46 million of charges in Other charges and $16 million of charges in Costs of sales in the Company's Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. Included in the $62 million were charges of $61 million related to employee separation costs and $16 million related to exit costs, partially offset by $15 million of reversals for accruals no longer needed.



15. Intangible Assets and Goodwill

The Company accounts for acquisitions using purchase accounting with the results of operations for each acquiree included in the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements for the period subsequent to the date of acquisition.

Recent Acquisitions

On July 11, 2019, the Company acquired WatchGuard, Inc. ("WatchGuard"), a provider of in-car and body-worn video solutions for $271 million, inclusive of share-based compensation withheld at a fair value of $16 million that will be expensed over an average service period of two years. The acquisition was settled with $250 million, net of cash acquired. The acquisition expands the Company's video security solutions platform. The business will be part of both the Products and Systems Integration and Services and Software segments. The Company recognized $157 million of goodwill, $63 million of identifiable intangible assets, and $30 million of net assets. The goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes. The identifiable intangible assets were classified as $33 million of customer relationships and $30 million of completed technology that will be amortized over a period of thirteen years and seven years, respectively. The purchase accounting is not yet complete and as such the final allocation between goodwill and net assets may be subject to change based on the finalization of working capital considerations.


On March 11, 2019, the Company announced that it acquired Avtec, Inc. ("Avtec"), a provider of dispatch communication equipment for U.S. public safety and commercial customers for a purchase price of $136 million in cash, net of cash acquired. This acquisition expands the Company's commercial portfolio with new capabilities, allowing it to offer an enhanced platform for customers to communicate, coordinate resources, and secure their facilities. The business will be part of both the Products and Systems Integration and Services and Software segments. The Company recognized $68 million of goodwill, $64 million of identifiable intangible assets, and $4 million of net assets. The goodwill is deductible for tax purposes. The identifiable intangible assets were classified as $43 million of completed technology and $21 million of customer relationship intangibles and will be amortized over a period of 15 years. The purchase accounting has been completed as of the third quarter of 2019.

On January 7, 2019, the Company announced that it acquired VaaS International Holdings ("VaaS"), a company that is a global provider of data and image analytics for vehicle location for $445 million, inclusive of share-based compensation withheld at a fair value of $38 million that will be expensed over an average service period of one year. The acquisition was settled with $231 million of cash, net of cash acquired, and 1.4 million of shares issued at a fair value of $160 million for a purchase price of $391 million to be utilized in the purchase price allocation. The business will be part of both the Products and Systems Integration and Services and Software segments. The Company recognized $261 million of goodwill, $141 million of identifiable intangible assets, and $11 million of net liabilities. The goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes. The identifiable intangible assets were classified as $99 million of completed technology that will be amortized over a period of ten years and $42 million of customer relationship intangibles that will be amortized over a period of 15 years. The purchase accounting is not yet complete and as such the final allocation between deferred income tax accounts and goodwill may be subject to change.

 On March 28, 2018, the Company completed the acquisition of Avigilon Corporation, a provider of advanced security and video solutions including video analytics, network video management hardware and software, video cameras and access control solutions. The purchase price of $974 million, consisted of cash payments of $980 million for outstanding common stock, restricted stock units and employee held stock options, net of cash acquired of $107 million, debt assumed of $75 million and transaction costs of $26 million. Prior to the end of the first quarter of 2018, $35 million of the assumed debt was repaid with the remaining $40 million repaid during the second quarter of 2018. The Company recognized $498 million of identifiable intangible assets, $434 million of goodwill, and $42 million of net assets. Acquired intangible assets consist of $110 million of customer relationships, $380 million of developed technology and $8 million of trade names and will have useful lives of two to twenty years. The fair values of all intangible assets were estimated using the income approach. Customer relationships and developed technology were valued under the excess earnings method which assumes that the value of an intangible asset is equal to the present value of the incremental after-tax cash flows attributable specifically to the intangible asset. Trade names were valued under the relief from royalty method, which assumes value to the extent that the acquired company is relieved of the obligation to pay royalties for the benefits received from them. Goodwill was calculated as the excess of the consideration transferred over the net assets recognized and represents the future economic benefits arising from the other assets acquired that could not be individually identified and separately recognized. The goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes.

On March 7, 2018, the Company completed the acquisition of Plant Holdings, Inc., the parent company of Airbus DS Communications for a purchase price of $237 million in cash, net cash acquired. This acquisition expanded the Company's software portfolio in the command center with additional solutions for Next Generation 9-1-1. The Company recognized $160 million of goodwill, $80 million of identifiable intangible assets, and $3 million of net liabilities. The goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes. The identifiable intangible assets were classified as $41 million of customer-related intangibles, $27 million of completed technology and $12 million of trade names. The identifiable intangible assets will be amortized over a period of ten to twenty years.

The pro forma effects of these acquisitions are not significant.

Any sales from devices from these acquisitions are included within the Products and Systems Integration segment whereas sales from services and software offerings from these acquisitions are included in the Services and Software segment. 

Intangible Assets



Amortization expense on intangible assets was $52 million for the three months ended September 28, 2019 and $154 million for the nine months ended September 28, 2019. Amortization expense on intangible assets was $46 million for the three months ended September 29, 2018 and $140 million for the nine months ended September 29, 2018. As of September 28, 2019, annual amortization expense is estimated to be $206 million in 2019, $203 million 2020, $201 million in 2021, $198 million in 2022, $104 million in 2023, and $80 million in 2024.




Goodwill




Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

This commentary should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto of Motorola Solutions, Inc. (“Motorola Solutions” or the “Company,” “we,” “our,” or “us”) for the three and nine months ended September 28, 2019 and September 29, 2018, as well as our consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto and management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.

Executive Overview


Recent Acquisitions and Developments 

On September 5, 2019, we extended our strategic partnership with Silver Lake with new $1.0 billion 1.75% senior convertible notes. In exchange, we settled the outstanding $800 million 2.00% senior convertible notes with the issuance of 5.5 million shares and $1.1 billion in cash, of which, $600 million was paid subsequent to quarter end.

On July 11, 2019, we acquired WatchGuard, Inc. ("WatchGuard"), a provider of in-car and body-worn video solutions for $271 million, inclusive of share-based compensation withheld at a fair value of $16 million that will be expensed over an average service period of two years. The acquisition was settled with $250 million of cash, net of cash acquired. The acquisition expands our video security solutions platform.

On March 11, 2019, we announced that we acquired Avtec, Inc. ("Avtec"), a provider of dispatch communication equipment for U.S. public safety and commercial customers for a purchase price of $136 million in cash, net of cash acquired. This acquisition expands our commercial portfolio with new capabilities, allowing us to offer an enhanced platform for customers to communicate, coordinate resources, and secure their facilities. 

On January 7, 2019, we announced that we acquired VaaS International Holdings ("VaaS"), a company that is a global provider of data and image analytics for vehicle location for $445 million, inclusive of share-based compensation withheld at a fair value of $38 million that will be expensed over an average service period of one year. The acquisition was settled with $231 million of cash, net of cash acquired, and 1.4 million of shares issued at a fair value of $160 million for a purchase price of $391 million.

We reached an agreement with the U.K. Home Office during the third quarter of 2018 on terms for the new direction of the U.K. Emergency Services Network (“ESN”). During the second quarter of 2019, we finalized an extension, through 2024, of $200 million for the ESN contract.

On March 28, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Avigilon Corporation ("Avigilon"), a provider of advanced security and video solutions including video analytics, network video management hardware and software, video cameras and access control solutions for a purchase price of $974 million in cash, net of cash acquired, debt assumed, and transaction costs paid.

On March 7, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Plant Holdings, Inc. ("Plant"), the parent company of Airbus DS Communications for a purchase price of $237 million in cash, net of cash acquired. This acquisition expanded our software portfolio in the command center with additional solutions for Next Generation 9-1-1.

Segment Financial Highlights



$155 million in the third quarter of 2019, compared to $111 million in the third quarter of 2018. Operating margin increased in 2019 to 24.0% from 19.3% in 2018 driven by higher sales, gross margin, and a $17 million environmental reserve expense that was recorded in the third quarter of 2018, partially offset by higher operating expenses related to acquisitions.


Results of Operations




Results of Operations—Three months ended September 28, 2019 compared to three months ended September 29, 2018 

The results of operations for the third quarter of 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the operating results to be expected for the full year. Historically, we have experienced higher revenues in the fourth quarter as compared to the rest of the quarters of our fiscal year as a result of the purchasing patterns of our customers.

Net Sales


The Products and Systems Integration segment’s net sales represented 68% of our consolidated net sales in the third quarter of 2019 and 69% in the third quarter of 2018. The Services and Software segment’s net sales represented 32% of our consolidated net sales in the third quarter of 2019 and 31% in the third quarter of 2018.


•growth in Devices primarily due to strong demand in the Americas, inclusive of acquisitions;

•$58 million of revenue from the acquisitions of VaaS, WatchGuard, and Avtec; and

•partially offset by $21 million from unfavorable currency rates.


•growth in the Americas region of 12% driven by growth in both segments, inclusive of revenue from acquisitions; 

•a decline in the AP region of 9% driven primarily by China and currency headwinds; and

•a decline in the EMEA region of 1% primarily due to large system deployments in the Middle East in the third quarter of 2018 and currency headwinds, partially offset by growth within Europe.

Products and Systems Integration


•$27 million of revenue from the acquisitions of WatchGuard, VaaS and Avtec; 


Services and Software


•$31 million of revenue from the acquisitions of VaaS, WatchGuard, and Avtec; 

•39% growth in Software, driven primarily by growth in our video security solutions portfolio and command center software sales, inclusive of acquisitions; and

•5% growth in Services, driven by growth in software and hardware maintenance revenue as well as managed services revenue, inclusive of acquisitions, and partially offset by currency headwinds.


Gross Margin 



•higher margins in Products and Systems Integration driven by a favorable mix of Devices to Systems and Systems Integration, as well as higher margin contribution from acquisitions; and

•higher margins within Services and Software primarily driven by higher margin contribution within our Software portfolio, inclusive of acquisitions.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses



Research and Development Expenditures



Other Charges


The reduction of Other charges in the third quarter of 2019 as compared to the third quarter of 2018 is primarily due to a $57 million environmental reserve expense that was recorded in the third quarter of 2018 and $15 million of net reorganization of business charges in the third quarter of 2019 as compared to $21 million in the third quarter of 2018 (see further detail in “Reorganization of Businesses” section).

Operating Earnings





Interest Expense, net


The decrease in net interest expense in the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018 was a result of less average debt outstanding as of and for the period ending September 28, 2019 and higher cash balances generating more interest income as compared to the period ending September 29, 2018.

Gains on Sales of Investments and Businesses, net


The net gain of $6 million in the third quarter of 2018 was primarily related to the sale of one strategic investment.

Other, net



Effective Tax Rate


Income tax expense increased by $58 million compared to the third quarter of 2018, for an effective tax rate of 23%. Our effective tax rate for the three months ended September 28, 2019 of 23% is higher than the effective tax rate for the three months ended September 29, 2018 of 8%, primarily due to favorable US return-to-provision adjustments related to significant tax legislation recorded in 2018. 


Results of Operations—Nine months ended September 28, 2019 compared to nine months ended September 29, 2018 

Net Sales


The Products and Systems Integration segment’s net sales represented 66% of our consolidated net sales in the first nine months of 2019 and 67% in the first nine months of 2018. The Services and Software segment’s net sales represented 34% of our consolidated net sales in the first nine months of 2019 and 33% in the first nine months of 2018.


•growth in Devices due to strong demand across all regions inclusive of acquisitions; and

•partially offset by $96 million from unfavorable currency rates.


•growth in the Americas region of 13% across both segments, inclusive of acquisitions; 

•a decline in the AP region of 7% driven primarily by China and currency headwinds; and

•a decline in the EMEA region of 1% primarily due to currency headwinds and large system deployments in the Middle East completed in 2018, currency headwinds and partially offset by growth within Europe.

Products and Systems Integration


•$120 million of revenue from acquisitions;

•9% growth in Devices revenue primarily due to strong demand for LMR and video devices across all regions, inclusive of acquisitions; and

•partially offset by large system deployments in the Middle East completed in 2018.

Services and Software


•$107 million of revenue from acquisitions;

•50% growth in Software, driven primarily by revenue from our video security solutions portfolio and growth in our command center software sales, inclusive of acquisitions; and

•3% growth in Services, driven by growth in software and hardware maintenance revenue as well as managed services revenue, inclusive of acquisitions, partially offset by unfavorable currency headwinds.

Gross Margin 



•higher margins in Products and Systems Integration driven by a favorable mix of Devices to Systems and Systems Integration, as well as higher margin contribution from acquisitions; and

•higher margins within Services and Software primarily driven by higher margin contribution within our Software portfolio from acquisitions and operational efficiencies in service delivery costs of our Services portfolio.


Selling, General and Administrative Expenses



Research and Development Expenditures



Other Charges



Operating Earnings




Interest Expense, net


The increase in net interest expense in the first nine months of 2019 compared to the first nine months of 2018 was a result of more average debt outstanding as of and for the period ending September 28, 2019 as compared to the period ending September 29, 2018.

Gains on Sales of Investments and Businesses, net


Net gains on sales of investments and businesses were $4 million in the first nine months of 2019 compared to $16 million during the first nine months of 2018. The net gains in the first nine months of 2019 were related to the sale of our two-way communications rental business and various equity method investments. The net gains in the first nine months of 2018 were primarily related to the sale of two investments. 

Other, net



Effective Tax Rate


Income tax expense increased by $89 million compared to the first nine months of 2018, for an effective tax rate of 22%. Our effective tax rate for the nine months ended September 28, 2019 of 22% is higher than the effective tax rate for the nine months ended September 29, 2018 of 14%, primarily due to a primarily due to a favorable settlement of a state audit and favorable U.S. return-to-provision adjustments related to significant tax legislation, both of which were recorded in 2018.


Reorganization of Business

During the third quarter of 2019, we recorded net reorganization of business charges of $18 million including $15 million of charges recorded within Other charges and $3 million in Costs of sales in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. Included in the $18 million were charges of $19 million related to employee separation costs, partially offset by $1 million of reversals for accruals no longer needed.

During the first nine months of 2019, we recorded net reorganization of business charges of $37 million including $27 million of charges in Other charges and $10 million of charges in Costs of sales in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. Included in the $37 million were charges of $48 million related to employee separation, partially offset by $11 million of reversals for accruals no longer needed.

During the third quarter of 2018, we recorded net reorganization of business charges of $25 million including $21 million of charges in Other charges and $4 million of charges in Costs of sales in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. Included in the $25 million were charges of $13 million related to employee separation costs and $12 million related to exit costs.

During the first nine months of 2018, we recorded net reorganization of business charges of $62 million including $46 million of charges recorded within Other charges and $16 million of charges in Costs of sales in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. Included in the $62 million were charges of $61 million related to employee separation costs and $16 million related to exit costs, partially offset by $15 million of reversals for accruals no longer needed.



Cash payments for employee severance in connection with the reorganization of business plans were $44 million in the first nine months of 2019 and employee severance costs were $48 million in the first nine months of 2018. The reorganization of business accrual at September 28, 2019 was $77 million, of which relate to employee separation costs that are expected to be paid within one year.

As of January 1, 2019, accruals for exit costs are included in Operating lease liabilities with an offsetting impairment to our right-of use assets ("ROU"), all within our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (see Note 3 of our condensed consolidated financial statements).

Liquidity and Capital Resources


Cash and Cash Equivalents

At September 28, 2019, $744 million of the $1.1 billion cash and cash equivalents balance was held in the U.S. and $396 million was held in other countries, with $74 million held in the United Kingdom. 

Operating Activities



•a $51 million payment out of restricted cash related to a settlement arising from a legacy business in 2018; 



Investing Activities


Financing Activities


•a $1.0 billion increase in the repayment of debt; 

•a $157 million increase in the settlement of the conversion premium on the 2.00% senior convertible notes;


•partially offset by a $509 million increase in debt issuance.

Sales of Receivables



The proceeds of our receivable sales are included in "Operating activities" within our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.

Debt

We had outstanding long-term debt of $5.7 billion and $5.3 billion, including the current portions of $617 million and $31 million at September 28, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively. 

In February of 2018, we issued $500 million of 4.60% Senior notes due 2028. After debt issuance costs and debt discounts, we recognized net proceeds of $497 million. These proceeds were then used to make a $500 million contribution to our U.S. pension plan in the first quarter of 2018. During the second half of 2018, we issued an additional $200 million on the outstanding 4.6% senior notes bringing the total outstanding principal to $700 million. We recognized net proceeds of $196 million after debt issuance costs and debt discounts, which was then used to pay the $200 million principal due to Silver Lake Partners on October 15, 2018.

To complete the acquisition of Avigilon during the quarter ended March 31, 2018, we entered into a term loan for $400 million with a maturity date of March 26, 2021 (the "Term Loan"). The interest on the Term Loan was variable, indexed to the London Inter-bank Offered Rate ("LIBOR"), and paid monthly. The weighted average borrowing rate for amounts outstanding during the three and nine months ended September 28, 2019 was 3.53% and 3.68%, respectively. During the three months ended September 28, 2019, we repaid all amounts borrowed under the Term Loan. 

In May of 2019, we issued $650 million of 4.60% Senior notes due 2029. We received proceeds of $645 million after debt issuance costs and debt discounts. These proceeds were then used to repurchase $614 million in principal amount of our 


outstanding long-term debt for a purchase price of $654 million, excluding approximately $3 million of accrued interest. After accelerating the amortization of debt issuance costs and debt discounts, we recognized a loss of approximately $43 million related to this repurchase in Other within Other income (expense) in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. 

In August of 2019, we issued a follow-on $150 million to the outstanding 4.60% senior notes due 2029 bringing the outstanding total to $800 million. We recognized net proceeds of $159 million after debt premiums and debt issuance costs. These proceeds were then used to repurchase the remaining $150 million principal amount of the 3.5% senior notes due 2021 for a purchase price of $155 million, excluding approximately $2 million of accrued interest. After accelerating the amortization of debt issuance costs, we recognized a loss of approximately $7 million related to this repurchase in Other, net within Other income (expense) in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.

In 2015, we entered into an agreement with Silver Lake Partners to issue $1.0 billion of 2.00% senior convertible notes which mature in September 2020 ("Senior Convertible Notes"). The notes became fully convertible as of August 25, 2017. The notes were convertible based on a conversion rate that may be adjusted for dividends declared and automatically adjusts the exercise price. During the third quarter of 2018, we repurchased $200 million in principal amount of the Senior Convertible Notes for aggregate consideration of $369 million in cash, inclusive of the conversion premium. 


On September 5, 2019, we entered into an agreement with Silver Lake Partners to issue $1.0 billion of 1.75% senior convertible notes which mature in September 2024 ("New Senior Convertible Notes"). Interest on these notes is payable semiannually. The notes are convertible anytime on or after two years from their issuance date, except in certain limited circumstances. The notes are convertible based on a conversion rate of 4.9140 per $1,000 principal amount (which is equal to an initial conversion price of $203.50 per share). In the event of conversion, we intend to settle the principal amount of the New Senior Convertible Notes in cash. We recorded a debt liability associated with the New Senior Convertible Notes by determining the fair value of an equivalent debt instrument without a conversion option. Using a discount rate of 2.45%, which was determined based on a review of relevant market data, we calculated the debt liability to be $986 million, indicating a $14 million discount to be amortized over the expected life of the debt instrument. The remaining proceeds of $14 million were allocated to the conversion option and accordingly, increased Additional paid-in capital. 

During the third quarter of 2019, we established an unsecured commercial paper program, backed by the revolving credit facility, under which we may issue unsecured commercial paper notes up to a maximum aggregate principal amount of $2.2 billion outstanding at any one time. Proceeds from the issuances of the notes are expected to be used for general corporate purposes. As of September 28, 2019 we had no outstanding debt under the commercial paper program. Subsequent to the end of the quarter, the Company issued $265 million commercial paper under the program.

We continue to believe that we hold sufficient liquidity to cover the day-to-day operations of our business as well as any future volatility or uncertainty that may arise in the capital markets.

Credit Facilities

As of September 28, 2019, we had a $2.2 billion syndicated, unsecured revolving credit facility scheduled to mature in April 2022 (the "2017 Motorola Solutions Credit Agreement"). The 2017 Motorola Solutions Credit Agreement includes a $500 million letter of credit sub-limit with $450 million of fronting commitments. Borrowings under the facility bear interest at the prime rate plus the applicable margin, or at a spread above LIBOR, at our option. An annual facility fee is payable on the undrawn amount of the credit line. The interest rate and facility fee are subject to adjustment if our credit rating changes. We must comply with certain customary covenants including a maximum leverage ratio, as defined in the 2017 Motorola Solutions Credit Agreement. We were in compliance with our financial covenants as of September 28, 2019. During the first quarter of 2018, we borrowed $400 million to facilitate the Avigilon acquisition, which was subsequently paid during the fourth quarter of 2018. There were no borrowings outstanding or letters of credit issued under the revolving credit facility as of September 28, 2019.

Share Repurchase Program

During the nine months ended September 28, 2019, we paid an aggregate of $170 million, including transaction costs, to repurchase approximately 1.4 million shares at an average price of $122.31 per share. As of September 28, 2019, the Company had used approximately $12.6 billion of the share repurchase authority to repurchase shares, leaving $1.4 billion of authority available for future repurchases.


Dividends

During the third quarter of 2019, we paid $94 million in cash dividends to holders of our common stock. During the first nine months of 2019, we paid $281 million in cash dividends to holders of our common stock. Subsequent to quarter end, we paid an additional $98 million in cash dividends to holders of our common stock. 

Long-Term Customer Financing Commitments

We had outstanding commitments to provide long-term financing to third parties totaling $98 million at September 28, 2019, compared to $62 million at December 31, 2018. 

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-14, “Compensation - Retirement Benefits - Defined Benefit Plans - General (Subtopic 715-20) - Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Defined Benefit Plans,” which modifies the disclosure requirements for the defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement plans. The ASU is effective for us on January 1, 2021 with early adoption permitted. The ASU requires a retrospective adoption method. We do not believe the ASU will have a material impact on our financial statement disclosures.


Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements

In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2016-02, "Leases," which amends existing guidance to require lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by long-term leases and to disclose additional quantitative and qualitative information about leasing arrangements. This was subsequently amended by ASU No. 2018-01, “Land Easement Practical Expedient for Transition to Topic 842,” ASU No. 2018-10, “Codification Improvements to Topic 842, Leases,” and ASU No. 2018-11, “Targeted Improvements” (collectively "ASC 842"). ASC 842 establishes a right-of-use model ("ROU") that requires a lessee to recognize a ROU asset and lease liability on the balance sheet for all leases with an initial term longer than twelve months. Leases will be classified as finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern and presentation of expense recognition in the income statement.

We adopted ASC 842 as of January 1, 2019 using a modified retrospective transition approach for all leases existing at January 1, 2019, the date of the initial application. Consequently, financial information will not be updated and disclosures required under ASC 842 will not be provided for dates and periods before January 1, 2019.

ASC 842 provides for a number of optional practical expedients in transition. We elected the practical expedients, which permit us to not reassess prior conclusions about lease identification, lease classification and initial direct costs under ASC 842. We did not elect the "use-of hindsight" practical expedient to determine the lease term or in assessing the likelihood that a lease purchase option will be exercised, allowing us to carry forward the lease term as determined prior to adoption of ASC 842. Finally, we also elected the practical expedient related to land easements, which enabled us to continue our accounting treatment for land easements on existing agreements as of January 1, 2019.

ASC 842 also provides practical expedients for an entity’s ongoing accounting. We elected the short-term lease recognition exemption for all leases that qualify. A short-term lease is one with a term of 12 months or less, including any optional periods that are reasonably certain of exercise. For those leases that qualify, the exemption allows us to not recognize ROU assets or lease liabilities, including not recognizing ROU assets or lease liabilities for existing short-term leases at transition. Short-term lease costs are recognized as rent expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term consistent with our prior accounting. We also elected the practical expedient to not separate lease and non-lease components for all current lease categories. 

As of January 1, 2019, we recognized operating lease liabilities of $648 million based on the present value of the remaining minimum rental payments determined under prior lease accounting standards and corresponding ROU assets of $588 million. The $60 million difference between operating lease liabilities and ROU assets recognized is due to deferred rent and exit cost accruals recorded under prior lease accounting standards. ASC 842 requires such balances to be reclassified against ROU assets at transition.



accounting under the practical expedient depends on which component(s) is predominant in the contract. If the non-lease component is predominant, the single component is accounted under ASC Topic 606 "Revenue from Contracts with Customers" and accounting and disclosure under ASC 842 is not applicable. We have elected the above practical expedient and determined that non-lease components are predominant and is accounting for the single components as managed service contracts under ASC Topic 606.


Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Derivative Financial Instruments

As of September 28, 2019, we had outstanding foreign exchange contracts with notional amounts totaling $1.1 billion, compared to $819 million outstanding as of December 31, 2018. Management believes that these financial instruments should not subject us to undue risk due to foreign exchange movements because gains and losses on these contracts should generally offset gains and losses on the underlying assets, liabilities and transactions.



Forward-Looking Statements

Except for historical matters, the matters discussed in this Form 10-Q are forward-looking statements within the meaning of applicable federal securities law. These statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and generally include words such as “believes,” “expects,” “intends,” “aims,” “estimates” and similar expressions. We can give no assurance that any future results or events discussed in these statements will be achieved. Any forward-looking statements represent our views only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date. Readers are cautioned that such forward-looking statements are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the statements contained in this Form 10-Q. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements included in: (1) “Management's Discussion and Analysis,” about: (a) the impact of global economic and political conditions, (b) the impact of acquisitions on our business, (c) our business strategies and expected results, (d) future payments, charges, use of accruals and expected cost-saving benefits associated with our productivity improvement plans, reorganization of business programs, and employee separation costs, (e) our ability and cost to repatriate funds, (f) our ability to settle the principal amount of the New Senior Convertible Notes in cash, (g) our ability and cost to access the capital markets at our current ratings, (h) our ability to borrow and the amount available under our credit facilities, (i) the return of capital to shareholders through dividends and/or repurchasing shares, (j) the adequacy of our cash balances to meet current operating requirements, and (k) the outcome and effect of ongoing and future legal proceedings, (2) The impact of new FASB Accounting Standards Updates on our financial statements, (3) “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk,” about the impact of foreign currency exchange risks, (4) “Legal Proceedings,” about the ultimate disposition of pending legal matters. Motorola Solutions undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement or risk factor, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 

Some of the risk factors that affect our business and financial results are discussed within this document, in Part I, “Item 1A: Risk Factors” on pages 9 through 21 of our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other SEC filings available for free on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov and on Motorola Solutions' website at www.motorolasolutions.com. We wish to caution the reader that the risk factors discussed in each of these documents and those described in our other Securities and Exchange Commission filings, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those stated in the forward-looking statements.


Item 4. Controls and Procedures




Part II—Other Information

Item 1. Legal Proceedings

The Company is a defendant in various lawsuits, claims, and actions, which arise in the normal course of business. In the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's condensed consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations. However, an unfavorable resolution could have a material adverse effect on the Company's condensed consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations in the periods in which the matters are ultimately resolved, or in the periods in which more information is obtained that changes management's opinion of the ultimate disposition.

Item 1A. Risk Factors

The accounting for convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash or in shares of common stock could have a material effect on our reported financial results. 

Under U.S. GAAP, an entity must separately account for the debt component and the embedded conversion option of convertible debt instruments that may be settled entirely or partially in cash or in shares of common stock upon conversion, such as our New Senior Convertible Notes, in a manner that reflects the issuer’s effective interest cost. The fair value of the embedded conversion option is classified as an addition to stockholder’s equity. The difference between book carrying cost and face value of the debt represents a non-cash discount. This difference will be amortized into interest expense over the estimated life of the New Senior Convertible Notes using the effective yield method. As a result, we will be required to record a greater amount of non-cash interest expense as a result of the amortization of the discount over the term of the New Senior Convertible Notes. Accordingly, we will report lower net income because of the recognition of both the current period’s discount amortization and the New Senior Convertible Notes’ coupon interest, which could adversely affect the trading price of our shares of common stock and the trading price (if any) of the New Senior Convertible Notes. 

Under certain circumstances, convertible debt instruments (such as the New Senior Convertible Notes) that may be settled entirely or partially in cash are evaluated for their impact on earnings per share utilizing the treasury stock method, the effect of which is that the shares issuable upon conversion of the New Senior Convertible Notes are not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share except to the extent that the conversion value of the New Senior Convertible Notes exceeds their principal amount. Under the treasury stock method the number of shares outstanding for purposes of calculating diluted earnings per share includes the number of shares that would be required to settle the excess of the conversion value of the New Senior Convertible Notes, if any, over the principal amounts of the New Senior Convertible Notes (which would be settled in cash). The conversion value of the New Senior Convertible Notes will exceed the principal amount of the notes to the extent the trading price of a share of our stock exceeds $203.50. We intend to settle the principal amount of the convertible notes in cash. However, we may not have access to the capital markets for financing on acceptable terms and conditions, particularly if our credit ratings are downgraded. Accordingly, we may be forced to fully settle the New Senior Convertible Notes in shares of common stock upon conversion, the effect of which would cause the dilutive impact to earnings per share to be significantly in excess of the dilutive impact reflected by the treasury stock method.

In addition to the risk factor above, the reader should carefully consider, in connection with the other information in this report, the factors discussed in Part I, “Item 1A: Risk Factors” on pages 9 through 21 of the Company’s 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K. These factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those stated in forward-looking statements contained in this document and elsewhere.


Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds

On January 3, 2019, as partial consideration for the acquisition of VaaS International Holdings ("VaaS"), a company that is a global provider of data and image analytics for vehicle location, we issued 1,802,379 shares of common stock the Company at a fair value of $198 million, inclusive of $38 million related to compensation withheld from the purchase that will be expensed over an average service period of one year, to certain of the former owners of VaaS. These shares were issued in reliance upon the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, in a privately negotiated transaction not involving any public offering or solicitation. 

On July 11, 2019 the Company issued 80,702 shares of restricted stock in connection with the acquisition of WatchGuard, Inc., a company that is a U.S. leader in mobile video solutions. The restricted stock was issued for an aggregate grant-date fair value of $14 million that will be expensed over an average service period of two years. These shares were issued in reliance upon the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, in a privately negotiated transaction not involving any public offering or solicitation. 

As disclosed on a Form 8-K previously filed, on September 5, 2019, the Company entered into an investment agreement, pursuant to which it issued $1.0 billion in the New Senior Convertible Notes in a private placement pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The sale was completed in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act. The Company relied on such exemption from registration based in part on representations made by the investment agreement with Silver Lake Partners.

On September 5, 2019, in connection with the agreement with Silver Lake Partners to settle a portion of the principal amount of the Senior Convertible Notes, the Company issued 5,471,271 million shares of common stock. These shares were issued in reliance upon the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, in a privately negotiated transaction not involving any public offering of solicitation. Subsequently, the shares were registered for resale by the selling securityholders pursuant to a registration statement filed on September 6, 2019. The selling securityholders will receive all of the proceeds from the sale or other disposition of the shares of common stock. The Company will not receive any of the proceeds from the sale or other disposition of the shares of common stock.

The following table provides information with respect to acquisitions by the Company of shares of its common stock during the quarter ended September 28, 2019.

ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES



Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities.

None.

Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures.

None.

Item 5. Other Information.

None.


Item 6. Exhibits




 MOTOROLA, MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS and the Stylized M Logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Motorola Trademark Holdings, LLC and are used under license. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. ©2019 Motorola Solutions, Inc. All rights reserved.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.




EXHIBIT INDEX




