

UNITED STATES 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 





For the quarterly period ended June 29, 2019 

or 




MTS SYSTEMS CORPORATION 








Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer," "smaller reporting company," and "emerging growth company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.




As of August 1, 2019, there were 19,334,452 shares of common stock outstanding.

MTS Systems Corporation 

Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q 

For the Three Months Ended June 29, 2019 

PART I – FINANCIAL INFORMATION

Item 1. Financial Statements 

MTS SYSTEMS CORPORATION

Consolidated Balance Sheets




The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

MTS SYSTEMS CORPORATION

Consolidated Statements of Income (Unaudited)



The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.      

MTS SYSTEMS CORPORATION

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Unaudited)



The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

MTS SYSTEMS CORPORATION

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity (Unaudited)




The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

MTS SYSTEMS CORPORATION

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited)



The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

MTS SYSTEMS CORPORATION

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 


NOTE 1 BASIS OF PRESENTATION 

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of MTS Systems Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries. Significant intercompany account balances and transactions have been eliminated.

The terms "MTS," "we," "us," "the Company" or "our" in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, unless the context otherwise requires, refer to MTS Systems Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries. 

We have prepared the interim unaudited consolidated financial statements included herein pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States (U.S.) Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The information furnished in these consolidated financial statements includes normal recurring adjustments and reflects all adjustments that are, in our opinion, necessary for a fair presentation of such financial statements. The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported. Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been condensed or omitted pursuant to SEC rules and regulations. The accompanying consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2018 filed with the SEC. Interim results of operations for the third fiscal quarter ended June 29, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full fiscal year. 

We have a 5-4-4 week, quarterly accounting cycle with our fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to September 30. Fiscal year 2019 ending on September 28, 2019 will consist of 52 weeks. Fiscal year 2018 ended on September 29, 2018 consisted of 52 weeks. 

Changes to Significant Accounting Policies

The following accounting policies have been updated since our fiscal year 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Revenue Recognition

As described in Note 2, we adopted Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), followed by related amendments, on September 30, 2018 under the modified retrospective transition method. Our new revenue recognition accounting policy and disclosures relative to this guidance are included in Note 3.

NOTE 2 RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS 

Leases 

In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), followed by related amendments (collectively, "the new lease standard"), which requires lessees to recognize most leases on the balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by those leases. Under the new lease standard, a company recognizes a right-of-use asset, representing the right to use the underlying asset for the lease term, and a corresponding lease liability for all leases with terms greater than 12 months. The new lease standard requires enhanced disclosures regarding the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from a company's leases. Adoption of the new lease standard is required for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2020. The new guidance is required to be adopted using a modified retrospective transition method, and an optional transition method may be elected to use the effective date as the date of initial application on transition.

We intend to adopt the new lease standard for our fiscal year 2020 under the optional transition method with an effective date of September 29, 2019. As a result, we will not adjust our comparative period financial information or make the new required lease disclosures for periods before the effective date, and we will record the impact from adoption as a cumulative-effect reduction to retained earnings as of the effective date. We are currently planning to elect the package of practical expedients to not reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs, and we are currently evaluating the other practical expedients available under the new lease standard. We continue to make progress with preparation for the adoption and implementation of the new lease standard, including assessing the completeness of our lease arrangements, evaluating practical expedients and accounting policy elections, revising our lease-related accounting policies, assessing impacts to controls, and implementing a lease software solution. We anticipate the adoption of the new lease standard will result in an increase in assets and liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. The impact on our Consolidated Statement of Income and Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows is being evaluated. We continue to evaluate the impact that these changes in methodology will have on our financial condition, results of operations and disclosures.

Other




Adopted

In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), followed by related amendments (collectively, "the new revenue standard" or "ASC 606"), to provide a single, comprehensive revenue recognition model for all contracts with customers. Under the new revenue standard, a company recognizes revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration a company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. Determination of when and how revenue is recognized is based on a five-step analysis. Enhanced disclosures regarding the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from a company's contracts with customers are required. 

We adopted the new revenue standard on September 30, 2018 for our fiscal year 2019 under the modified retrospective transition method. As of September 30, 2018, we recorded a cumulative-effect reduction to the opening balance of our fiscal year 2019 retained earnings of $6,227, net of tax, for the net deferral of previously recognized revenue and related cost of sales, partially offset by the capitalization and deferral of pre-contract costs. The comparative information has not been restated and continues to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods. See Note 3 for our new revenue recognition accounting policy and disclosures relative to this guidance.


In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740), Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory, which requires companies to account for the income tax effects of intercompany sales and transfers of assets other than inventory when the transfer occurs. Existing guidance required companies to defer the income tax effects of intercompany transfers of assets until the asset has been sold to an outside party or otherwise recognized. We adopted the standard on a modified retrospective basis for the annual period ending September 28, 2019, including interim periods within that annual period. The adoption of this guidance had no impact on our financial condition, results of operations or disclosures.




Adoption

We adopted the new revenue standard on September 30, 2018 for our fiscal year 2019 under the modified retrospective transition method. We applied the new revenue standard to all contracts which were not completed as of the effective date and elected not to apply contract modification guidance retrospectively. As a result of adoption, we recorded a cumulative-effect reduction to the opening balance of our fiscal year 2019 retained earnings of $6,227, net of tax, for the net deferral of previously recognized revenue and related cost of sales, partially offset by the capitalization and deferral of pre-contract costs.






Revenue Recognition

Revenue is recognized when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for transferring those goods or providing those services. We account for a contract when it has approval and commitment from both parties, the rights of the parties are identified, payment terms are known, the contract has commercial substance and collectability of consideration is probable. 

A performance obligation is a promise in a contract to transfer a distinct good or service to the customer and is the unit of account under the new revenue standard. A contract's transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation and recognized as revenue when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied. Many of our contracts have a single performance obligation as the promise to transfer the individual goods or services is not separately identifiable from other promises in the contracts and, therefore, not distinct. In situations when our contract includes distinct goods or services that are substantially the same and have the same pattern of transfer to the customer over time, they are recognized as a series of distinct goods or services. For contracts with multiple performance obligations, we allocate the contract's transaction price to each performance obligation using our best estimate of the standalone selling price of each distinct good or service in the contract.

We do not adjust the promised amount of consideration for the effects of a significant financing component if we expect, at contract inception, that the period between when we transfer a promised good or service to a customer and when the customer pays for that good or service will be one year or less.

Revenue is recorded net of taxes collected from customers, and taxes collected are recorded as current liabilities until remitted to the relevant government authority. Shipping and handling costs associated with outbound freight after control of a product has transferred are accounted for as a fulfillment cost and are included in cost of sales in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 

The following is a description of the product offerings, end markets, typical revenue transactions and payment terms for each of our two reportable segments. See Note 15 for further information on reportable segments.








Sensors

Our Sensors segment (Sensors) manufactures and sells high-performance sensors which provide measurements of vibration, pressure, position, force and sound in a variety of applications. Our Sensors products are used to enable automation, enhance precision and safety, and lower our customers' production costs by improving performance and reducing downtime. Primary Sensors markets include automotive, aerospace and defense, industrial, and research and development. Our Sensors products are sold as configurable, standard units; utilize piezoelectric or magnetostriction technology; and are ideal for use in harsh operating environments to provide accurate and reliable sensor information. To complement our Sensors products, we also provide spare parts and services. The cycle from contract inception to shipment of equipment is typically one to three months, with the exception of certain high-volume contracts which are fulfilled in a series of shipments over an extended period.

Our Sensors contracts generally have a single performance obligation which is satisfied at a point in time. The performance obligation is a stand-alone sensor product, accessory, service or software license. Sensors contracts are generally fixed-price purchase order fulfillment contracts, and the transaction price is equal to the observable consideration in the contract. Revenue is recognized when obligations under the terms of the contract with our customer are satisfied; generally this occurs with the transfer of control upon product shipment (as evidenced by shipment or delivery terms) or with the performance of the service. Certain contracts are measured using the as invoiced practical expedient as we have a right to consideration from a customer in an amount that corresponds directly with the value to the customer of our performance completed to date.

For our Sensors contracts with customers, payment terms are generally within 90 days. The timing of satisfying our Sensors performance obligations does not vary significantly from the typical timing of payment. For certain high-volume contracts, we are entitled to receive an advance payment.

Disaggregation of Revenue

We disaggregate our revenue by reportable segment, sales type (product or service), the timing of recognition of revenue for transfer of goods or services to customers (point-in-time or over time), and geographic market based on the billing location of the customer. See Note 15 for further information on our reportable segments and intersegment revenue.


Contract Assets and Liabilities



The timing of revenue recognition, billings and cash collections results in billed accounts receivable, unbilled accounts receivable (contract assets) and advance payments from customers (contract liabilities). Contract balances are classified as assets or liabilities on a contract-by-contract basis at the end of each reporting period. Contract liabilities represent payments received from customers at contract inception and at milestones per contract provisions. These payments are recorded in advance payments from customers and other long-term liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets (current and non-current portions, respectively) and are liquidated as revenue is recognized. Conversely, when billing occurs subsequent to revenue recognition for contracts recognized over time, balances are recorded in unbilled accounts receivable, net in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. As customers are billed, unbilled accounts receivable balances are transferred to accounts receivable, net in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.



1 See Note 16 for additional information regarding acquisitions.

Remaining Performance Obligations


Contract Estimates

For contracts recognized over time, we estimate the profit on a contract as the difference between the total estimated revenue and expected costs to complete a contract and recognize that profit over the life of the contract. Contract estimates are based on various assumptions to project the outcome of future events that may span several years. These assumptions include labor productivity and availability, the complexity of the work to be performed, the cost and availability of materials, and internal and subcontractor performance.

Pricing is established at or prior to the time of sale with our customers, and we record sales at the agreed-upon selling price. The terms of a contract or the historical business practice can give rise to variable consideration due to but not limited to volume discounts, penalties and early payment discounts. We estimate variable consideration at the most likely amount we will receive from customers. We include estimated amounts in the transaction price to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized for such transaction will not occur, or when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is resolved. In general, variable consideration in our contracts relates to the entire contract. As a result, the variable consideration is allocated proportionately to all performance obligations. Our estimates of variable consideration and determination of whether to include estimated amounts in the transaction price are based largely on an assessment of our anticipated performance and all information (historical, current and forecasted) that is reasonably available to us at contract 

inception. There are no significant instances where variable consideration is constrained and not recorded at the initial time of sale.

As a significant change in one or more of these estimates could affect the profitability of our contracts, we review and update our contract-related estimates regularly. We recognize adjustments in estimated profit on contracts under the cumulative catch-up method. Under this method, the impact of the adjustment on profit recorded to date is recognized in the period the adjustment is identified. Revenue and profit in future periods of contract performance is recognized using the adjusted estimate. If at any time the estimate of contract profitability indicates an anticipated loss on the contract, we recognize the total loss in the period it is identified. Our review of contract-related estimates has not resulted in adjustments that are significant to our results of operations.

Contract Modifications

When contracts are modified to account for changes in contract specifications and requirements, we consider whether the modification either creates new, or changes existing, enforceable rights and obligations. Contract modifications that are for goods or services that are not distinct from the existing contract, due to the significant integration with the original product or service provided, are accounted for as if they were part of that existing contract. The effect of a contract modification on the transaction price, and our measure of progress for the performance obligation to which it relates, is recognized as an adjustment to revenue (either as an increase in or a reduction of revenue) on a cumulative catch-up basis. When the modifications include additional performance obligations that are distinct and at a relative stand-alone selling price, they are accounted for as a new contract and performance obligation and recognized prospectively.

Warranties and Returns


Our sales terms generally do not allow for a right of return except for situations where the product fails. When the right of return exists, we recognize revenue for the transferred products at the expected amount of consideration for which we will be entitled. 

Pre-contract Costs





We adopted the new revenue standard effective September 30, 2018 under the modified retrospective transition method which impacted inventories, net. See Note 3 for the impact of this adoption on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.

NOTE 5 WARRANTY OBLIGATIONS 

Sales of our products and systems are subject to limited warranty obligations that are included in customer contracts. For sales that include installation services, warranty obligations generally extend for a period of 12 to 24 months from the date of either shipment or acceptance based on the contract terms. Product obligations generally extend for a period of 12 to 24 months from the date of purchase. Certain products offered in our Sensors segment include a lifetime warranty. 

Under the terms of these warranties, we are obligated to repair or replace any components or assemblies deemed defective due to workmanship or materials. We reserve the right to reject warranty claims where it is determined that failure is due to normal wear, customer modifications, improper maintenance or misuse. We record general warranty provisions based on an estimated warranty expense percentage applied to current period revenue. The percentage applied reflects our historical warranty claims experience over the preceding 12-month period. Both the experience percentage and the warranty liability are evaluated on an ongoing basis for adequacy. Warranty provisions are also recognized for certain unanticipated product claims that are individually significant.



NOTE 6 CAPITAL ASSETS 

Property and Equipment



Goodwill



1 See Note 16 for additional information regarding acquisitions.

Intangible Assets








Future amortization amounts presented above are estimates. Actual future amortization expense may be different due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, future acquisitions, impairments, changes in amortization periods or other factors.

NOTE 7 FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS





The hierarchy gives the highest priority to Level 1, as this level provides the most reliable measure of fair value, while giving the lowest priority to Level 3. 

Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis




1 Based on observable market transactions of spot currency rates and forward currency rates on equivalently-termed instruments. Carrying amounts of the financial assets and liabilities are equal to the fair value. See Note 8 for additional information on derivative financial instruments.


Based on London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) and spot rates. Carrying amount of the financial asset is equal to the fair value. See Note 8 for additional information on derivative financial instruments.

Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis

We measure certain financial instruments at fair value on a nonrecurring basis. These assets primarily include goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets acquired either as part of a business acquisition, individually or with a group of other assets, as well as property and equipment. These assets were initially measured and recognized at amounts equal to the fair value determined as of the date of acquisition or purchase subject to changes in value only for foreign currency translation. 

Periodically, these assets are tested for impairment by comparing their respective carrying values to the estimated fair value of the reporting unit or asset group in which they reside. In the event any of these assets were to become impaired, we would recognize an impairment loss equal to the amount by which the carrying value of the reporting unit, impaired asset or asset group exceeds its estimated fair value. Fair value measurements of reporting units are estimated using an income approach involving discounted or undiscounted cash flow models that contain certain Level 3 inputs requiring management judgment, including projections of economic conditions and customer demand, revenue and margins, changes in competition, operating costs, working capital requirements and new product introductions. Fair value measurements of the reporting units associated with our goodwill balances and our indefinite-lived intangible assets are estimated at least annually in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year for purposes of impairment testing if a quantitative analysis is performed. Fair value measurements associated with our intangible assets, other long-lived assets and property and equipment are estimated when events or changes in circumstances such as market value, asset utilization, physical change, legal factors or other matters indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. See Note 6 for additional information on goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, other long-lived assets and property and equipment.

Assets and Liabilities Not Measured at Fair Value

Certain financial instruments are not measured at fair value but are recorded at carrying amounts approximating fair value based on their short-term nature or variable interest rate. These financial instruments include cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, unbilled accounts receivable, accounts payable and short-term borrowings.

Other Financial Instruments




1 The fair value of the 8.75% tangible equity units (TEUs) is based on the most recently quoted price for the outstanding securities, adjusted for any known significant deviations in value. The estimated fair value of these long-term obligations is not necessarily indicative of the amount that would be realized in a current market exchange. See Note 12 for additional information on the TEUs.


The fair value of the tranche B term loan is based on the most recently quoted market price for the outstanding debt instrument, adjusted for any known significant deviations in value. The estimated fair value of the debt obligation is not necessarily indicative of the amount that would be realized in a current market exchange. See Note 9 for additional information on debt instruments.

NOTE 8 DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES 






Cash Flow Hedging – Currency Risks

Currency exchange contracts utilized to maintain the functional currency value of expected financial transactions denominated in foreign currencies are designated as cash flow hedges. Gains and losses related to changes in the market value of these contracts are reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) within shareholders' equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and reclassified to earnings in the same line item in the Consolidated Statements of Income and in the same period as the recognition of the underlying hedged transaction. We periodically assess whether our currency exchange contracts are effective and, when a contract is determined to be no longer effective as a hedge, we discontinue hedge accounting prospectively. 

As of June 29, 2019 and September 29, 2018, we had outstanding cash flow hedge currency exchange contracts with gross notional U.S. dollar equivalent amounts of $35,412 and $39,856, respectively. Upon netting offsetting contracts to sell foreign currencies against contracts to purchase foreign currencies, irrespective of contract maturity dates, the net notional U.S. dollar equivalent amount of contracts outstanding was $28,176 and $29,315 as of June 29, 2019 and September 29, 2018, respectively. As of June 29, 2019, the net market value of the foreign currency exchange contracts was a net asset of $85, consisting of $350 in assets and $265 in liabilities. As of September 29, 2018, the net market value of the foreign currency exchange contracts was a net asset of $816, consisting of $989 in assets and $173 in liabilities.



As of June 29, 2019, the amount projected to be reclassified from AOCI into earnings in the next 12 months was a net gain of $98. The maximum remaining maturity of any forward or optional contract as of June 29, 2019 was 1.4 years.

Interest Rate Swap

On October 20, 2016, we entered into a floating to fixed interest rate swap agreement to mitigate our exposure to interest rate increases related to a portion of our tranche B term loan facility. The total notional amount of the interest rate swap was $225,000 as of June 29, 2019. The swap agreement expires April 3, 2021. As a result of this agreement, every month we pay fixed interest at 1.256% in exchange for interest received at one month U.S. LIBOR. The market value of the interest rate swap as of June 29, 2019 was an asset of $1,664. The interest rate swap has been designated as a cash flow hedge. As a result, changes in the fair value of the interest rate swap are recorded in AOCI within shareholders' equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.



As of June 29, 2019, the amount projected to be reclassified from AOCI into earnings in the next 12 months was a net gain of $1,391.

Foreign Currency Balance Sheet Derivatives

We also use foreign currency derivative contracts to maintain the functional currency value of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional foreign currencies. The gains and losses related to the changes in the market value of these derivative contracts are included in other income (expense), net in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 

As of June 29, 2019 and September 29, 2018, we had outstanding foreign currency balance sheet derivative contracts with gross notional U.S. dollar equivalent amounts of $94,824 and $90,816, respectively. Upon netting offsetting contracts by counterparty banks to sell foreign currencies against contracts to purchase foreign currencies, irrespective of contract maturity dates, the net notional U.S. dollar equivalent amount of contracts outstanding as of June 29, 2019 and September 29, 2018 was $27,833 and $28,271, respectively. As of June 29, 2019 and September 29, 2018, the net market value of the foreign exchange balance sheet derivative contracts was a net liability of $225 and a net asset of $91, respectively. 







Tranche B Term Loan and Revolving Credit Facility

We have a credit agreement with U.S. Bank National Association and HSBC Bank USA, National Association as Co-Documentation Agents, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association as Syndication Agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as Administrative Agent and JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC as Joint Bookrunners and Joint Lead Arrangers (the Credit Agreement). The Credit Agreement as amended provides for senior secured credit facilities consisting of a $150,000 revolving credit facility (the Revolving Credit Facility), which expires on July 5, 2022, and a $460,000 tranche B term loan facility (the Term Facility) which expires on July 5, 2023. The proceeds of the Revolving Credit Facility can be drawn upon to refinance existing indebtedness, for working capital and for other general corporate purposes, up to a maximum of $150,000. The Term Facility amortizes in equal quarterly installments equal to 1% of the original principal amount. The proceeds of the Term Facility were used for financing the acquisition of PCB Group, Inc. (PCB) in fiscal year 2016. Borrowings on the Revolving Credit Facility were used for financing the acquisition of E2M Technologies B.V. (E2M) in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.

In the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, in conjunction with the E2M acquisition, we entered into a third amendment to the Credit Agreement to increase the borrowing capacity on the Revolving Credit Facility from $120,000 to $150,000 and extend the expiration date of the Revolving Credit Facility from July 5, 2021 to July 5, 2022. Additionally, the required performance levels under certain financial covenants were modified. During the nine months ended June 29, 2019, we incurred debt financing costs of $541 as a result of this amendment which were capitalized in current maturities of long-term debt, net and long-term debt, less current maturities, net in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.

The primary categories of borrowing include Alternate Base Rate (ABR) Borrowings (ABR Term Loans and ABR Revolving Loans), Swingline Loans and Eurocurrency Borrowings (Eurocurrency Term Loans and Eurocurrency Revolving Loans), each as defined in the Credit Agreement. ABR Borrowings and Swingline Loans made in U.S. dollars under the Credit Agreement 

bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the ABR plus the Applicable Rate (as defined in the Credit Agreement). The ABR is defined as the greater of (a) the Prime Rate (as defined in the Credit Agreement) in effect on such day, (b) the New York Federal Reserve Bank (NYFRB) rate (as defined in the Credit Agreement) in effect on such day plus ½ of 1.00%, or (c) the Adjusted LIBOR (as defined in the Credit Agreement) for a one-month interest period in dollars on such day plus 1.00%. The ABR for ABR Term Loans shall not be less than 1.75% per annum. The Applicable Rate for any ABR Revolving Loans will be based upon the leverage ratio applicable on such date. As of June 29, 2019, the Applicable Rate for ABR Term Loans was 2.25% per annum.

Eurocurrency Borrowings made under the Credit Agreement bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the Adjusted LIBOR Rate plus the Applicable Rate. The Adjusted LIBOR Rate is defined as an interest rate per annum equal to (a) the LIBOR Rate for such interest period multiplied by (b) the Statutory Reserve Rate (as defined in the Credit Agreement). The Applicable Rate for any Eurocurrency Revolving Loan is based upon the leverage ratio applicable on such date. The Adjusted LIBOR Rate for Eurocurrency Term Loans shall not be less than 0.75% per annum. Based on our leverage ratio as of June 29, 2019, the Applicable Rate for Eurocurrency Revolving Loans was 3.00%. As of June 29, 2019, the Applicable Rate for Eurocurrency Term Loans was 3.25% per annum, plus the applicable Adjusted LIBOR Rate of 2.41%. The weighted average interest rate on Term Facility debt during the nine months ended June 29, 2019 was 5.67%.

As of June 29, 2019, there was $80,391 of outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility which is included in long-term debt, less current maturities, net in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. As of September 29, 2018, there were no outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility. We had outstanding letters of credit drawn from the Revolving Credit Facility totaling $22,580 and $20,448 as of June 29, 2019 and September 29, 2018, respectively, leaving approximately $47,029 and $99,552, respectively, of unused borrowing capacity. Commitment fees are payable on the unused portion of the Revolving Credit Facility at rates between 0.25% and 0.40% based on our leverage ratio. During the three and nine months ended June 29, 2019, commitment fees incurred totaled $52 and $176, respectively. During the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, commitment fees incurred totaled $94 and $250, respectively. 

The Credit Agreement governing the Term Facility requires us to prepay outstanding term loans, subject to certain exceptions, depending on the leverage ratio with (a) up to 50% of the our annual Excess Cash Flow (as defined in the Credit Agreement) and (b) 100% of the net cash proceeds of (i) certain asset sales and casualty and condemnation events, subject to reinvestment rights and certain other exceptions; and (ii) any incurrence or issuance of certain debt, other than debt permitted under the Credit Agreement. We may voluntarily prepay outstanding loans under the Term Facility at any time without premium or penalty. All obligations under the Credit Agreement are unconditionally guaranteed by certain of our existing wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries, and are secured, subject to certain exceptions, by substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiary guarantors. 

Under the Credit Agreement, we are subject to customary affirmative and negative covenants, including, among others, restrictions on our ability to incur debt, create liens, dispose of assets, make investments, loans, advances, guarantees, and acquisitions, enter into transactions with affiliates, and enter into any restrictive agreements and customary events of default (including payment defaults, covenant defaults, change of control defaults and bankruptcy defaults). The Credit Agreement also contains financial covenants, including the ratio of consolidated total indebtedness to adjusted consolidated earnings before income, taxes, depreciation and amortization (Adjusted EBITDA), as defined in the Credit Agreement, as well as the ratio of Adjusted EBITDA to consolidated interest expense. These covenants restrict our ability to purchase outstanding shares of our common stock. As of June 29, 2019 and September 29, 2018, we were in compliance with these financial covenants. 

See Note 7 for additional information on the fair value of the tranche B term loan and the TEU debt.

Interest Rate Swap

On October 20, 2016, in order to mitigate our exposure to interest rate increases on our variable rate debt, we entered into a variable to fixed amortizing interest rate swap. See Note 8 for additional information on derivative financial instruments.



NOTE 10 STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION

We compensate our officers, directors and employees with stock-based compensation under the 2017 Stock Incentive Plan (the 2017 Plan) approved by our shareholders and administered under the supervision of our Board of Directors. As of June 29, 2019, a total of 968 shares were available for issuance under the 2017 Plan. 

We make an annual stock grant under the 2017 Plan of stock options, restricted stock units and performance restricted stock units, as well as stock grants throughout the fiscal year. For fiscal years 2019, 2018 and 2017, the annual stock grant occurred in December 2018, April 2018 and April 2017, respectively.

Stock Options

During the nine months ended June 29, 2019, 231 stock options were granted at a weighted average fair value of $9.91. During the nine months ended June 30, 2018, 245 stock options were granted at a weighted average fair value of $11.10. 

Restricted Stock Units and Performance Restricted Stock Units

We award restricted stock units to directors and key employees and performance restricted stock units to key employees. During the nine months ended June 29, 2019, we granted 129 restricted stock units and 40 performance restricted stock units to directors, officers and employees. During the nine months ended June 30, 2018, we granted 109 restricted stock units and 29 performance restricted stock units. The fair value of the restricted stock units and performance restricted stock units granted during the nine months ended June 29, 2019 and June 30, 2018 was $46.67 and $49.63, respectively, representing the market value of our shares as of the date of grant less the present value of estimated foregone dividends over the vesting period. 

Employee Stock Purchase Plan

Our U.S. employees are eligible to participate in the 2012 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (2012 ESPP) approved by our shareholders. As of June 29, 2019, 599 shares were available for issuance under the 2012 ESPP. During the nine months ended June 29, 2019 and June 30, 2018, we issued 16 and 24 shares, respectively, under the 2012 ESPP at a weighted average price per share of $34.11 and $44.39, respectively. 

NOTE 11 INCOME TAXES

The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act) was enacted into law on December 22, 2017 and made significant changes to U.S. federal corporate tax law. Effective January 1, 2018, the Tax Act lowered the U.S. corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% and prompted various other changes to U.S. federal corporate tax law, including the establishment of a territorial-style system for taxing foreign-source income of domestic multinational corporations and a one-time deemed repatriation tax on untaxed foreign earnings. The Tax Act resulted in a U.S. federal blended statutory rate of 24.5% for fiscal year 2018 and a rate of 21.0% for fiscal year 2019.


As of December 29, 2018, we completed our accounting for the tax effects of the Tax Act at the conclusion of the one-year measurement period. As a result, the income tax provision for the three months ended December 29, 2018 includes certain discrete benefits of $1,293 for Tax Act measurement period adjustments. The discrete benefits relate to $1,297 of additional dividends received deduction for certain foreign tax credits included in the mandatory deemed repatriation tax calculation, partially offset by $4 of expense for other Tax Act measurement period adjustments. The additional dividends received deduction is based on our assessment of the treatment under the applicable provisions of the Tax Act as written and enacted during the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. The Department of the Treasury provided regulatory updates during the three months ended June 29, 2019, causing us to change our assessment of the benefit associated with the dividends received deduction, and in the third quarter of fiscal year 2019 to reverse the entire benefit of $1,297 that was recorded in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.

The effective tax rate for the nine months ended June 29, 2019 increased primarily due to certain discrete benefits in the prior year for the estimated impact of the Tax Act. Excluding the impact of certain discrete benefits in the prior year, the effective tax rate for the nine months ended June 29, 2019 decreased as compared to the same prior year period. Factors that affected the effective tax rate for the nine months ended June 29, 2019 included impacts of the Tax Act, such as elimination of the domestic manufacturing deduction and the implementation of the global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI) provision. These increases were offset by favorable aspects of the Tax Act, such as the decrease in the U.S. income tax rate and provisions for 

incentivizing foreign-derived intangible income (FDII). In the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, we made an accounting policy election to treat the future tax impacts of the GILTI provisions of the Tax Act as a period cost to the extent applicable.

The income tax benefit for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 included certain discrete benefits of $25,378 for the estimated impact of the Tax Act. The discrete benefits related to $32,264 of estimated benefit from the remeasurement of our estimated net deferred tax liabilities, partially offset by $6,886 of estimated expense associated with the mandatory deemed repatriation tax. The income tax benefit for fiscal year 2018 included certain discrete benefits of $25,008 for the estimated impact of the Tax Act. The discrete benefits primarily related to $31,647 of estimated benefit from the remeasurement of our estimated net deferred tax liabilities, partially offset by $6,639 of estimated expense associated with the mandatory deemed repatriation tax.

As of June 29, 2019, the liability for unrecognized tax benefits was $5,745, of which $3,269 would favorably affect our effective tax rate, if recognized. As of September 29, 2018, the liability for unrecognized tax benefits was $6,158, of which $3,740 would favorably affect our effective tax rate, if recognized. As of June 29, 2019, we do not expect significant changes in the amount of unrecognized tax benefits during the next twelve months.

NOTE 12 SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

Tangible Equity Units

During the third quarter of fiscal year 2016, we issued 1,150 TEUs in a registered public offering primarily to finance the acquisition of PCB, to repay amounts outstanding under our existing revolving credit facility and to pay related costs, fees and expenses. Total proceeds, net of underwriting discounts, commissions and other expenses were $110,926. Each TEU has a stated amount of $100 per TEU and is comprised of a prepaid stock purchase contract and a senior amortizing note having a final installment payment date of July 1, 2019. We allocated the proceeds from the issuance of the TEUs between equity and debt based on the relative fair values of the respective components of each TEU. The fair value of the prepaid stock purchase contracts, net of underwriting discounts, commissions and other expenses, was recorded in additional paid-in capital in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The fair value of the senior amortizing note, net of underwriting discounts, commissions and other expenses, was split between current maturities of long-term debt, net and long-term debt, less current maturities, net in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Underwriting discounts, commissions and other costs directly associated with the TEU-related debt were amortized using the effective interest rate method over the three-year term of the instrument.



1 The fair value price allocation between equity and debt for each TEU was determined using a discounted cash flow model.


Other expenses include direct and incremental costs related to the issuance of the TEUs.

Equity Component

Unless converted earlier at the option of the holder, each prepaid stock purchase contract automatically settle on July 1, 2019. If converted prior to the automatic settlement date at the option of the holder, the minimum of 1.9841 shares of our common stock are delivered to the holder of each prepaid stock purchase contract. On the automatic settlement date, a minimum of 1.9841 shares and a maximum of 2.3810 shares of our common stock, subject to adjustment based upon the applicable market value discussed below, will be delivered to the holder of each prepaid stock purchase contract at the settlement date.



The "applicable market value" is defined as the average of the daily volume-weighted average price of the common stock on each of the 20 consecutive trading days beginning on, and including, the 23rd scheduled trading day immediately preceding July 1, 2019.

During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017, certain holders of our TEUs elected to early convert the equity component on 473 of our outstanding TEUs at the minimum conversion rate of 1.9841 which resulted in the issuance of 939 shares of our common stock. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2019, certain holders of our TEUs elected to early convert the equity component on 394 of our outstanding TEUs at the minimum conversion rate of 1.9841 which resulted in the issuance of 781 shares of our common stock. During fiscal year 2018, no holders of our TEUs elected to early convert the equity component of our outstanding TEUs. 

Subsequent to the end of the third quarter of fiscal year 2019, on July 1, 2019, the remaining 283 outstanding TEUs were converted at the minimum conversion rate of 1.9841 which resulted in the issuance of approximately 560 shares of our common stock.

Debt Component

The amortizing senior note was issued with an initial principal amount of $27,386, or $23.8136 per TEU. Equal quarterly cash installments of $2.1875 per amortizing note are paid, which in the aggregate are equivalent to a 8.75% cash distribution per year with respect to each $100 stated amount per TEU. Each installment constitutes a payment of interest and partial repayment of principal. On July 1, 2019, subsequent to the end of the third quarter of fiscal year 2019, the final installment was paid.

Earnings Per Common Share

The TEUs have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share. The 1.9841 minimum shares to be issued are included in the calculation of basic weighted average shares outstanding. The 0.3969 difference between the minimum shares and the 2.3810 maximum shares are potentially dilutive, and accordingly, are included in our diluted earnings per share on a pro rata basis to the extent the applicable market value is higher than the reference price but less than the threshold appreciation price. See Note 13 for additional information regarding the calculation of earnings per share.

Capped Calls

In connection with the pricing of the TEUs sold in our public offering in fiscal year 2016, we purchased capped calls from third party banking institutions (Capped Calls) for $7,935. The initial Capped Calls were for 2,282 equivalent shares of our common stock with a strike price of $50.40, a cap price of $58.80 and an expiration date of July 1, 2019. The value of the Capped Calls is settled with shares of our common stock, based on the approximate market value of our common stock at such time, and could be settled as the TEUs were early converted or settled upon expiration on July 1, 2019 (Capped Call Expiration). During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017, we settled approximately 10% of the Capped Calls, which resulted in us receiving and retiring 12 shares of our common stock. No Capped Calls were settled during the nine months ended June 29, 2019 and fiscal year 2018.

On June 13, 2018, we amended the agreements with third party banking institutions for the outstanding Capped Calls (Capped Call Agreements) to modify the timing of settlement to be only upon expiration for all outstanding Capped Calls. Per the Capped Call Agreements, the outstanding Capped Calls are for 2,054 equivalent shares of our common stock with a strike price of $50.40 and a cap price of $57.97. The Capped Calls will be automatically settled upon Capped Call Expiration in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019 with shares of our common stock based on the average market value of our common stock as defined in the Capped Call Agreements.

As of June 29, 2019, the range of shares of our common stock to be received for the outstanding Capped Calls was a minimum of 0 shares to a maximum of 268 shares, which will be realized if the average market value of our common stock as defined in the Capped Call Agreements is at or below $50.40 or at $57.97, respectively, upon Capped Call Expiration. 

NOTE 13 EARNINGS PER SHARE 

Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income by the daily weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the applicable period. The TEUs are assumed to be settled at the minimum settlement amount of 1.9841 shares per TEU when calculating weighted-average common shares outstanding for purposes of basic earnings per share. 

Using the treasury stock method, diluted earnings per share includes the potentially dilutive effect of common shares issued in connection with outstanding stock-based compensation options and grants. The potentially dilutive effect of common shares issued in connection with outstanding stock options is determined based on the average market price for the period. For diluted earnings per share, the TEUs are assumed to be settled at a conversion factor based on our daily volume-weighted average price per share of our common stock for the 20 consecutive trading days preceding the end of the current fiscal quarter not to exceed 2.3810 shares of common stock per TEU.

Under the treasury stock method, shares associated with certain stock options have been excluded from the diluted weighted average shares outstanding calculation because the exercise of those options would lead to a net reduction in common shares outstanding or anti-dilution. As a result, stock options to acquire 835 and 667 weighted common shares have been excluded from the diluted weighted average common shares outstanding calculation for the three months ended June 29, 2019 and June 30, 2018, respectively. Stock options to acquire 812 and 548 weighted common shares have been excluded from the diluted weighted average common shares outstanding calculation for the nine months ended June 29, 2019 and June 30, 2018, respectively.

In connection with the pricing of the TEUs, we purchased capped calls. The capped calls will not be reflected in the calculation of diluted earnings per share until settled as they will lead to a net reduction in common shares outstanding or anti-dilution. See Note 12 for additional information on our equity instruments.



NOTE 14 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)

Other comprehensive income (loss), a component of shareholders' equity, consists of foreign currency translation adjustments, gains or losses on derivative instruments and defined benefit pension plan adjustments. 










Change in classification of actuarial loss on defined benefit pension plan related to the adoption of ASU No. 2017-07 in fiscal year 2019. See Note 2 for additional information on the impact of adoption. 

NOTE 15 BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION 


In evaluating each segment's performance, our Chief Executive Officer focuses on income from operations. This measure excludes interest income and expense, income taxes and other non-operating items. Corporate expenses, including costs associated with various support functions such as human resources, information technology, legal, finance and accounting, and general and administrative costs are allocated to the reportable segments on the basis of revenue. The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as those described in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements found in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2018 and in Note 3 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.

Intersegment revenue is based on standard costs with reasonable mark-ups established between the reportable segments. All significant intersegment amounts are eliminated to arrive at consolidated financial results. 



NOTE 16  BUSINESS ACQUISITIONS




The allocation of purchase price consideration is considered preliminary as of June 29, 2019 with provisional amounts primarily related to inventory for customer projects in various stages of completion, intangible assets and certain tax related items included as our allocation process has not been finalized. We expect to finalize the allocation of purchase price as soon as possible, but no later than one year from the acquisition date. 


The preliminary fair value of the acquired intangible assets was $43,989. The acquired intangible assets are being amortized on a straight-line basis over the useful lives identified in the table above.

NOTE 17 SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

Issuance of Senior Unsecured Notes

On July 16, 2019, we issued $350,000 in aggregate principal amount of 5.750% senior unsecured notes due 2027 (the Notes). The Notes were issued pursuant to an Indenture dated as of July 16, 2019 among us, the Guarantors (as defined therein) and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee (the Indenture). The Notes will mature on August 15, 2027. Interest will accrue at the rate of 5.750% per annum and will be payable semi-annually on each February 15 and August 15, with the first interest payment due on February 15, 2020. We used the net proceeds after discounts and expenses of approximately $344,000 from this offering to repay all outstanding debt under the Revolving Credit Facility, to repay a portion of the Term Facility and for general corporate purposes.

Termination of Interest Rate Swap

In connection with the repayment of a portion of the Term Facility, we terminated the associated interest rate swap. As of June 29, 2019, the interest rate swap had a total notional amount of $225,000. The market value of the interest rate swap as of June 29, 2019 was an asset of $1,664. See Note 8 for additional information on our interest rate swap.

Purchase of Assets


Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations


•Overview

•Financial Results

•Cash Flow Comparison

•Liquidity and Capital Resources

•Off-balance Sheet Arrangements

•Critical Accounting Policies

•Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements

•Other Matters

•Forward-looking Statements


Overview

MTS Systems Corporation's testing and simulation hardware, software and service solutions help customers accelerate and improve their design, development and manufacturing processes and are used for determining the mechanical behavior of materials, products and structures. Our high-performance sensors provide measurements of vibration, pressure, position, force and sound in a variety of applications. As of September 29, 2018, we had 3,400 employees and revenue of $778,032 for fiscal year 2018.


Acquisition

On November 21, 2018, we acquired E2M Technologies B.V. (E2M) for a cash purchase price of $80,287. We funded the acquisition of E2M through borrowings on our Revolving Credit Facility. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion of the acquisition of E2M. 

Financing

On November 21, 2018, we amended the Credit Agreement to increase the size of our Revolving Credit Facility from $120,000 to $150,000 and to extend the expiration date to July 5, 2022. The size of the Revolving Credit Facility was increased to finance the purchase of E2M. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion of the amendment to the Credit Agreement. 

Conversion of 8.75% Tangible Equity Units (TEUs)

During the third quarter of fiscal year 2019, certain holders of our TEUs elected to early convert the equity component on 394 of our outstanding TEUs at the minimum conversion rate of 1.9841 which resulted in the issuance of 781 shares of our common stock. 

Foreign Currency

Approximately 70% of our revenue has historically been derived from customers outside of the U.S. Our financial results are principally exposed to changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the Euro, the Japanese yen and the Chinese yuan. A change in foreign exchange rates could positively or negatively affect our reported financial results. The discussion below quantifies the impact of foreign currency translation on our financial results for the periods discussed.

Adoption of New Revenue Recognition Standard

In fiscal year 2019, we adopted Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), followed by related amendments (collectively, "the new revenue standard" or "ASC 606"). See Note 2 and Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the impact of this adoption on our Consolidated Income Statements and Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Terms

The terms "MTS," "we," "us," "the Company" or "our" in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, unless the context otherwise requires, refer to MTS Systems Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries.

Financial Results

Total Company 

Results of Operations

The following tables compare results of operations, separately identifying the estimated impact of currency translation, the acquisition of E2M in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and restructuring costs incurred in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. 



2 The Acquisition column includes revenues and costs from the acquisition of E2M and costs incurred as part of the acquisition of E2M. 


See Notes 3, 16 and 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on the new revenue standard, restructuring and related costs, and the E2M acquisition, respectively. 






Selling and marketing expense for the three months ended June 29, 2019 increased 3.6% primarily due to increased compensation expense to support sales growth, partially offset by the favorable impact of currency translation. Excluding the impact of currency translation, E2M expenses and restructuring costs incurred in the prior year, selling and marketing expense increased 5.5%.

Selling and marketing expense for the nine months ended June 29, 2019 increased 4.2% primarily due to increased compensation and commissions expense to support sales growth and the addition of E2M expenses, partially offset by the favorable impact of currency translation. Excluding the impact of currency translation, E2M expenses and restructuring costs incurred in the prior year, selling and marketing expense increased 5.5%.








Income from operations for the three and nine months ended June 29, 2019 increased 41.4% and 31.9%, respectively, primarily due to increased gross profit on higher revenue volume and the impact of the E2M acquisition, partially offset by higher compensation expense and acquisition-related expenses. Excluding the impact of currency translation, the E2M acquisition, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, income from operations increased 36.2% and 31.4%, respectively.


Interest expense, net for the three and nine months ended June 29, 2019 increased primarily due to an increase in interest expense on the revolving credit facility drawn on in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 to fund the acquisition of E2M, which was partially offset by a reduction in interest expense related to lower balances on the tranche B term loan, as well as current year favorable effects of our interest rate swap. 


The decrease in other income (expense), net for the three months ended June 29, 2019 was primarily driven by a relative increase in losses on foreign currency transactions, partially offset by an increase in rental income. 

The increase in other income (expense), net for the nine months ended June 29, 2019 was primarily driven by an increase in rental income, partially offset by a relative increase in losses on foreign currency transactions. 


The effective tax rate for the three months ended June 29, 2019 increased primarily due to higher earnings before tax and the reversal of a $1,297 discrete tax benefit originally recorded in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 related to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act) as a result of regulatory updates issued during the third quarter of fiscal year 2019. 

The effective tax rate for the nine months ended June 29, 2019 increased primarily due to certain discrete benefits of $25,378 in the prior year for the estimated impact of the Tax Act. Excluding the impact of these discrete benefits, the effective tax rate for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 would have been 15.2%. The decrease in the effective income tax rate was primarily due to the implementation of the lower 21% U.S. statutory rate for fiscal year 2019 as compared to the blended statutory rate of 24.5% effective in fiscal year 2018. 




Segment Results


Results of Operations 




2 The Acquisition column includes revenues and costs from the acquisition of E2M and costs incurred as part of the acquisition of E2M. 


See Notes 3, 16 and 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on the new revenue standard, restructuring and related costs, and the E2M acquisition, respectively. 


Revenue for the three and nine months ended June 29, 2019 increased 27.8% and 23.3%, respectively, primarily driven by volume growth across all sectors from conversion of robust beginning-of-year backlog and the acquisition of E2M in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. The increase was partially offset by the unfavorable impact of currency translation. Excluding the impact of currency translation and the E2M acquisition, revenue increased 23.7% and 19.4%, respectively. 


Gross profit for the three months ended June 29, 2019 increased 21.0% primarily due to higher revenue volume and the gross profit contribution from the E2M acquisition, partially offset by increased compensation expense. Gross margin declined 1.7 percentage points primarily driven by increased compensation expense and lower gross margin contribution from product mix, partially offset by leverage on higher revenue volume, lower warranty expense and the favorable impact of currency translation. Excluding the impact of currency translation, the E2M acquisition, and restructuring costs incurred in the prior year, gross profit increased 14.8% and gross margin declined 2.4 percentage points.

Gross profit for the nine months ended June 29, 2019 increased 19.2% primarily due to higher revenue volume and the gross profit contribution from the E2M acquisition, partially offset by increased compensation expense. Gross margin declined 1.0 percentage point primarily driven by increased compensation expense and the $1,141 E2M acquisition inventory adjustment, partially offset by leverage on higher revenue volume, strong project execution and the favorable impact of currency translation. Excluding the impact of currency translation, the E2M acquisition, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, gross profit increased 14.3% and gross margin declined 1.4 percentage points.


Selling and marketing expense for the three months ended June 29, 2019 increased 5.6% primarily due to higher compensation and bad debt expense, partially offset by the favorable impact of currency translation. Excluding the impact of currency translation, E2M expenses and restructuring costs incurred in the prior year, selling and marketing expense increased 7.5%.

Selling and marketing expense for the nine months ended June 29, 2019 increased 6.1% primarily due to higher commissions and compensation expense, as well as the addition of E2M expenses, partially offset by the favorable impact of currency translation. Excluding the impact of currency translation, E2M expenses and restructuring costs incurred in the prior year, selling and marketing expense increased 6.9%.


General and administrative expense for the three months ended June 29, 2019 declined 0.8% primarily driven by lower compensation expense, partially offset by the addition of E2M expenses. Excluding the impact of currency translation, E2M expenses, and restructuring costs incurred in the prior year, general and administrative expense decreased 13.3%.

General and administrative expense for the nine months ended June 29, 2019 increased 9.0% primarily driven by the addition of E2M expenses and acquisition-related expenses, partially offset by lower compensation expense. Excluding the impact of currency translation, E2M expenses, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, general and administrative expense decreased 3.1%.






Income from operations for the nine months ended June 29, 2019 increased 146.1% primarily due to increased gross profit on higher revenue volume, partially offset by higher compensation and commissions expense. Excluding the impact of currency translation, the E2M acquisition, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, income from operations increased 125.5%.

Sensors Segment

Results of Operations

The following tables compare results of operations for Sensors, separately identifying the estimated impact of currency translation. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on our reportable segments.




Revenue for the three months ended June 29, 2019 increased 6.6% primarily driven by growth in both the Sensors test sector from a multi-year contract with the U.S. Department of Defense and the Sensors industrial sector from strength in the energy market, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of currency translation. Excluding the impact of currency translation, revenue increased 8.9%.

Revenue for the nine months ended June 29, 2019 increased 3.4% primarily driven by growth in the Sensors test sector from a multi-year contract with the U.S. Department of Defense, growth in the Sensors position sector in the first half of the fiscal year and growth in the Sensors industrial sector from strength in the energy market, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of currency translation. Excluding the impact of currency translation, revenue increased 5.6%.


Gross profit for the three and nine months ended June 29, 2019 increased 2.8% and 0.4%, respectively, primarily due to increased revenue volume, partially offset by increased compensation expense and the unfavorable impact of currency translation. Gross margin declined 1.9 and 1.5 percentage points, respectively, primarily driven by increased compensation expense during the ramp-up of manufacturing capacity to support both new products and growth in order volume in a tight labor market. Excluding the impact of currency translation, gross profit increased 4.7% and 2.3%, respectively, and gross margin declined 2.0 and 1.6 percentage, respectively.


Selling and marketing expense for the three and nine months ended June 29, 2019 increased 1.2% and 2.1%, respectively, primarily driven by increased compensation from headcount additions to support sales growth, partially offset by the favorable impact of currency translation. Excluding the impact of currency translation, selling and marketing expense increased 3.2% and 3.9%, respectively.


General and administrative expense for the three and nine months ended June 29, 2019 increased 20.0% and 8.5%, respectively, primarily driven by higher professional fees and compensation expense. Excluding the impact of currency translation, general and administrative expense increased 20.8% and 9.3%, respectively. 




Income from operations for the three and nine months ended June 29, 2019 declined 6.8% and 8.0%, respectively, primarily due to increased compensation expense, the unfavorable impact of currency translation and higher professional fees, partially offset by increased gross profit on higher revenue volume. Excluding the impact of currency translation, income from operations decreased 4.0% and 5.1%, respectively.

Cash Flow Comparison



Operating Activities

The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to an increase in cash used by working capital associated with timing fluctuations from accounts receivable payments received and unbilled accounts receivable accruals, accounts payable payments, advanced payments received from customers, and inventory purchases, as well as a decrease in net income due to the remeasurement of our estimated deferred tax liabilities as a result of the Tax Act in fiscal year 2018. This decrease was partially offset by a reduction in cash used by deferred income taxes due to the Tax Act in fiscal year 2018, an increase in cash provided by other assets and liabilities related to accrued project costs, and a decrease in cash used by payroll-related accruals.

Investing Activities

The increase in cash used in investing activities was primarily due to the acquisition of E2M in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 as well as an increase in cash used to purchase property and equipment for continued strategic investments in the business. 

Financing Activities

The increase in cash provided by financing activities was primarily due to borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility used to fund the acquisition of E2M and a decrease in cash used for long-term debt payments due to required annual Excess Cash Flow payments made in fiscal year 2018. 

Liquidity and Capital Resources

We had cash and cash equivalents of $75,735 as of June 29, 2019. Of this amount, $21,623 was located in North America, $28,601 in Europe and $25,511 in Asia. Repatriation of certain foreign earnings is restricted by local law. The North American cash balance was primarily invested in bank deposits. The cash balances in Europe and Asia were primarily invested in money market funds and bank deposits. In accordance with our investment policy, we place cash equivalent investments with issuers who have high-quality investment credit ratings. In addition, we limit the amount of investment exposure we have with any particular issuer. Our investment objectives are to preserve principal, maintain liquidity and achieve the best available return consistent with our primary objectives of safety and liquidity. As of June 29, 2019, we held no short-term investments. 

As a result of the transition tax related to the enactment of the Tax Act, we are able to repatriate cash held in our foreign subsidiaries without such funds being subject to additional federal income tax liability. We plan to continue to repatriate certain amounts of our existing offshore cash and future earnings back to the U.S. 

As of June 29, 2019, our capital structure was comprised of $31,634 in short-term debt, $440,767 in long-term debt and $494,539 in shareholders' equity. Long-term debt included $80,391 on our Revolving Credit Facility used to finance the acquisition of E2M. The Consolidated Balance Sheets also included $9,885 of unamortized debt issuance costs as of June 29, 2019. Total interest-bearing debt as of June 29, 2019 was $472,401. We have a credit agreement with a consortium of financial institutions (the Credit Agreement) that provides for senior secured credit facilities consisting of a Revolving Credit Facility and a Term Facility. The maturity date of the Revolving Credit Facility is July 5, 2022 and the maturity date of the loans under the Term Facility is July 5, 2023, unless a term loan lender agrees to extend the maturity date pursuant to a loan modification agreement made in accordance with the terms of the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement also requires mandatory prepayments on our Term Facility in certain circumstances, including the potential for an annual required prepayment of a certain percentage of our excess cash flow.

Under the Credit Agreement, we are subject to customary affirmative and negative covenants, including, among others, restrictions on our ability to incur debt, create liens, dispose of assets, make investments, loans, advances, guarantees and acquisitions, enter into transactions with affiliates and enter into any restrictive agreements and customary events of default (including payment defaults, covenant defaults, change of control defaults and bankruptcy defaults). The Credit Agreement also contains financial covenants, including the ratio of consolidated total indebtedness to adjusted consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (Adjusted EBITDA), as defined in the Credit Agreement, as well as the ratio of Adjusted EBITDA to consolidated interest expense. These covenants restrict our ability to pay dividends and purchase outstanding shares of common stock. As of June 29, 2019, we were in compliance with these financial covenants. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item I of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on our financing arrangements.

Shareholders' equity increased by $16,607 during the nine months ended June 29, 2019 primarily due to $38,246 net income and $7,515 stock-based compensation. The increase was partially offset by $16,355 dividends declared and $6,885 other comprehensive loss. Also contributing to the decrease was a cumulative effect of accounting change reduction to our opening retained earnings balance of $6,227 related to the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard, ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).

As of June 29, 2019, we believe our current capital resources will be sufficient to fund working capital requirements, capital expenditures and operations for the foreseeable future, including at least the next twelve months. See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for changes to our capital structure incurred subsequent to the end of the third quarter of fiscal year 2019.

Off-balance Sheet Arrangements

As of June 29, 2019, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to investors. 

Critical Accounting Policies

The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP, which requires us to make estimates and assumptions in certain circumstances that affect amounts reported, giving due consideration to materiality, that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosures of any contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements. We regularly review our estimates and assumptions, which are based on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. For further information, see "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" under Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2018. For a discussion of our critical accounting policies, see "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Item 7 of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2018.

The following critical accounting policy has been updated since our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2018.

Revenue Recognition (Over Time)

Revenue is recognized either over time as work progresses or at a point-in-time, dependent upon contract-specific terms and the pattern of transfer of control of the product or service to the customer. Contracts with equipment revenue recognized over time use costs incurred to date relative to total estimated costs at completion to measure progress toward satisfying the performance obligation. Incurred cost represents work performed, which corresponds with, and thereby best depicts, the transfer of control to the customer. Equipment contract costs include materials, component parts, labor and overhead costs. For contracts 

recognized over time, we estimate the profit on a contract as the difference between the total estimated revenue and expected costs to complete a contract and recognize that profit over the life of the contract. Contract estimates are based on various assumptions to determine the outcome of future events that may span several years. These assumptions include labor productivity and availability, the complexity of the work to be performed, the cost and availability of materials, and internal and subcontractor performance.

As a significant change in one or more of these estimates could affect the profitability of our contracts, we review and update our contract-related estimates regularly. We recognize adjustments in estimated profit on contracts under the cumulative catch-up method. Under this method, the impact of the adjustment on profit recorded to date is recognized in the period the adjustment is identified. Revenue and profit in future periods of contract performance is recognized using the adjusted estimate. If at any time the estimate of contract profitability indicates an anticipated loss on the contract, we recognize the total loss in the period it is identified. Our review of contract-related estimates has not resulted in adjustments that are significant to our results of operations.

Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements

Information regarding new accounting pronouncements is included in Note 2 and Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 

Other Matters

Dividends

Our dividend policy is to maintain a payout ratio that allows dividends to increase in conjunction with the long-term growth of earnings per share, while sustaining dividends through economic cycles. Our dividend practice is to target, over time, a payout ratio of approximately 25% of net earnings per share. We have historically paid dividends to holders of our common stock on a quarterly basis. The declaration and payment of future dividends will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to, our earnings, financial condition, debt repayment obligations, business development needs and regulatory considerations and are at the discretion of our Board of Directors. 

Forward-looking Statements

Statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q including, but not limited to, the discussion under Item 2, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, that are not statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the Act). In addition, certain statements in our future filings with the SEC, in press releases, and in oral and written statements made by us or with our approval that are not statements of historical fact constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Act. Examples of forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: (i) projections of revenue, ROIC, Adjusted EBITDA, net income or loss, earnings or loss per share, the payment or nonpayment of dividends, our capital structure, the adequacy of our liquidity and reserves, the anticipated level of expenditures required and other statements concerning future financial performance; (ii) statements of our plans and objectives by our management or Board of Directors, including those relating to products or services, our restructuring initiatives, merger or acquisition activity and the potential impact of newly acquired businesses; (iii) statements of assumptions underlying such statements; (iv) statements regarding business relationships with vendors, customers or collaborators or statements relating to our order cancellation history, our ability to convert our backlog of undelivered orders into revenue, the timing of purchases, competitive advantages and growth in end markets; and (v) statements regarding our products and their characteristics, fluctuations in the costs of raw materials for products, our geographic footprint, performance, sales potential or effect in the hands of customers. Words such as "believes," "anticipates," "expects," "intends," "targeted," "should," "potential," "goals," "strategy," and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. 

Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those in such statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from those discussed in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those described in Item 1A of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2018 and in Item 1A of Part II of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The performance of our business and our securities may be adversely affected by these factors and by other factors common to other businesses and investments, or to the general economy. Forward-looking statements are qualified by some or all of these risk factors. Therefore, you should consider these forward-looking statements with caution and form your own critical and independent conclusions about the likely effect of these risk factors on our future performance. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which such statements are made, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events or circumstances. You should carefully review the disclosures and the risk factors described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2018 and in other documents we file from time to time with the SEC, including our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K. 

Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

Foreign Currency Exchange Risk

Approximately 70% of our revenue has historically been derived from customers outside of the U.S. Our international subsidiaries have functional currencies other than our U.S. dollar reporting currency and, occasionally, transact business in currencies other than their functional currencies. These non-functional currency transactions expose us to market risk on assets, liabilities and cash flows recognized on these transactions. 

The strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies decreases the value of foreign currency-denominated revenue and earnings when translated into U.S. dollars resulting in an unfavorable currency translation impact on revenue and earnings. Conversely, a weakening of the U.S. dollar increases the value of foreign currency-denominated revenue and earnings resulting in a favorable currency translation impact on revenue and earnings. 

A hypothetical 10% appreciation or depreciation in foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar, assuming all other variables are held constant, would result in an increase or decrease in revenue of approximately $25,701 for the nine months ended June 29, 2019. 

We have operational procedures to mitigate these non-functional currency exposures. We also utilize foreign currency exchange contracts to exchange currencies at set exchange rates on future dates to offset expected gains or losses on specifically identified exposures. 

Mark-to-market gains and losses on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges in our currency hedging program are recorded within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (AOCI) in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Mark-to-market gains and losses are reclassified from AOCI to earnings in the same line item in the Consolidated Statements of Income and in the same period as the recognition of the underlying hedged transaction. Net gains and losses on foreign currency transactions included in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Income were net losses of $651 and $73 during the nine months ended June 29, 2019 and June 30, 2018, respectively. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on our cash flow hedge currency exchange contracts. 

Interest Rates

We are directly exposed to changes in market interest rates on cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and long-term debt, and are indirectly exposed to the impact of market interest rates on overall business activity. 

On floating-rate investments, increases or decreases in market interest rates will increase or decrease future interest income, respectively. On floating-rate debt, increases or decreases in market interest rates will increase or decrease future interest expense, respectively. On fixed-rate investments, increases or decreases in market interest rates do not impact future interest income but may decrease or increase the fair market value of the investments, respectively. On fixed-rate debt, increases or decreases in market interest rates do not impact future interest expense but may decrease or increase the fair market value of the debt, respectively.

As of June 29, 2019, we had cash and cash equivalents of $75,735, some of which was invested in interest-bearing bank deposits or money market funds. The interest-bearing bank deposits and money market funds have interest rates that reset every 1 to 89 days and generate interest income that will vary based on changes in short-term interest rates. A hypothetical decrease of 100 basis points in market interest rates, assuming all other variables were held constant, would decrease interest income by approximately $74 for the nine months ended June 29, 2019.

Secured floating rate credit facilities require interest payments to be calculated at a floating rate and are therefore impacted by increases or decreases in market interest rates. We have hedged a portion of our floating-rate debt to a fixed-rate such that the interest expense on this debt will not vary with changes in short-term interest rates. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on our interest rate swap. A hypothetical increase of 100 basis points in floating interest rates applied against our unhedged variable interest rate debt balance, assuming all other variables were held constant, would result in an approximately $2,652 increase in future annual interest expense.

Item 4. Controls and Procedures

Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act)), as of June 29, 2019. Based on that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of June 29, 2019, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective.

There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the third quarter of fiscal year 2019 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

PART II – OTHER INFORMATION

Item 1. Legal Proceedings

We are subject to various claims, legal actions and complaints arising in the ordinary course of business. We are not presently a party to any litigation the outcome of which we believe, if determined adversely to us, would individually or taken together have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flows or financial condition.

Item 1A. Risk Factors

A discussion of our risk factors can be found in Item 1A of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2018. The information below includes additional and updated risks relating to our $350,000 aggregate principal amount 5.750% senior unsecured notes due 2027 (the Notes) and other indebtedness. The risks described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K are not the only risks we face. Additional risks not currently known to us, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, may also adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations in future periods.

Our level and terms of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations and take advantage of new business opportunities and prevent us from meeting our obligations under our debt instruments.

As of June 29, 2019, we had $468,357 outstanding under our senior secured credit facilities. Giving pro forma effect to the issuance of the Notes on July 16, 2019, as of June 29, 2019 we would have had $350,000 in aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes outstanding, approximately $174,000 outstanding under our Tranche B term loan facility and no amounts drawn under our revolving credit facility. See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for changes to our capital structure incurred subsequent to the end of the third quarter of fiscal year 2019.


•increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions;

•requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow used in operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness; therefore, reducing our liquidity and our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities;

•exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates, and corresponding increased interest expense, because future borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities will be at variable rates of interest;

•reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes due to the costs and expenses associated with such debt;

•limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions, and general corporate or other purposes;

•limiting our ability to adjust to changing marketplace conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who may have less debt; and

•potentially causing us to fail to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our debt instruments, which, among other things, require us to maintain specified financial ratios, which failure could, if not cured or waived, have a material adverse effect on our ability to fulfill our obligations under our senior secured credit facilities and the Notes and on our business and prospects generally.

In addition, the credit agreement that governs our senior secured credit facilities and the indenture that governs the Notes impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including limitations on our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness (including guarantee obligations); incur liens; engage in mergers, consolidations and certain other fundamental changes; dispose of assets; make advances, investments and loans; engage in sale and leaseback transactions; engage in certain transactions with affiliates; pay dividends, distributions and other payments in respect of capital stock; repurchase or retire capital stock, warrants or options; and engage in other actions that we may believe are advisable or necessary for our business. As a result of these restrictions, we will be limited as to how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to capitalize on available business opportunities. Further, our tranche B term loan facility is also subject to mandatory prepayments in certain circumstances and requires a prepayment of a certain percentage of our excess cash flow. Any future mandatory prepayments will reduce our cash available for other purposes and could impact our ability to reinvest in other areas of our business.

There are no assurances that we will maintain a level of liquidity sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations, which could cause us to default on our debt obligations and impair our liquidity. In the event of a default under any of our indebtedness, the holders of the defaulted debt could elect to declare all the funds borrowed to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, which in turn could result in cross-defaults under our other indebtedness. The lenders under our senior secured credit facilities could also elect to terminate their commitments thereunder and cease making further loans, and such lenders could institute foreclosure proceedings against their collateral, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. 

Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly.

Our senior secured credit facilities bear, and other indebtedness we may incur in the future may bear, interest at a variable rate. As a result, at any given time interest rates on the senior secured credit facilities and any other variable rate debt could be higher or lower than current levels. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on our variable rate indebtedness will increase even though the amount borrowed remains the same, and therefore net income and associated cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, will correspondingly decrease.

Increases in interest rates may directly impact the amount of interest we are required to pay and reduce earnings accordingly. In addition, recent developments in tax policy as a part of the Tax Act, such as the disallowance of tax deductions for a portion of the interest paid on outstanding indebtedness, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity.

Despite our current level of indebtedness, the terms of our existing indebtedness allow us, under certain circumstances, to incur substantially more debt, incur substantial ordinary course operating obligations, and enter into other transactions, which would increase our leverage and further exacerbate the risks to our financial condition described above.

We may be able to incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. Although the credit agreement that governs our senior secured credit facilities and the indenture that governs the senior unsecured notes contain restrictions on incurring additional indebtedness and entering into certain types of other transactions, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions. Additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. In addition, these restrictions also do not prevent us from incurring obligations, such as certain trade payables, that do not constitute indebtedness as defined under our debt instruments. To the extent we incur additional indebtedness or other obligations, the risks described herein may increase.

Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds



We purchase common stock from time to time to mitigate dilution related to new shares issued for employee compensation such as stock options, restricted stock units, performance restricted stock units and for employee stock purchase plan activity, as well as to return to shareholders capital not immediately required to fund ongoing operations. 

Share Purchase Plan

Our Board of Directors approved, and on February 11, 2011 announced, a purchase authorization of 2,000 shares. Authority over pricing and timing under the authorization has been delegated to management. The share purchase authorization has no expiration date. We made no share purchases during the third quarter of fiscal year 2019. As of June 29, 2019, there were 438 shares available for purchase under the existing authorization.

Capped Calls

In connection with the pricing of the tangible equity units (TEUs) sold in our public offering in fiscal year 2016, we purchased capped calls from third party banking institutions (Capped Calls) for $7,935. On June 13, 2018, we amended the agreements with third party banking institutions for the outstanding Capped Calls (Capped Call Agreements) to modify the timing of settlement to be only upon expiration for all outstanding Capped Calls. Per the Capped Call Agreements, the outstanding Capped Calls will automatically settle upon Capped Call Expiration in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019. As of June 29, 2019 the range of shares of our common stock to be received for the outstanding Capped Calls was a minimum of 0 shares to a maximum of 268 shares, subject to market conditions. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on our equity instruments.

Item 6. Exhibits


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


