Document   

UNITED STATES 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 





For the quarterly period ended December 30, 2017 

or 




MTS SYSTEMS CORPORATION 






Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer," "smaller reporting company," and "emerging growth company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.




As of February 1, 2018, there were 17,806,736 shares of Common Stock outstanding.

MTS Systems Corporation 

Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q 

For the Three Months Ended December 30, 2017 

PART I – FINANCIAL INFORMATION

Item 1. Financial Statements 

MTS SYSTEMS CORPORATION

Consolidated Balance Sheets




The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

MTS SYSTEMS CORPORATION

Consolidated Statements of Income (Unaudited)



The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.      

MTS SYSTEMS CORPORATION

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Unaudited)



The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

MTS SYSTEMS CORPORATION

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited)



The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

MTS SYSTEMS CORPORATION

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 


NOTE 1 BASIS OF PRESENTATION 

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of MTS Systems Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries. Significant intercompany account balances and transactions have been eliminated.

The terms "MTS," "we," "us," the "Company" or "our" in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, unless the context otherwise requires, refer to MTS Systems Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries. 

We have prepared the interim unaudited consolidated financial statements included herein pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States (U.S.) Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The information furnished in these consolidated financial statements includes normal recurring adjustments and reflects all adjustments that are, in our opinion, necessary for a fair presentation of such financial statements. The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported. Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been condensed or omitted pursuant to SEC rules and regulations. The accompanying consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017 filed with the SEC. Interim results of operations for the first fiscal quarter ended December 30, 2017 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full fiscal year. 

We have a 5-4-4 week, quarterly accounting cycle with our fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to September 30. Fiscal year 2018 ending on September 29, 2018 will consist of 52 weeks. Fiscal year 2017 ended on September 30, 2017 and consisted of 52 weeks. 

NOTE 2 RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

Revenue Recognition






In December 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-20, Technical Corrections and Improvements to Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which amends ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), providing thirteen corrections and improvements to the new revenue standard.

The aforementioned revenue standards and amendments are required to be adopted for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2019. The new standards and amendments may be adopted retrospectively for all periods presented, or adopted using a modified retrospective approach. Early adoption is permitted for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, and interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2018. We intend to adopt the aforementioned revenue standards and amendments for our fiscal year 2019. We currently anticipate utilizing the modified retrospective approach as our method of adoption. We have substantially completed our review and analysis of our sales channels, selected contracts, policies and practices as compared to the new guidance and continue to work through implementation steps. We continue to evaluate our procedural and related system requirements related to the provisions of this standard. We are updating and rewriting our revenue recognition accounting policy as needed to reflect the requirements of this standard. In fiscal year 2018, we expect to draft our new revenue disclosures. We anticipate the revenue recognition methodology and timing of revenue recognition may change for certain products and contracts. Certain contracts may have a delay in revenue recognition until the customer takes control of the product, while certain products and contracts may accelerate revenue recognition to recognize revenue over the life of the contract. We continue to evaluate the impact that these changes in methodology will have on our consolidated financial statements.

Other 

In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 824), which requires lessees to recognize a right-of-use asset, representing the right to use the underlying asset for the lease term, and a lease liability on the balance sheet for all leases with terms greater than 12 months. Lessees can forgo recognizing a right-of-use asset and lease liability with lease terms of 12 months or less on the balance sheet through accounting policy elections as long as the lease does not include options to purchase the underlying assets that are reasonably certain to be exercised. The new guidance also requires certain qualitative and quantitative disclosures designed to assess the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases, along with additional key information about leasing arrangements. The standard is required to be adopted for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2020. The amendment is to be applied using a modified retrospective approach, which includes a number of optional practical expedients, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this guidance will have on our financial condition, results of operations and disclosures.



In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740), Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory, which requires companies to account for the income tax effects of intercompany sales and transfers of assets other than inventory when the transfer occurs. Current guidance requires companies to defer the income tax effects of intercompany transfers of assets until the asset has been sold to an outside party or otherwise recognized. The standard is required to be adopted for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2019. The amendment is to be applied using a modified retrospective approach. Early adoption is permitted as of the beginning of an annual period. We are currently evaluating the impact, if any, the adoption of this guidance will have on our financial condition, results of operations and disclosures.




Adopted








NOTE 4 WARRANTY OBLIGATIONS 

Sales of our products and systems are subject to limited warranty obligations that are included in customer contracts. For sales that include installation services, warranty obligations generally extend for a period of 12 to 24 months from the date of either shipment or acceptance based on the contract terms. Product obligations generally extend for a period of 12 to 24 months from the date of purchase. Certain products offered in our Sensors segment include a lifetime warranty. 

Under the terms of these warranties, we are obligated to repair or replace any components or assemblies deemed defective due to workmanship or materials. We reserve the right to reject warranty claims where it is determined that failure is due to normal wear, customer modifications, improper maintenance or misuse. We record general warranty provisions based on an estimated warranty expense percentage applied to current period revenue. The percentage applied reflects our historical warranty claims experience over the preceding 12-month period. Both the experience percentage and the warranty liability are evaluated on an ongoing basis for adequacy. Warranty provisions are also recognized for certain unanticipated product claims that are individually significant.



NOTE 5 CAPITAL ASSETS 

Property and Equipment



Assets held under capital leases, consisting of machinery and equipment, are recorded at the present value of minimum lease payments and are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated life of the asset or the lease term. Amortization of assets held as capital leases is included in depreciation expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 

Goodwill



Intangible Assets








Future amortization amounts presented above are estimates. Actual future amortization expense may be different due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, future acquisitions, impairments, changes in amortization periods or other factors.

NOTE 6 FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS





The hierarchy gives the highest priority to Level 1, as this level provides the most reliable measure of fair value, while giving the lowest priority to Level 3. 

Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis




1 Based on observable market transactions of spot currency rates and forward currency rates on equivalently-termed instruments. Carrying amounts of the financial assets and liabilities are equal to the fair value. See Note 7 for additional information on derivative financial instruments.

2 Based on London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) and spot rates. Carrying amount of the financial asset is equal to the fair value. See Note 7 for additional information on derivative financial instruments.

Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis

We measure certain financial instruments at fair value on a nonrecurring basis. These assets primarily include goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets acquired either as part of a business acquisition, individually or with a group of other assets, as well as property and equipment. These assets were initially measured and recognized at amounts equal to the fair value determined as of the date of acquisition or purchase subject to changes in value only for foreign currency translation. Periodically, these assets are tested for impairment by comparing their respective carrying values to the estimated fair value of the reporting unit or asset group in which they reside. In the event any of these assets were to become impaired, we would recognize an impairment loss equal to the amount by which the carrying value of the reporting unit, impaired asset or asset group exceeds its estimated fair value. Fair value measurements of reporting units are estimated using an income approach involving discounted or undiscounted cash flow models that contain certain Level 3 inputs requiring management judgment, including projections of economic conditions and customer demand, revenue and margins, changes in competition, operating costs, working capital requirements and new product introductions. Fair value measurements of the reporting units associated with our goodwill balances and our indefinite-lived intangible assets are estimated at least annually in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year for purposes of impairment testing if a quantitative analysis is performed. Fair value measurements associated with our intangible assets, other long-lived assets and property and equipment are estimated when events or changes in circumstances such as market value, asset utilization, physical change, legal factors or other matters indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. See Note 5 for additional information on goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, other long-lived assets and property and equipment.

Assets and Liabilities Not Measured at Fair Value

Certain financial instruments are not measured at fair value but are recorded at carrying amounts approximating fair value based on their short-term nature or variable interest rate. These financial instruments include cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and short-term borrowings.

Other Financial Instruments




1 The fair value of the 8.75% tangible equity units (TEUs) is based on the most recently quoted price for the outstanding securities, adjusted for any known significant deviations in value. The estimated fair value of these long-term obligations is not necessarily indicative of the amount that would be realized in a current market exchange. See Note 12 for additional information on the TEUs.

2 The fair value of the tranche B term loan is based on the most recently quoted market price for the outstanding debt instrument, adjusted for any known significant deviations in value. The estimated fair value of the debt obligation is not necessarily indicative of the amount that would be realized in a current market exchange. See Note 8 for additional information on debt instruments.

NOTE 7 DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES 






1 Net fair value of foreign exchange cash flow hedge assets or liabilities that could have been reported in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Cash Flow Hedging – Currency Risks

Currency exchange contracts utilized to maintain the functional currency value of expected financial transactions denominated in foreign currencies are designated as cash flow hedges. Qualifying gains and losses related to changes in the market value of these contracts are reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (AOCI) within shareholders' equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and reclassified into earnings in the same period during which the underlying hedged transaction affects earnings. The effective portion of the cash flow hedges represents the change in fair value of the hedge that offsets the change in the functional currency value of the hedged item. We periodically assess whether our currency exchange contracts are effective and, when a contract is determined to be no longer effective as a hedge, we discontinue hedge accounting prospectively. Subsequent changes in the market value of ineffective currency exchange contracts are recognized as an increase or decrease in revenue in the Consolidated Statements of Income as that is the same line item in which the underlying hedged transaction is reported. 

As of December 30, 2017 and September 30, 2017, we had outstanding cash flow hedge currency exchange contracts with gross notional U.S. dollar equivalent amounts of $44,890 and $29,136, respectively. Upon netting offsetting contracts to sell foreign currencies against contracts to purchase foreign currencies, irrespective of contract maturity dates, the net notional U.S. dollar equivalent amount of contracts outstanding was $39,951 and $24,093 as of December 30, 2017 and September 30, 2017, respectively. As of December 30, 2017, the net market value of the foreign currency exchange contracts was a net liability of $369, consisting of $151 in assets and $520 in liabilities. As of September 30, 2017, the net market value of the foreign currency exchange contracts was a net liability of $478, consisting of $73 in assets and $551 in liabilities.



The amount recognized in earnings as a result of the ineffectiveness of cash flow hedges was less than $1 in each of the three months ended December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016. As of December 30, 2017, the amount projected to be reclassified from AOCI into earnings in the next 12 months was a net loss of $438. The maximum remaining maturity of any forward or optional contract as of December 30, 2017 was 2.1 years.

Interest Rate Swaps

On October 20, 2016, we entered into a floating to fixed interest rate swap agreement to mitigate our exposure to interest rate increases related to a portion of our tranche B term loan facility. The total notional amount of the interest rate swap was $255,000 as of December 30, 2017. The swap agreement expires April 3, 2021. As a result of this agreement, every month we pay fixed interest at 1.256% in exchange for interest received at one month U.S. LIBOR. The market value of the interest rate swap as of December 30, 2017 was an asset of $5,027. The interest rate swap has been designated as a cash flow hedge. As a result, changes in the fair value of the interest rate swap are recorded in AOCI within shareholders' equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.



As of December 30, 2017, the amount projected to be reclassified from AOCI into earnings in the next 12 months was a net gain of $1,359.

Foreign Currency Balance Sheet Derivatives

We also use foreign currency derivative contracts to maintain the functional currency value of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional foreign currencies. The gains and losses related to the changes in the market value of these derivative contracts are included in other income (expense), net in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 

As of December 30, 2017 and September 30, 2017, we had outstanding foreign currency balance sheet derivative contracts with gross notional U.S. dollar equivalent amounts of $48,441 and $52,208, respectively. Upon netting offsetting contracts by counterparty banks to sell foreign currencies against contracts to purchase foreign currencies, irrespective of contract maturity dates, the net notional U.S. dollar equivalent amount of contracts outstanding as of December 30, 2017 and September 30, 2017 was $14,990 and $14,762, respectively. As of December 30, 2017 and September 30, 2017, the net market value of the foreign exchange balance sheet derivative contracts was a net liability of $21 and a net asset of $77, respectively. 







Tranche B Term Loan and Revolving Credit Facility

We have a credit agreement with U.S. Bank National Association and HSBC Bank USA, National Association as Co-Documentation Agents, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association as Syndication Agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as Administrative Agent and JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC as Joint Bookrunners and Joint Lead Arrangers (the Credit Agreement). The Credit Agreement provides for senior secured credit facilities consisting of a $120,000 revolving credit facility (the Revolving Credit Facility) which expires on July 5, 2021 and a $460,000 tranche B term loan facility (the Term Facility) which expires on July 5, 2023. The proceeds of the Revolving Credit Facility can be drawn upon to refinance existing indebtedness and for working capital and other general corporate purposes up to a maximum of $120,000. The proceeds of the Term Facility were used for financing the acquisition of PCB Group, Inc. (PCB) in fiscal year 2016. The Term Facility amortizes in equal quarterly installments equal to 1% of the original principal amount.

The primary categories of borrowing include Alternate Base Rate (ABR) Borrowing (ABR Term Loans and ABR Revolving Loans), Swingline Loans and Eurocurrency Borrowing (each as defined in the Credit Agreement). ABR Borrowings and Swingline Loans made in U.S. dollars under the Credit Agreement bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the ABR plus the Applicable Rate (as defined in the Credit Agreement). The ABR is defined as the greater of (a) the Prime Rate (as defined in the Credit Agreement) in effect on such day, (b) the New York Federal Reserve Bank (NYFRB) rate (as defined in the Credit Agreement) in effect on such day plus ½ of 1.00%, or (c) the Adjusted LIBOR (as defined in the Credit Agreement) for a one-month interest period in dollars on such day plus 1.00%. The ABR for ABR Term Loans shall not be less than 1.75% per annum. The Applicable Rate for any ABR Revolving Loans will be based upon the leverage ratio applicable on such date. As of December 30, 2017, the Applicable Rate for ABR Term Loans was 2.25% per annum.

Eurocurrency Borrowings made under the Credit Agreement bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the Adjusted LIBOR Rate plus the Applicable Rate. The Adjusted LIBOR Rate is defined as an interest rate per annum equal to (a) the LIBOR Rate for such interest period multiplied by (b) the Statutory Reserve Rate (as defined in the Credit Agreement). The Applicable Rate for any Eurocurrency Revolving Loan is based upon the leverage ratio applicable on such date. The Adjusted LIBOR Rate for Eurocurrency Term Loans shall not be less than 0.75% per annum. Based on our leverage ratio as of December 30, 2017, the Applicable Rate for Eurocurrency Revolving Loans was 3.00%. As of December 30, 2017, the Applicable Rate for Eurocurrency Term Loans was 3.25% per annum, plus the applicable Adjusted LIBOR Rate of 1.44%. The weighted average interest rate on Term Facility debt during the three months ended December 30, 2017 was 4.54%.

Outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility were $5,000 and $0, as of December 30, 2017 and September 30, 2017, respectively, reported in short-term borrowings in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. We had outstanding letters of credit drawn from the Revolving Credit Facility totaling $43,381 and $37,811 as of December 30, 2017 and September 30, 2017, respectively, leaving approximately $71,619 and $82,189, respectively, of unused borrowing capacity. Commitment fees are payable on the unused portion of the Revolving Credit Facility at rates between 0.25% and 0.40% based on our leverage ratio. During the three months ended December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, commitment fees incurred totaled $79 and $101, respectively. 

The Credit Agreement governing the Term Facility requires us to prepay outstanding term loans, subject to certain exceptions, depending on the leverage ratio with (a) up to 50% of the Company's annual Excess Cash Flow (as defined in the Credit Agreement) and (b) 100% of the net cash proceeds of (i) certain asset sales and casualty and condemnation events, subject to reinvestment rights and certain other exceptions; and (ii) any incurrence or issuance of certain debt, other than debt permitted under the Credit Agreement. We may voluntarily prepay outstanding loans under the Term Facility at any time without premium or penalty. All obligations under the Credit Agreement are unconditionally guaranteed by certain of the Company's existing wholly owned domestic subsidiaries, and are secured, subject to certain exceptions, by substantially all of the Company's assets and the assets of the Company's subsidiary guarantors. 

Under the Credit Agreement, we are subject to customary affirmative and negative covenants, including, among others, restrictions on our ability to incur debt, create liens, dispose of assets, make investments, loans, advances, guarantees, and acquisitions, enter into transactions with affiliates, and enter into any restrictive agreements and customary events of default (including payment defaults, covenant defaults, change of control defaults and bankruptcy defaults). The Credit Agreement also contains financial covenants, including the ratio of consolidated total indebtedness to adjusted consolidated earnings before income, taxes, depreciation and amortization (Adjusted EBITDA), as defined in the Credit Agreement, as well as the ratio of Adjusted EBITDA to consolidated interest expense. These covenants restrict our ability to purchase outstanding shares of our common stock. As of December 30, 2017 and September 30, 2017, we were in compliance with these financial covenants. 

See Note 6 for additional information on the fair value of the tranche B term loan and the TEU debt.

Interest Rate Swaps

On October 20, 2016, in order to mitigate our exposure to interest rate increases on our variable rate debt, we entered into a variable to fixed amortizing interest rate swap. See Note 7 for additional information on derivative financial instruments.



NOTE 9 STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION

We compensate our officers, directors and employees with stock-based compensation under the 2017 Stock Incentive Plan (the 2017 Plan) approved by our shareholders and administered under the supervision of our Board of Directors. As of December 30, 2017, a total of 1,595 shares were available for issuance under the 2017 Plan. 


Stock Options

There were no stock options granted during the three months ended December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016. 

Restricted Stock Units and Performance Restricted Stock Units

We award restricted stock units to directors and key employees and performance restricted stock units to key employees. During the three months ended December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, we granted approximately 1,294 restricted stock units to officers and employees and 2 restricted stock units to employees, respectively. The fair value of the restricted stock units granted during the three months ended December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016 was $51.78 and $47.73, respectively, representing the market value of our shares at the date of grant less the present value of estimated foregone dividends over the 

vesting period. There were no performance restricted stock units granted during the three months ended December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016. 

Employee Stock Purchase Plan

Our U.S. employees are eligible to participate in the 2012 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (2012 ESPP) approved by our shareholders. As of December 30, 2017, a total of 639 shares were available for issuance under the 2012 ESPP. During the three months ended December 30, 2017, we issued no shares under the 2012 ESPP. During the three months ended December 31, 2016, we issued 14 shares of our common stock to participants under the 2012 ESPP at a weighted average price per share of $37.53.

NOTE 10 EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS



The weighted average expected long-term rate of return on plan assets used to determine the net periodic benefit cost for each of the three months ended December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016 was 5.5%.

NOTE 11 INCOME TAXES

The income tax benefit for the three months ended December 30, 2017 included certain discrete benefits of $25,378 for the estimated impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act) enacted into law on December 22, 2017. The discrete benefits primarily related to $32,264 of estimated benefit from the remeasurement of our estimated net deferred tax liabilities, partially offset by $6,886 of estimated expense associated with the mandatory deemed repatriation tax. Excluding the impact of these discrete benefits, the effective tax rate for the three months ended December 30, 2017 decreased compared to the prior year primarily due to the lower U.S. corporate tax rate under the Tax Act. 


Amounts recorded where the accounting is complete during the three months ended December 30, 2017 primarily relate to the reduction in the U.S. corporate income tax rate to 21%, and we recorded an income tax benefit of $32,244 to remeasure deferred tax liabilities associated with intangible assets that will reverse at the new 21% rate. 

Amounts recorded where the accounting is provisional during the three months ended December 30, 2017 include the remeasurement of other deferred taxes where the timing of the reversal cannot be known at this time. We have performed a provisional estimate of the net impact of remeasurement of other deferred tax assets and liabilities and recorded a $20 income tax benefit during the three months ended December 30, 2017. In addition, the Tax Act includes a one-time mandatory repatriation transition tax on the net accumulated earnings and profits of our foreign subsidiaries. We have performed a provisional estimate of this tax and recorded a $6,886 income tax provision during the three months ended December 30, 2017. These amounts are provisional based on incomplete information and use of estimates at future balance sheet dates which are needed to finalize the calculation.

We analyzed the Tax Act for all tax provisions expected to be effective in fiscal year 2018, and there are no anticipated effects of the Tax Act where we have not yet recorded a reasonable estimate of the accounting effect as of December 30, 2017.

The full-year estimated annual effective tax rate, which excludes the impact of discrete items, was 17.3% as of December 30, 2017, as compared to 21.8% as of December 31, 2016. This decrease is primarily due to the reduction of the U.S. federal statutory rate from 35.0% to 24.5%, a blended rate based upon our fiscal year, partially offset by higher income before taxes.

As of December 30, 2017, the liability for unrecognized tax benefits was $6,771, of which $4,173 would favorably affect our effective tax rate, if recognized. As of September 30, 2017, the liability for unrecognized tax benefits was $5,849, of which $3,234 would favorably affect our effective tax rate, if recognized. As of December 30, 2017, we do not expect significant changes in the amount of unrecognized tax benefits during the next twelve months.

NOTE 12 SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

Tangible Equity Units

During the third quarter of fiscal year 2016, we issued 1,150 TEUs in a registered public offering primarily to finance the acquisition of PCB, to repay amounts outstanding under our existing revolving credit facility and to pay related costs, fees and expenses. Total proceeds, net of underwriting discounts, commissions and other expenses were $110,926. Each TEU has a stated amount of $100 per TEU and is comprised of a prepaid stock purchase contract and a senior amortizing note having a final installment payment date of July 1, 2019. We allocated the proceeds from the issuance of the TEUs between equity and debt based on the relative fair values of the respective components of each TEU. The fair value of the prepaid stock purchase contracts, net of underwriting discounts, commissions and other expenses, was recorded in additional paid-in capital in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The fair value of the senior amortizing note, net of underwriting discounts, commissions and other expenses, was split between current maturities of long-term debt, net and long-term debt, less current maturities, net in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Underwriting discounts, commissions and other costs directly associated with the TEU-related debt will be amortized using the effective interest rate method over the three year term of the instrument.



1 The fair value price allocation between equity and debt for each TEU was determined using a discounted cash flow model.

2 Other expenses include direct and incremental costs related to the issuance of the TEUs.

Equity Component

Unless converted earlier at the option of the holder, each prepaid stock purchase contract will automatically settle on July 1, 2019. If converted prior to the automatic settlement date at the option of the holder, the minimum of 1.9841 shares of our common stock are delivered to the holder of each prepaid stock purchase contract. On the automatic settlement date, a minimum of 1.9841 shares and a maximum of 2.3810 shares of our common stock, subject to adjustment based upon the applicable market value discussed below, will be delivered to the holder of each prepaid stock purchase contract at the settlement date.


The "applicable market value" is defined as the average of the daily volume-weighted average price of the common stock on each of the 20 consecutive trading days beginning on, and including, the 23rd scheduled trading day immediately preceding July 1, 2019.

During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017, certain holders of our TEUs elected to early convert the equity component on 473 of our outstanding TEUs at the minimum conversion rate of 1.9841 which resulted in the issuance of 939 shares of our common stock. During the three months ended December 30, 2017, no holders of our TEUs elected to early convert the equity component of our outstanding TEUs. There were 677 units of the equity component of TEUs outstanding as of both December 30, 2017 and September 30, 2017. 

Debt Component

The amortizing senior note was issued with an initial principal amount of $27,386 or $23.8136 per TEU. Equal quarterly cash installments of $2.1875 per amortizing note will be paid, which in the aggregate will be equivalent to a 8.75% cash distribution per year with respect to each $100 stated amount per TEU. Each installment will constitute a payment of interest and partial repayment of principal. 

Earnings Per Common Share

The TEUs have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share. The 1.9841 minimum shares to be issued are included in the calculation of basic weighted average shares outstanding. The 0.3969 difference between the minimum shares and the 2.3810 maximum shares are potentially dilutive, and accordingly, are included in our diluted earnings per share on a pro rata basis to the extent the applicable market value is higher than the reference price but less than the threshold appreciation price. See Note 13 for additional information regarding the calculation of earnings per share.

Capped Calls

In connection with the pricing of the TEUs sold in our public offering in fiscal year 2016, we purchased capped calls from third party banking institutions (Capped Calls) for $7,935. The initial Capped Calls were for 2,282 equivalent shares of our common stock with a strike price of $50.40, a cap price of $58.80 and an expiration date of July 1, 2019 (Capped Call Expiration). The value of the Capped Calls is settled with shares of our common stock, based on the approximate market value of our common stock at such time, and may be settled as the TEUs are early converted or settled upon Capped Call Expiration. 

During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017, we settled approximately 10% of the Capped Calls, which resulted in us receiving and retiring 12 shares of our common stock. During the three months ended December 30, 2017, no Capped Calls were settled. As of December 30, 2017, the range of shares of our common stock to be received under the outstanding Capped Calls was 0 to 293 shares, which will be realized if our stock price closes at or below $50.40 or at $58.80, respectively, upon Capped Call Expiration. Settlement of the Capped Calls prior to Capped Call Expiration may be for fewer shares than the maximum of 293 shares.

NOTE 13 EARNINGS PER SHARE 

Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income by the daily weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the applicable period. The TEUs are assumed to be settled at the minimum settlement amount of 1.9841 shares per TEU when calculating weighted-average common shares outstanding for purposes of basic earnings per share. 

Using the treasury stock method, diluted earnings per share includes the potentially dilutive effect of common shares issued in connection with outstanding stock-based compensation options and grants. The potentially dilutive effect of common shares issued in connection with outstanding stock options is determined based on the average market price for the period. For diluted earnings per share, the TEUs are assumed to be settled at a conversion factor based on our daily volume-weighted average price per share of our common stock for the 20 consecutive trading days preceding the end of the current fiscal quarter not to exceed 2.3810 shares of common stock per TEU.

Under the treasury stock method, shares associated with certain stock options have been excluded from the diluted weighted average shares outstanding calculation because the exercise of those options would lead to a net reduction in common shares outstanding or anti-dilution. As a result, stock options to acquire 496 and 663 weighted common shares have been excluded from the diluted weighted average common shares outstanding calculation for the three months ended December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, respectively. 

In connection with the pricing of the TEUs, we purchased Capped Calls. The Capped Calls will not be reflected in the calculation of diluted earnings per share until settled as they are anti-dilutive. See Note 12 for additional information on our equity instruments.



NOTE 14 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)

Other comprehensive income (loss), a component of shareholders' equity, consists of foreign currency translation adjustments, gains or losses on derivative instruments and defined benefit pension plan adjustments. 









NOTE 15 BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION 

Our Chief Executive Officer (the Chief Operating Decision Maker) regularly reviews financial information for our two operating segments, Test and Sensors. Test provides testing equipment, systems and services to the ground vehicles, materials and structures sectors. Sensors provides high performance sensors for acceleration, position, vibration, motion, pressure and force measurement. 

In evaluating each segment's performance, our Chief Executive Officer focuses on income from operations. This measure excludes interest income and expense, income taxes and other non-operating items. Corporate expenses, including costs associated with various support functions such as human resources, information technology, legal, finance, and accounting, and general and administrative costs, are allocated to the reportable segments on the basis of revenue. The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as those described in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements found in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017. 

On January 5, 2017, we announced the division of our Test segment into two separate business units, "Materials Test Systems" and "Vehicles and Structure Test Systems." The division of our Test segment will result in us having three operating segments once discrete financial information is made available to our Chief Operating Decision Maker. We will continue to report only the Test and Sensors segments until such time. We continue to evaluate the timing of such implementation.



NOTE 16 RESTRUCTURING AND RELATED COSTS

During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017, we initiated a series of Test workforce reductions and facility closures intended to increase organizational effectiveness, gain manufacturing efficiencies and provide cost savings that can be reinvested in our growth initiatives. As a result, in the three months ended December 30, 2017, we recorded $93 of pre-tax severance and related expense and $162 of pre-tax facility closure costs. As of December 30, 2017, we have incurred a total of $3,177 of pre-tax expense, including $2,992 and $185 of pre-tax expense related to severance and facility closure costs, respectively. For the remainder of fiscal year 2018, we expect to incur $1,000 to $3,000 of additional pre-tax severance and related expenses and facility closure costs related to these actions. The majority of the expenses are expected to be paid in fiscal year 2018. 

During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017, in an effort to reduce costs and create economic efficiencies in Sensors, we initiated plans to close our Machida, Japan sales office in the second quarter of fiscal year 2018. In the three months ended December 30, 2017, we recorded an immaterial adjustment to the severance and related expense reported in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017. As of December 30, 2017, we have incurred a total of $112 of pre-tax severance and related expense. We expect to incur additional pre-tax severance and related expense of approximately $74. The majority of the expenses are expected to be paid in fiscal year 2018. 

Fiscal Year 2016 Restructuring

During fiscal year 2016, we initiated plans to reduce costs in Sensors by closing our Machida, Japan manufacturing facility in the third quarter of fiscal year 2017. We incurred $0 and $563 in the three months ended December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, respectively. As of December 30, 2017, we have incurred a total of $1,964 of pre-tax expense, including $1,444 and $520 related to severance and facility closure costs, respectively. The remaining severance and facility closing costs are expected to be paid during the third quarter of fiscal year 2018. 

Fiscal Year 2014 Restructuring

During fiscal year 2014, we initiated workforce and other cost reduction actions at certain of our Test locations in the U.S. and Europe. No restructuring expenses were recognized during the three months ended December 30, 2017 or December 31, 2016 related to these restructuring actions.







Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations


•Overview

•Financial Results

•Cash Flow Comparison

•Liquidity and Capital Resources

•Off-balance Sheet Arrangements

•Critical Accounting Policies

•Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements

•Other Matters

•Forward-looking Statements


Overview

MTS Systems Corporation is a leading global supplier of high performance test systems and sensors. Our testing hardware and software solutions help customers accelerate and improve design, development and manufacturing processes and are used for determining the mechanical behavior of materials, products and structures. Our high performance sensors provide controls for a variety of applications measuring acceleration, position, vibration, motion, pressure, force and sound. As of September 30, 2017, we had 3,500 employees and revenue of $787,955 for fiscal year 2017.

Our goal is to sustain profitable enterprise growth, consistently generate strong cash flow and deliver a strong return on invested capital to our shareholders by leveraging our leadership position in the research and development and industrial global end markets for high-performance test systems and sensors. Our desire is to be the innovation leader in creating test and measurement solutions and to provide total customer satisfaction. We believe we can create value for our customers by helping to enhance the precision, improve the reliability and create superior safety for their products, while reducing the delivery time to market for their products. Our competitive advantages include our proprietary technology and advanced application expertise, our expansive global footprint with long-term customer relationships, our large installed base of testing equipment and our expanded presence in the rapidly growing sensors market. We believe these competitive advantages position us well in both the test and sensors markets to deliver profitable growth in the years ahead.


•Realize growth within the rapidly expanding Sensors market through an increase in our global market share and new product development;

•Expand Test services offerings into our large installed base of Test equipment;

•Capitalize on growth opportunities in the Test materials sector spurred by new manufacturing processes, focus on light-weight materials in aerospace and ground vehicle markets, and trends in energy exploration; and 

•Adapt our industry-leading ground vehicle testing applications to align with emerging trends in vehicle electrification, autonomous vehicles, and simulation. 

We believe that our business model supports our growth objectives, provided that we continue to move aggressively to build our infrastructure, expand our offerings and execute on opportunities with our key customers around the world. In order to accelerate our revenue growth over the next five years, investments in infrastructure, sales support and field service capacity and capability are essential. 

Tax Cuts and Jobs Act

The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act) was signed into law on December 22, 2017. The Tax Act made numerous changes to U.S. federal corporate tax law and reduced our effective tax rate for fiscal year 2018 and future periods. Effective January 1, 2018, the Tax Act lowers the U.S. corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% and prompts various other changes to U.S. federal corporate tax law, including the establishment of a territorial-style system for taxing foreign-source income of domestic multinational corporations. We are in the process of quantifying the tax impacts of the Tax Act and have recorded an estimate of 

the impact in our first quarter of fiscal year 2018 results. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion of the impact of the Tax Act.

Foreign Currency

Approximately 70% of our revenue has historically been derived from customers outside of the U.S. Our financial results are principally exposed to changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the Euro, the Japanese yen and the Chinese yuan. A change in foreign exchange rates could positively or negatively affect our reported financial results. The discussion below quantifies the impact of foreign currency translation on our financial results for the periods discussed.

Terms

The terms "MTS," "we," "us," the "Company," or "our" in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, unless the context otherwise requires, refer to MTS Systems Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries.

Financial Results

Total Company 

Results of Operations

The following table compares results of operations, separately identifying the estimated impact of currency translation and restructuring costs incurred in fiscal year 2018. 


See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on restructuring and related costs. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2016, we completed the acquisition of PCB Group, Inc. (PCB). As a result of the PCB acquisition, we incurred certain non-recurring costs during fiscal year 2017 including acquisition integration costs and a fair value adjustment on acquired PCB inventory.


Revenue for the three months ended December 30, 2017 declined by 2.6% primarily due to a decrease in Test revenue, partially offset by revenue growth in our Sensors business and the favorable impact of currency translation. Test revenue decreased $12,923 primarily driven by lower equipment order volume in the first half of fiscal year 2017. Current year Test revenue was also impacted by higher custom project backlog weighting which takes longer to convert into revenue. Sensors revenue increased $7,806 primarily driven by strong demand in the Sensors position sector and continued momentum from new revenue opportunities in the Sensors test sector. Excluding the impact of currency translation, revenue decreased 4.6%.


Gross profit for the three months ended December 30, 2017 increased 6.1% primarily due to the prior year impact from the PCB acquisition driven by a fair value adjustment on acquired inventory of $7,724 and increased current year revenue volume in Sensors, partially offset by reduced revenue volume in Test. Gross margin rate increased 3.2 percentage points primarily due to the prior year impact from the PCB acquisition driven by a fair value adjustment on acquired inventory and favorable leverage on increased Sensors revenue volume, partially offset by investments to support the Test project pipeline and unfavorable leverage on lower Test revenue volume. Excluding the impact of currency translation, the prior year fair value adjustment on acquired PCB inventory, prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, gross profit declined 5.9% and the gross margin rate declined 0.6 percentage points.


Selling and marketing expense for the three months ended December 30, 2017 increased by 5.1% primarily due to higher compensation expenses in Sensors and the unfavorable impact of currency translation. Excluding the impact of currency translation, prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, selling and marketing expense increased 3.3%.


General and administrative expense for the three months ended December 30, 2017 declined by 14.4% primarily due to prior year non-recurring China Code of Conduct investigation expenses of $1,976, prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses of $1,503, and decreased professional fees, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of currency translation. Excluding the impact of currency translation, prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses, prior year China investigation expenses and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, general and administrative expense decreased 1.0%.




Income from operations for the three months ended December 30, 2017 increased by 60.3% primarily due to the prior year impact from the PCB acquisition driven by a fair value adjustment on acquired PCB inventory of $7,724 and non-recurring PCB acquisition integration expenses of $1,688, prior year China investigation expenses of $1,976, increased gross profit from leverage on volume growth in Sensors, and prior year restructuring costs of $563, partially offset by decreased Test gross profit from unfavorable leverage on revenue. Excluding the impact of currency translation, the prior year fair value adjustment on acquired PCB inventory, prior year non-recurring PCB acquisition integration expenses, prior year China investigation expenses, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, income from operations decreased 25.5%.


Interest expense, net for the three months ended December 30, 2017 decreased primarily due to reduced interest rates on the tranche B term loan facility as a result of the debt repricing completed in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017, as well as lower current year average debt outstanding.


The increase in other income (expense), net for the three months ended December 30, 2017 was primarily driven by a decrease in losses on foreign currency transactions. 


The effective tax rate for the three months ended December 30, 2017 decreased due to certain discrete benefits of $25,378 for the estimated impact of the Tax Act. The discrete benefits primarily related to $32,264 of estimated benefit from the remeasurement of our estimated net deferred tax liabilities, partially offset by $6,886 of estimated expense associated with the mandatory deemed repatriation tax. Excluding the impact of these discrete benefits, the effective tax rate for the three months ended December 30, 2017 would have been 17.9% and decreased compared to the prior year primarily due to the lower U.S. corporate tax rate under the Tax Act. 


Net income and diluted earnings per share for the three months ended December 30, 2017 increased due to a reduction in the effective tax rate and discrete benefits stemming from the Tax Act, as well as increased gross profit and lower operating expenses.

Segment Results

Test Segment 

Results of Operations 

The following table compares results of operations for Test, separately identifying the estimated impact of currency translation and restructuring costs incurred in fiscal year 2018.



Revenue for the three months ended December 30, 2017 decreased by 9.9% primarily driven by lower equipment order volume in the first half of fiscal year 2017. Current year Test revenue was also impacted by higher custom project backlog weighting which takes longer to convert into revenue. This was partially offset by the favorable impact of currency translation and growth in service revenue. Excluding the impact of currency translation, revenue decreased 11.6%. 


Gross profit for the three months ended December 30, 2017 declined by 16.4%. Gross margin rate declined 2.6 percentage points primarily due to increased costs from investments to support the project pipeline, unfavorable leverage on lower revenue volume and the unfavorable impact of currency translation, partially offset by project execution. Excluding the impact of currency translation and restructuring costs, gross profit declined 17.0% and gross margin rate declined 2.2 percentage points.


Selling and marketing expense for the three months ended December 30, 2017 increased by 4.1% primarily due to increased compensation expenses and the unfavorable impact of currency translation. Excluding the impact of currency translation, selling and marketing expense increased 1.6%.


General and administrative expense for the three months ended December 30, 2017 declined by 14.3% primarily due to prior year China investigation expenses of $1,976 and increased professional fees, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of currency translation. Excluding the impact of currency translation, prior year China investigation expenses, and restructuring costs, general and administrative expense decreased 1.4%.




Income from operations for the three months ended December 30, 2017 declined by 52.1% primarily due to the decrease in gross profit driven by lower equipment order volume in the first half of fiscal year 2017, partially offset by prior year China investigation expenses of $1,976. Excluding the impact of currency translation, prior year China investigation expenses and restructuring costs, income from operations decreased 55.9%.

Sensors Segment

Results of Operations

The following table compares results of operations for Sensors, separately identifying the estimated impact of currency translation and restructuring costs incurred in fiscal year 2018.



Revenue increased by 11.5% during the three months ended December 30, 2017 primarily driven by strong demand in the Sensors position sector, continued momentum from new revenue opportunities in the Sensors test sector, and the favorable impact of currency translation, partially offset by continued weakness in the Sensors industrial sector. Excluding the impact of currency translation, revenue increased 8.7%.  


Gross profit increased by 45.7% and the gross margin rate increased 12.0 percentage points during the three months ended December 30, 2017 primarily due to the prior year fair value adjustment on acquired PCB inventory of $7,724, prior year non-recurring PCB acquisition integration expenses, leverage on increased revenue volume, the favorable impact of currency translation, and prior year restructuring costs. Excluding the impact of currency translation, the prior year fair value adjustment on acquired PCB inventory of $7,724, prior year non-recurring PCB acquisition integration expenses, and prior year restructuring costs, gross profit increased 9.1% and the gross margin rate increased 0.2 percentage points.


Selling and marketing expense for the three months ended December 30, 2017 increased by 6.5% primarily driven by increased compensation and commission expenses and the unfavorable impact of currency translation. Excluding the impact of currency translation, prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses, and restructuring costs incurred in both years, selling and marketing expense increased 5.3%.


General and administrative expense for the three months ended December 30, 2017 declined by 14.6% primarily driven by prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses of $1,503, prior year restructuring costs and a decrease in incentive compensation. Excluding the impact of currency translation, prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses and prior year restructuring costs, general and administrative expense decreased 0.5%.




Income (loss) from operations increased $12,314 in the three months ended December 30, 2017 primarily due to the prior year fair value adjustment on acquired PCB inventory of $7,724, prior year non-recurring PCB acquisition integration costs of $1,688, higher gross profit from leverage on increased revenue volume, and prior year restructuring costs of $563, partially offset by increased compensation expenses. Excluding the impact of currency translation, the prior year fair value adjustment on acquired PCB inventory, prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, income from operations increased 23.1%.

Cash Flow Comparison



Operating Activities

The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to a decrease in working capital associated with fluctuations in the timing of cash receipts for advanced payments from customers, payments received on accounts receivable and unbilled accounts receivable, payments for inventory and reduced payments for accounts payable. These were partially offset by an increase in other assets and liabilities primarily driven by an increase in income taxes payable, as well as an increase in net income offset by an decrease in deferred income taxes due to the remeasurement of our estimated deferred tax liabilities as a result of the Tax Act. 

Investing Activities

The decrease in cash used in investing activities was primarily due to the timing of investments in property and equipment in the current year. 

Financing Activities

The increase in cash used in financing activities was primarily due to the annual required excess cash flow payment on the tranche B term loan made in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, partially offset by borrowing on our revolving credit facility. 

Liquidity and Capital Resources

We had cash and cash equivalents of $94,071 as of December 30, 2017. Of this amount, $12,947 was located in North America, $30,442 in Europe and $50,682 in Asia. Repatriation of certain foreign earnings is restricted by local law. The North American balance was primarily invested in bank deposits. The balances in Europe and Asia were primarily invested in money market funds and bank deposits. In accordance with our investment policy, we place cash equivalent investments with issuers who have high-quality investment credit ratings. In addition, we limit the amount of investment exposure we have with any particular issuer. Our investment objectives are to preserve principal, maintain liquidity and achieve the best available return consistent with our primary objectives of safety and liquidity. As of December 30, 2017, we held no short-term investments. 

As of December 30, 2017, our capital structure was comprised of $64,098 in short-term debt, $393,381 in long-term debt and $461,580 in shareholders' equity. The Consolidated Balance Sheets also include $15,432 of unamortized debt issuance costs as of December 30, 2017. Total interest-bearing debt at December 30, 2017 was $457,479. On July 5, 2016, we entered into a credit agreement with a consortium of financial institutions (the Credit Agreement). The Credit Agreement provides for senior secured credit facilities consisting of a Revolving Credit Facility and a Term Facility. The maturity date of the Revolving Credit Facility is July 5, 2021 and the maturity date of the loans under the Term Facility is July 5, 2023, unless a term loan lender agrees to extend the maturity date pursuant to a loan modification agreement made in accordance with the terms of the Credit Agreement.

The Credit Agreement also requires mandatory prepayments on our Term Facility in certain circumstances, including a required prepayment of a certain percentage of our excess cash flow for each fiscal year, beginning with fiscal year 2017.

Under the Credit Agreement, we are subject to customary affirmative and negative covenants, including, among others, restrictions on our ability to incur debt, create liens, dispose of assets, make investments, loans, advances, guarantees and acquisitions, enter into transactions with affiliates, and enter into any restrictive agreements and customary events of default (including payment defaults, covenant defaults, change of control defaults and bankruptcy defaults). The Credit Agreement also contains financial covenants, including the ratio of consolidated total indebtedness to adjusted consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (Adjusted EBITDA), as defined in the Credit Agreement, as well as the ratio of Adjusted EBITDA to consolidated interest expense. These covenants restrict our ability to pay dividends and purchase outstanding shares of common stock. As of December 30, 2017 and September 30, 2017, we were in compliance with these financial covenants.

Shareholders' equity increased by $32,803 during the three months ended December 30, 2017 primarily due to $33,151 net income, $4,006 other comprehensive income and $1,515 stock-based compensation, partially offset by $5,337 dividends declared and $744 purchases and retirements of our common stock.

Off-balance Sheet Arrangements

As of December 30, 2017, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to investors. 

Critical Accounting Policies

The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP, which require us to make estimates and assumptions in certain circumstances that affect amounts reported. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions, giving due consideration to materiality, that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosures of any contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements. We regularly review our estimates and assumptions, which are based on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. For further information, see "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" under Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017.

Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements

Information regarding new accounting pronouncements is included in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 

Other Matters

Dividends

Our dividend policy is to maintain a payout ratio that allows dividends to increase in conjunction with the long-term growth of earnings per share, while sustaining dividends through economic cycles. Our dividend practice is to target, over time, a payout ratio of approximately 25% of net earnings per share. We have historically paid dividends to holders of our common stock on a 

quarterly basis. The declaration and payment of future dividends will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to, our earnings, financial condition, debt repayment obligations, business developments needs and regulatory consideration and are at the discretion of our Board of Directors. 

Forward-looking Statements

Statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q including, but not limited to, the discussion under Item 2, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, that are not statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the Act). In addition, certain statements in our future filings with the SEC, in press releases, and in oral and written statements made by us or with our approval that are not statements of historical fact constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Act. Examples of forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: (i) projections of revenue, ROIC, EBITDA, income or loss, earnings or loss per share, the payment or nonpayment of dividends, capital structure, the adequacy of our liquidity and reserves, the anticipated level of expenditures required and other statements concerning future financial performance; (ii) statements of our plans and objectives by our management or Board of Directors, including those relating to products or services, merger or acquisition activity and the potential impact of newly acquired businesses; (iii) statements of assumptions underlying such statements; (iv) statements regarding business relationships with vendors, customers or collaborators or statements relating to our order cancellation history, our ability to convert our backlog of undelivered orders into revenue, the timing of purchases, competitive advantages and growth in end markets; (v) statements regarding our ability to report additional operating segments, to raise capital in a timely manner or to compete acquisitions in the future; (vi) statements regarding products, their characteristics, fluctuations in the costs of raw materials for products, our geographic footprint, performance, sales potential or effect in the hands of customers; and (vii) statements regarding the estimated tax benefits we receive under the Tax Act and our expectations concerning recorded adjustments. Words such as "believes," "anticipates," "expects," "intends," "targeted," "should," "potential," "goals," "strategy," and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. 

Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those in such statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from those discussed in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those described in Item 1A of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017 and in Item 1A of Part II of this Current Report on Form 10-Q. The performance of our business and our securities may be adversely affected by these factors and by other factors common to other businesses and investments, or to the general economy. Forward-looking statements are qualified by some or all of these risk factors. Therefore, you should consider these forward-looking statements with caution and form your own critical and independent conclusions about the likely effect of these risk factors on our future performance. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which statements are made, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events or circumstances. Readers should carefully review the disclosures and the risk factors described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017 and other documents we file from time to time with the SEC, including our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. 

Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

Foreign Currency Exchange Risk

Approximately 70% of our revenue has historically been derived from customers outside of the U.S. Our international subsidiaries have functional currencies other than our U.S. dollar reporting currency and, occasionally, transact business in currencies other than their functional currencies. These non-functional currency transactions expose us to market risk on assets, liabilities and cash flows recognized on these transactions. 

The strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies decreases the value of foreign currency-denominated revenue and earnings when translated into U.S. dollars resulting in an unfavorable currency translation impact on revenue and earnings. Conversely, a weakening of the U.S. dollar increases the value of foreign currency-denominated revenue and earnings resulting in a favorable currency translation impact on revenue and earnings. 

A hypothetical 10% appreciation or depreciation in foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar, assuming all other variables are held constant, would result in an increase or decrease in revenue of approximately $6,832 for the three months ended December 30, 2017. 

We have operational procedures to mitigate these non-functional currency exposures. We also utilize foreign currency exchange contracts to exchange currencies at set exchange rates on future dates to offset expected gains or losses on specifically identified exposures. 

Mark-to-market gains and losses on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges in our currency hedging program are recorded within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. We recognize gains and losses associated with the fair value of cash flow hedges at the time a gain or loss is recognized on the hedged exposure in the Consolidated Statements of Income or at the time the cash flow hedge is determined to be ineffective. The associated mark-to-market gains and losses are reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to the same line item in the Consolidated Statements of Income in which the underlying hedged transaction is reported. Net gains and losses on foreign currency transactions, included in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Income, were net losses of $392 and $667 in the three months ended December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, respectively. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on our cash flow hedge currency exchange contracts. 

Interest Rates

We are directly exposed to changes in market interest rates on cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and long-term debt, and are indirectly exposed to the impact of market interest rates on overall business activity. 

On floating-rate investments, increases and decreases in market interest rates will increase or decrease future interest income, respectively. On floating-rate debt, increases or decreases in market interest rates will increase or decrease future interest expense, respectively. On fixed-rate investments, increases or decreases in market interest rates do not impact future interest income but may decrease or increase the fair market value of the investments, respectively. On fixed-rate debt, increases or decreases in market interest rates do not impact future interest expense but may decrease or increase the fair market value of the debt, respectively.

As of December 30, 2017, we had cash and cash equivalents of $94,071, some of which was invested in interest-bearing bank deposits or money market funds. The interest-bearing bank deposits and money market funds have interest rates that reset every 1 to 89 days and generate interest income that will vary based on changes in short-term interest rates. A hypothetical decrease of 100 basis points in market interest rates, assuming all other variables were held constant, would decrease interest income by approximately $68 for the three months ended December 30, 2017.

Secured floating rate credit facilities require interest payments to be calculated at a floating rate and are therefore impacted by increases or decreases in market interest rates. We have swapped a portion of our floating-rate debt to a fixed-rate such that the interest expense on this debt will not vary with changes in short-term interest rates. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for information on our interest rate swaps. A hypothetical increase of 100 basis points in floating interest rates, assuming all other variables were held constant, would result in an approximately $1,728 increase in future annual interest expense.

Item 4. Controls and Procedures

Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, have conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act)), as of December 30, 2017. Based on that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of December 30, 2017, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective.

There were no changes in the Company's internal control over financial reporting during the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial reporting.

PART II – OTHER INFORMATION

Item 1. Legal Proceedings

We are or may be involved in various legal proceedings from time-to-time arising from the normal course of business. We are not presently a party to any litigation the outcome of which we believe, if determined adversely to us, would individually or taken together have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flows or financial condition.

Item 1A. Risk Factors

A discussion of our risk factors can be found in Item 1A of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017. The information below includes additional risks relating to the enactment of U.S. federal income tax legislation, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, on December 22, 2017. The risks described below and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K are not the only risks we face. Additional risks not currently known to us, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, may also adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations in future periods.

The final impacts of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act could be materially different from our current estimates.

The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act) was signed into law on December 22, 2017. The new law made numerous changes to U.S. federal corporate tax law and is expected to reduce our effective tax rate for fiscal year 2018 and future periods. Effective January 1, 2018, the Tax Act lowers the U.S. corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% and prompts various other changes to U.S. federal corporate tax law, including the establishment of a territorial-style system for taxing foreign-source income of domestic multinational corporations. The tax benefit recorded for the three months ended December 30, 2017 involves significant judgment and assumptions as to the impact of the Tax Act. Our estimated impact of the new law is based on management's current knowledge and assumptions. Recognized impacts could be materially different from current estimates based on our actual results in fiscal year 2018. We expect to record any adjustments in the next year in accordance with the guidance provided in the SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, and these adjustments could be material. The full impact of the Tax Act on our business, operations and financial statements cannot be predicted at this time, and we make no assurances in this regard. 

Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds


The following table presents repurchases of our equity securities we made during the fiscal quarter ended December 30, 2017. 


We purchase common stock from time-to-time to mitigate dilution related to new shares issued as equity for employee compensation such as stock options, restricted stock units, performance restricted stock units and employee stock purchase plan activity, as well as to return to shareholders capital not immediately required to fund ongoing operations. 

Share Purchase Plan

Our Board of Directors approved, and on February 11, 2011 announced, a 2,000 share purchase authorization. Authority over pricing and timing under the authorization has been delegated to management. The share purchase authorization has no expiration date. We made no share purchases during the first quarter of fiscal year 2018. As of December 30, 2017, there were 438 shares available for purchase under the existing authorization.

Capped Calls

In connection with the pricing of the TEUs sold in our public offering in fiscal year 2016, we purchased capped calls from third party banking institutions (Capped Calls) for $7,935. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, we did not settle any of the Capped Calls. As of December 30, 2017 the range of shares of our common stock to be received under the outstanding Capped Calls was 0 to 293 shares, subject to market conditions. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.

Item 6. Exhibits


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


