Document   

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION



[X]QUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

 For the quarterly period ended December 29, 2018

OR 

[ ]TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934


Commission file number 1-34192 

MAXIM INTEGRATED PRODUCTS, INC.


Delaware

 (State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Organization)  




San Jose, California 95134




Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. YES [x] NO [ ]

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). YES [x] NO [ ]



If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revisited financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. [ ]


YES [ ] NO [x]

As of January 24, 2019 there were 273,398,340 shares of Common Stock, par value $.001 per share, of the registrant outstanding. 

MAXIM INTEGRATED PRODUCTS, INC.

INDEX



PART I. FINANCIAL INFORMATION

ITEM 1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)

MAXIM INTEGRATED PRODUCTS, INC.

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.


MAXIM INTEGRATED PRODUCTS, INC.

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME



See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.


MAXIM INTEGRATED PRODUCTS, INC.

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)



See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.


MAXIM INTEGRATED PRODUCTS, INC.

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY 





See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.


MAXIM INTEGRATED PRODUCTS, INC.

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY 



See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


MAXIM INTEGRATED PRODUCTS, INC.

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.


MAXIM INTEGRATED PRODUCTS, INC.

NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of Maxim Integrated Products, Inc. and all of its majority-owned subsidiaries (collectively, the “Company” or “Maxim Integrated”) included herein have been prepared by the Company pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles of the United States of America (“GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted pursuant to applicable rules and regulations. In the opinion of management, all adjustments of a normal recurring nature which were considered necessary for fair statement have been included. The year-end condensed consolidated balance sheet data were derived from audited consolidated financial statements but do not include all disclosures required by GAAP. The results of operations for the six months ended December 29, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the entire year. These condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018. 

The Company has a 52-to-53-week fiscal year that ends on the last Saturday in June. Accordingly, every fifth or sixth fiscal year will be a 53-week fiscal year. Fiscal year 2018 was a 53-week fiscal year and fiscal year 2019 is a 52-week fiscal year. The second quarter of fiscal year 2019 was a 13-week quarter and the second quarter of fiscal year 2018 was a 14-week quarter.


Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements


In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standard Update ("ASU") 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606). This standard provides a single set of guidelines for revenue recognition to be used across all industries. Under the new standard, revenue is recognized when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. In addition, the new standard requires reporting companies to disclose the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. 

On July 1, 2018, the Company adopted Topic 606 and related amendments (ASU 2015-14, Deferral of the Effective Date; ASU 2016-08, Principal versus Agent Considerations; ASU 2016-10, Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing, ASU 2016-12, Narrow-Scope Improvements and Practical Expedients and ASU 2016-20, Technical Corrections and Improvements to Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers) using the modified retrospective method applied to all contracts that are not completed at the date of initial application (i.e., July 1, 2018). Results for reporting periods beginning after July 1, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with historic accounting standards under Topic 605. 

There was no impact on the opening retained earnings as of July 1, 2018 due to the adoption of Topic 606. However, in conjunction with the adoption of the new standard, the Company recorded a reclassification of accrued revenue reserves for price adjustments and other revenue reserves from accounts receivable, net to price adjustment and other revenue reserves within current liabilities. 




Balance Sheet Reclassification

Under Topic 605, the gross amount of accrued revenue reserves for price adjustments and other revenue reserves of $141.7 million was included within accounts receivable, net as of June 30, 2018. Subsequent to the adoption of Topic 606, such balances are presented on a gross basis as accrued price adjustments and other revenue reserves of $141.7 million, which is presented in the price adjustment and other revenue reserves balance sheet caption.

The adoption of Topic 606 has no impact on the total cash flows from operating, investing, or financing activities on the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.



Practical Expedients and Elections

•The Company does not disclose the value of unsatisfied performance obligations for (i) contracts with an original expected length of one year or less and (ii) contracts for which the Company recognizes revenue at the amount to which it has the right to invoice for services performed.

•The Company has elected to account for shipping and handling costs as fulfillment costs after the customer obtains control of the goods.

•The Company has elected to exclude sales, use, value added, and some excise taxes, if applicable, from the measurement of the transaction price. The transaction price excludes sales and other similar taxes.

Updated Revenue Recognition Policy

The Company recognizes revenue for sales to direct customers and distribution customers ("distributors") when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services in an amount that reflects the consideration which the Company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. The transaction price is calculated as selling price net of variable considerations, such as distributor price adjustments. In determining the transaction price, the Company evaluates whether the price is subject to refund or adjustment to determine the net consideration to which it is expected to be entitled. The transaction price does not include amounts collected on behalf of another party, such as sales taxes or value added tax. The Company elected the practical expedient to not disclose the value of unsatisfied performance obligations for (i) contracts with an original expected length of one year or less and (ii) contracts for which it recognizes revenue at the amount to which it has the right to invoice for services performed. The Company estimates returns for sales to direct customers and distributors based on historical return rates applied against current period gross revenue. Specific customer returns and allowances are considered within this estimate. 

Accounts receivable from direct customers and distributors are recognized and inventory is relieved upon shipment as title to inventories generally transfers upon shipment, at which point the Company has a legally enforceable right to collection under normal terms. Accounts receivable related to consigned inventory is recognized when the customer takes title to such inventory from its consigned location, at which point inventory is relieved, title transfers, and the Company has a legally enforceable right to collection under the terms of the agreement with the related customers. Customers are generally required to pay for products and services within the Company’s standard terms, which is net 30 days from the date of invoice. The Company does not have any significant financing components greater than one year. 

The Company estimates potential future returns and sales allowances related to current period product revenue. Management analyzes historical returns, changes in customer demand and acceptance of products when evaluating the adequacy of returns and sales allowances. Estimates made may differ from actual returns and sales allowances. These differences may materially impact reported revenue and amounts ultimately collected on accounts receivable. Historically, such differences have not been material.


Distributor price adjustments are estimated based on the Company's historical experience rates and also considering economic conditions and contractual terms. To date, actual distributor claims activity has been materially consistent with the estimates that the Company has made based on its historical rates.












SEC Disclosure Update and Simplification. In August 2018, the SEC adopted a final rule under SEC Release No. 33-10532, Disclosure Update and Simplification, which amends certain disclosure requirements that were redundant and outdated. The rule also requires registrants to include in their interim financial statements a reconciliation of changes in stockholders' equity in the notes or as a separate statement. The final rule was effective on November 5, 2018. The Company has adopted the final rule as of December 29, 2018, and has included a reconciliation of the changes in stockholders' equity in this Form 10-Q. 


In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which supersedes the lease accounting requirements in Topic 840. ASU 2016-02 requires a dual approach for lessee accounting under which a lessee would account for leases as finance leases or operating leases. Both finance leases and operating leases will result in the lessee recognizing a right-of-use asset and a corresponding lease liability. For finance leases, the lessee would recognize interest expense and amortization of the right-of-use asset, and for operating leases, the lessee would recognize a straight-line total lease expense. The guidance also requires qualitative and specific quantitative disclosures to supplement the amounts recorded in the financial statements so that users can understand more about the nature of an entity’s leasing activities, including significant judgments and changes in judgments. This guidance is effective beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 on a modified retrospective approach. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact of this standard on its consolidated financial statements and expects that there will be an increase in assets and liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at adoption due to the recognition of right-of-use assets and related lease liabilities.












Level 1 - Quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.

The Company’s Level 1 assets consist of money market funds.

Level 2 - Observable inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the asset or liability. 

The Company’s Level 2 assets and liabilities consist of U.S. Treasury securities, agency securities, corporate debt securities, certificates of deposit, commercial paper and foreign currency forward contracts that are valued using quoted market prices or are determined using a yield curve model based on current market rates.

Level 3 - Unobservable inputs to the valuation methodology that are significant to the measurement of the fair value of the assets or liabilities.

The Company's Level 3 assets and liabilities consist of acquisition related contingent consideration liabilities.




During the six months ended December 29, 2018 and the year ended June 30, 2018, there were no transfers in or out of Level 3 from other levels in the fair value hierarchy.

There were no assets or liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis as of December 29, 2018 and June 30, 2018 other than impairments of long-lived assets. The Company uses various inputs to evaluate investments in privately held companies, including valuations of recent financing events as well as other relevant information regarding the performance of the issuer. During the three and six months ended December 29, 2018, the Company recorded $0.8 million, in impairment of long-lived assets in the Company's Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018, the Company recorded $0.9 million in impairment of long-lived assets in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Income. 



Short-term investments



In the three and six months ended December 29, 2018 and June 30, 2018, the Company did not recognize any impairment charges on short-term investments. All available-for-sale investments have maturity dates between December 29, 2018 and March 12, 2021.

The Company invests in various financial instruments including U.S. Treasury securities, corporate debt securities, commercial paper, and certificates of deposit which include instruments issued or managed by industrial, financial, and utility institutions and U.S. Treasury securities which include U.S. government Treasury bills and Treasury notes.

Derivative instruments and hedging activities

The Company incurs expenditures denominated in non-U.S. currencies, primarily the Philippine Peso and the Thai Baht associated with the Company's manufacturing activities in the Philippines and Thailand, respectively, and the European Euro, Indian Rupee, Japanese Yen, Taiwan New Dollar, South Korean Won, Chinese Yuan and Canadian Dollar, for sales offices and research and development activities undertaken outside of the U.S.

The Company has established a program that primarily utilizes foreign currency forward contracts to offset the risks associated with the effects of certain foreign currency exposures. The Company does not use these foreign currency forward contracts for trading purposes.

Derivatives designated as cash flow hedging instruments 

The Company designates certain forward contracts as hedging instruments pursuant to Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 815, Derivatives and Hedging (“ASC 815”). As of December 29, 2018 and June 30, 2018, the notional amounts of the forward contracts the Company held to purchase international currencies were $42.2 million and $49.7 million, respectively, and the notional amounts of forward contracts the Company held to sell international currencies were $0.3 million and $1.2 million, respectively. 

Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments

As of December 29, 2018 and June 30, 2018, the notional amounts of the forward contracts the Company held to purchase international currencies were $19.8 million and $21.1 million, respectively, and the notional amounts of forward contracts the Company held to sell international currencies were $19.0 million and $21.3 million, respectively. The fair values of the Company's outstanding foreign currency forward contracts and gain (loss) included in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income were not material for the three and six months ended December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017. 


Effect of hedge accounting on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income



Outstanding debt obligations



On June 15, 2017, the Company completed a public offering of $500 million aggregate principal amount of the Company's 3.45% senior unsecured and unsubordinated notes due in June 2027 (“2027 Notes”), with an effective interest rate of 3.5%. Interest on the 2027 Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on June 15 and December 15 of each year, commencing on December 15, 2017. The net proceeds of this offering were approximately $495.2 million, after issuing at a discount and deducting paid expenses.

On November 21, 2013, the Company completed a public offering of $500 million aggregate principal amount of the Company’s 2.5% coupon senior unsecured and unsubordinated notes due in November 2018 (“2018 Notes”), with an effective interest rate of 2.6%. Interest on the 2018 Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on May 15 and November 15 of each year, commencing on May 15, 2014. The net proceeds of this offering were approximately $494.5 million, after issuing at a discount and deducting paid expenses. In November of 2018, the Company repaid the entire $500 million in principal and any outstanding interest, related to these outstanding notes. 

On March 18, 2013, the Company completed a public offering of $500 million aggregate principal amount of the Company’s 3.375% senior unsecured and unsubordinated notes due in March 2023 (“2023 Notes”), with an effective interest rate of 3.5%. Interest on the 2023 Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on March 15 and September 15 of each year. The net proceeds of this offering were approximately $490.0 million, after issuing at a discount and deducting paid expenses.

The debt indentures that govern the 2027 Notes and the 2023 Notes include covenants that limit the Company's ability to grant liens on its facilities and to enter into sale and leaseback transactions, which could limit the Company's ability to secure additional debt funding in the future. In circumstances involving a change of control of the Company followed by a downgrade of the rating of the 2027 Notes or the 2023 Notes, the Company would be required to make an offer to repurchase the affected notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of such notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest. 


The Company accounts for all the notes above based on their amortized cost. The discount and expenses are being amortized to Interest and other income (expense), net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income over the life of the notes. The interest expense is recorded in Interest and other income (expense), net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income. Amortized discount and expenses, as well as interest expense associated with the notes, were $11.2 million and $12.4 million during the three months ended December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017, respectively. Amortized discount and expenses, as well as interest expense associated with the notes, were $23.6 million and $24.7 million, respectively, during the six months ended December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017.

The estimated fair value of the Company’s outstanding debt obligations was approximately $955 million as of December 29, 2018. The estimated fair value of the debt is based primarily on observable market inputs and is a Level 2 measurement.

The Company recorded interest expense of $11.7 million and $12.5 million during the three months ended December 29, 2018, and December 30, 2017, respectively. The Company recorded interest expense of $24.6 million and $25.1 million during the six months ended December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017, respectively. 

Credit Facility

Revolving credit facility

As of December 29, 2018, the Company had access to a $350 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility with certain institutional lenders that expires on June 27, 2019. The facility fee is at a rate per annum that varies based on the Company’s index debt rating and any advances under the credit agreement will accrue interest at a base rate plus a margin based on the Company’s index debt rating. The credit agreement required the Company to comply with certain covenants, including a requirement that the Company maintain a ratio of debt to EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization) of not more than 3 to 1 and a minimum interest coverage ratio (EBITDA divided by interest expense) greater than 3.5 to 1. As of December 29, 2018, the Company had not borrowed any amounts from this credit facility and was in compliance with all debt covenants. Effective January 22, 2019, the Company terminated this revolving credit facility. 

Other Financial Instruments

For the balance of the Company’s financial instruments, cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and other accrued liabilities, the carrying amounts approximate fair value due to their short maturities. 


At December 29, 2018, the Company had one stock incentive plan, the Company's 1996 Stock Incentive Plan (the “1996 Plan”) and one employee stock purchase plan, the 2008 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the “2008 ESPP”). The 1996 Plan was adopted by the board of directors to provide the grant of incentive stock options, non-statutory stock options, restricted stock units (“RSUs”), and market stock units (“MSUs”) to employees, directors, and consultants. 

Pursuant to the 1996 Plan, the exercise price for incentive stock options and non-statutory stock options is determined to be the fair market value of the underlying shares on the date of grant. Options typically vest ratably over a four-year period measured from the date of grant. Options generally expire no later than seven years after the date of grant, subject to earlier termination upon an optionee's cessation of employment or service. 

RSUs granted to employees typically vest ratably over a four-year period and are converted into shares of the Company's common stock upon vesting, subject to the employee's continued service to the Company over that period. RSUs granted after August 2017 will continue to vest post-employment at the Company for certain individuals satisfying specific eligibility requirements. 

MSUs granted to employees typically vest over a four-year cliff period and are converted into shares of the Company's common stock upon vesting, subject to the employee's continued service to the Company over that period. The number of shares that are released at the end of the performance period can range from zero to a maximum cap depending on the Company's performance. MSUs granted after August 2017 will continue to vest post-employment at the Company for certain individuals satisfying specific eligibility requirements.





The expenses included in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income for RSUs include expenses related to MSUs of $2.9 million and $2.2 million for the three months ended December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017, respectively and $5.3 million and $3.6 million for the six months ended December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017, respectively. 

Stock Options

The fair value of options granted to employees under the 1996 Plan is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option valuation model. 

There were no stock options granted in the three and six months ended December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017. 





As of December 29, 2018, there was no unrecognized stock compensation from unvested stock options.

Restricted Stock Units and Other Awards

The fair value of RSUs and other awards under the Company’s 1996 Plan is estimated using the value of the Company’s common stock on the date of grant, reduced by the present value of dividends expected to be paid on the Company’s common stock prior to vesting. The Company also estimates forfeitures at the time of grant and makes revisions to forfeitures on a quarterly basis. 

The weighted-average fair value of RSUs and other awards granted was $50.90 and $50.36 per share for the three months ended December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017, respectively, and 54.71 and $42.41 per share for the six months ended December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017, respectively. 




The Company withheld shares totaling $5.9 million and $13.4 million, respectively, in value as a result of employee withholding taxes based on the value of RSUs on vesting date for the three and six months ended December 29, 2018. Total payments for employees’ tax obligations to taxing authorities are reflected as financing activities within the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.

As of December 29, 2018, there was $170.4 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to 5.7 million unvested RSUs and other awards, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of approximately 2.9 years. 

Market Stock Units (MSUs)



The weighted-average fair value of MSUs granted was $75.48 and $51.03 per share for the six months ended December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017, respectively. 




As of December 29, 2018, there was $35.0 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to 1.1 million unvested MSUs, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of approximately 2.9 years. 

Employee Stock Purchase Plan

Employees are granted rights to acquire common stock under the 2008 ESPP.



As of December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017, there was $8.6 million and $6.5 million, respectively, of unrecognized compensation expense related to the 2008 ESPP.



Basic earnings (loss) per share are computed using the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period. For purposes of computing basic earnings (loss) per share, the weighted average number of outstanding shares of common stock excludes unvested RSUs and other awards as well as MSUs. Diluted earnings (loss) per share incorporates the incremental shares issuable upon the assumed exercise of stock options, assumed release of unvested RSUs and other awards as well as MSUs, and assumed issuance of common stock under the 2008 ESPP using the treasury stock method.



For the three months ended December 30, 2017 and December 29, 2018, there were approximately 4.8 million and zero stock awards, respectively, that were determined to be anti-dilutive and therefore excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share. For the six months ended December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017, no stock awards were determined to be anti-dilutive and therefore none were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share. 



The Company currently has one operating segment and reportable segment. In accordance with ASC No. 280, Segment Reporting (“ASC 280”), the Company considers operating segments to be components of the Company’s business for which separate financial information is available that is evaluated regularly by the Company’s Chief Operating Decision Maker in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. The Chief Operating Decision Maker for the Company was assessed and determined to be the CEO. The CEO reviews financial information presented on a consolidated basis for purposes of allocating resources and evaluating financial performance. Accordingly, the Company has determined that it has a single operating and reportable segment.

Enterprise-wide information is provided in accordance with ASC 280. Geographical revenue information is based on customers’ ship-to location. Long-lived assets consist of property, plant and equipment. Property, plant and equipment information is based on the physical location of the assets at the end of each fiscal year.












In the three and six months ended December 29, 2018, the Company recorded an income tax provision of $50.8 million and $87.0 million, respectively, compared to $272.9 million and $299.4 million for the three and six months ended December 30, 2017, respectively. The Company’s effective tax rate for the three and six months ended December 29, 2018 was 27.8% and 20.9%, respectively, compared to the 137.9% and 79.0% for the three and six months ended December 30, 2017, respectively. 

On December 22, 2017 legislation, commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Act”), was enacted. The Act included a one-time tax on accumulated unremitted earnings of the Company's foreign subsidiaries (“Transition Tax”). SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 allowed the use of provisional amounts (reasonable estimates) if accounting for the income tax effects of the Act was not completed. Provisional amounts must be adjusted within a one-year measurement period from the enactment date of the Act. In the second quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company recorded a discrete $236.9 million provisional Transition Tax charge. During the measurement period, the Company gathered additional information and analyzed available guidance to more precisely compute the amount of the Transition Tax. In the second quarter of fiscal year 2019 the Company completed this work and recorded a discrete $22.1 million measurement period adjustment for the Transition Tax, which increased the Company’s effective tax rate for the three and six months ended December 29, 2018 by 12.1% and 5.3%, respectively. As of the end of the second quarter of fiscal year 2019, the accounting for income tax effects of the Act has been completed.

The Act reduced the federal statutory tax rate from 35% to 21%, effective January 1, 2018, which resulted in a fiscal year 2018 federal statutory tax rate of 28.1% for the Company (average of a 35% rate for the first half of fiscal year 2018 and a 21% rate for the second half of fiscal year 2018). The Company’s federal statutory tax rate for fiscal year 2019 is 21%. In the second quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company recorded a $13.7 million discrete charge to remeasure deferred tax assets and liabilities as of the enactment date of the Act to reflect the federal statutory tax rate reductions.

The Act included Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (“GILTI”) provisions, which impact the Company in fiscal year 2019. The GILTI provisions effectively subject income earned by the Company’s foreign subsidiaries to current U.S. tax at a rate of 10.5%, less foreign tax credits. Under U.S. GAAP, the Company can make an accounting policy election to recognize deferred taxes for temporary differences expected to impact GILTI in future years or provide for tax expense related to GILTI in the year the tax is incurred as a period expense. The Company has elected to treat tax generated by the GILTI provisions as a period expense.

The Company’s federal statutory tax rate for fiscal year 2019 is 21%. The Company’s effective tax rate for the three months ended December 29, 2018 was higher than the statutory rate primarily due to a $22.1 million discrete charge for the Transition Tax, tax generated by the GILTI provisions, and a $4.9 million discrete charge for interest accruals for unrecognized tax benefits, partially offset by earnings of foreign subsidiaries, generated primarily by the Company's international operations managed in Ireland, that were taxed at lower rates.

The Company’s effective tax rate for the six months ended December 29, 2018 was lower than the statutory rate primarily due to earnings of foreign subsidiaries, generated primarily by the Company's international operations managed in Ireland, that were taxed at lower rates, partially offset by a $22.1 million discrete charge for the Transition Tax, tax generated by the GILTI provisions, and a $9.4 million discrete charge for interest accruals for unrecognized tax benefits.


The Company’s federal statutory tax rate for fiscal year 2018 was 28.1%. The Company’s effective tax rate for the three and six months ended December 30, 2017 was higher than the statutory rate primarily due to a $236.9 million discrete provisional charge for the Transition Tax, a $13.7 million discrete charge to remeasure deferred taxes as of the enactment date of the Act, $4.2 million and $8 million discrete charges for interest accruals for unrecognized tax benefits in the three and six months ended December 30, 2017, respectively, partially offset by earnings of foreign subsidiaries, generated primarily by the Company's international operations managed in Ireland, that were taxed at lower rates.

The Company engages in continuous discussions and negotiations with tax authorities regarding tax matters in various jurisdictions. It is reasonably possible that the balance of gross unrecognized tax benefits, including accrued interest and penalties, could decrease up to $444.0 million within the next twelve months due to the completion of federal tax audits, including any administrative appeals. The $444.0 million primarily relates to matters involving federal taxation of cross-border transactions.

The Company’s federal corporate income tax returns are audited on a recurring basis by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”). The IRS concluded its field examination of the Company’s federal corporate income tax returns for fiscal years 2009 through 2011 and issued an IRS Revenue Agent's Report in July 2016 that included proposed adjustments for transfer pricing issues related to cost sharing and buy-in license payments for the use of intangible property by one of the Company’s international subsidiaries. The Company disagreed with the proposed transfer pricing adjustments and related penalties, and in September 2016, the Company filed a protest to challenge the proposed adjustments and request a conference with the Appeals Office of the IRS. In May 2018, a preliminary understanding was reached with the IRS regarding the contested issues for the audit and post-audit years, which the Company expects may be finalized in fiscal year 2019 with the execution of a closing agreement. In June 2018, the Company made advance payments for audit and post-audit years tax of $140.7 million and interest of $37.4 million. These payments will reduce the accrual of interest on audit and post-audit years tax deficiencies that would be owed if the preliminary understanding is finalized. The Company’s reserves for unrecognized tax benefits are sufficient to cover the audit and post-audit years tax deficiencies that would be owed as a result of the preliminary understanding. In fiscal year 2017, the IRS commenced an audit of the Company’s federal corporate income tax returns for fiscal years 2012 through 2014, which is ongoing. In the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, the Company was notified that the IRS will commence an audit of the Company's federal corporate income tax returns for fiscal years 2015 through 2016.


Legal Proceedings

The Company is party or subject to various legal proceedings and claims, either asserted or unasserted, which arise in the ordinary course of business, including proceedings and claims that relate to intellectual property matters. While the outcome of these matters cannot be predicted with certainty, the Company does not believe that the outcome of any of these matters, individually or in the aggregate, will result in losses that are materially in excess of amounts already recognized or reserved, if any. 

Indemnification

The Company indemnifies certain customers, distributors, suppliers and subcontractors for attorney fees, damages and costs awarded against such parties in certain circumstances in which the Company's products are alleged to infringe third party intellectual property rights, including patents, registered trademarks or copyrights. The terms of the Company's indemnification obligations are generally perpetual from the effective date of the agreement. In certain cases, there are limits on and exceptions to the Company's potential liability for indemnification relating to intellectual property infringement claims.

Pursuant to the Company's charter documents and separate written indemnification agreements, the Company has certain indemnification obligations to its current officers, employees and directors, as well as certain former officers and directors.


On July 20, 2017, the board of directors of the Company authorized the repurchase of up to $1 billion of the Company's common stock. The stock repurchase authorization did not have an expiration date and the pace of repurchase activity depended on factors such as current stock price, levels of cash generation from operations, cash requirements, and other factors. All prior repurchase authorizations by the Company’s board of directors for the repurchase of common stock were cancelled and superseded by this repurchase authorization.

On October 30, 2018, the board of directors of the Company authorized the repurchase of up to $1.5 billion of the Company’s common stock. The stock repurchase authorization does not have an expiration date and the pace of repurchase activity will depend 


on factors such as current stock price, levels of cash generation from operations, cash requirements, and other factors. All prior repurchase authorizations by the Company’s board of directors for the repurchase of common stock were cancelled and superseded by this repurchase authorization.

During the six months ended December 29, 2018, the Company repurchased approximately 5.8 million shares of its common stock for $320.1 million. As of December 29, 2018, the Company had remaining authorization of $1.3 billion for future share repurchases. The number of shares to be repurchased and the timing of such repurchases will be based on several factors, including the price of the Company’s common stock and general market and business conditions.


On January 26, 2018, the Company acquired a privately-held corporation specializing in the development of high-performance USB and video extension technology. Total cash consideration paid in connection with this acquisition was $57.8 million, net of cash acquired. The Company also agreed to pay up to an additional $16.0 million if the acquired business achieves certain financial milestones for the annual period ended August 31, 2018 and annual period ending August 31, 2019. Out of the $16.0 million, $8.0 million was paid during the six months ended December 29, 2018. The acquired assets included $26.0 million of developed technology and $10.5 million of other intangible assets. The Company also recorded $41.9 million of goodwill in connection with this acquisition. The goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes.


Goodwill

The Company monitors the recoverability of goodwill recorded in connection with acquisitions, by reporting unit, annually, or more often if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. 

There were no changes to goodwill for the six months ended December 29, 2018.

No indicators or instances of impairment were identified in the six months and fiscal year ended December 29, 2018 and June 30, 2018, respectively.








ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Maxim Integrated Products, Inc. (“Maxim Integrated” or the “Company” and also referred to as “we,” “our” or “us”) disclaims any duty to and undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information relating to existing conditions, future events or otherwise or to release publicly the results of any future revisions it may make to forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by federal securities laws. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Readers should carefully review future reports and documents that the Company files with or furnishes to the SEC from time to time, such as its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and any Current Reports on Form 8-K.

Overview of Business

Maxim Integrated is incorporated in the state of Delaware. Maxim Integrated designs, develops, manufactures and markets a broad range of linear and mixed-signal integrated circuits, commonly referred to as analog circuits, for a large number of geographically diverse customers. We also provide a range of high-frequency process technologies and capabilities that can be used in custom designs. The analog market is fragmented and characterized by many diverse applications, a great number of product variations and, with respect to many circuit types, relatively long product life cycles. We are a global company with a wafer manufacturing facility in the U.S., testing facilities in the Philippines and Thailand, and sales and circuit design offices around the world. We also utilize third party foundries for manufacturing of our products. The major end-markets in which our products are sold are the Automotive, Communications and Data Center, Computing, Consumer and Industrial markets.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

The methods, estimates, and judgments we use in applying our most critical accounting policies have a significant impact on the results we report in our financial statements. The Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) has defined the most critical accounting policies as the ones that are most important to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations, and that require us to make our most difficult and subjective accounting judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, our most critical accounting policies include revenue recognition, which impacts the recording of net revenues; valuation of inventories, which impacts costs of goods sold and gross margins; the assessment of recoverability of long-lived assets, which impacts impairment of long-lived assets; assessment of recoverability of intangible assets and goodwill, which impacts impairment of goodwill and intangible assets; accounting for income taxes, which 


impacts the income tax provision; and assessment of litigation and contingencies, which impacts charges recorded in cost of goods sold, selling, general and administrative expenses and income taxes. These policies and the estimates and judgments involved are discussed further in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018. We have other significant accounting policies that either do not generally require estimates and judgments that are as difficult or subjective, or it is less likely that such accounting policies would have a material impact on our reported results of operations for a given period. 

Except for the accounting policies and estimates outlined under Part I, Item 1. Financial Statements - Note 2, there have been no material changes during the six months ended December 29, 2018 to the items that we disclosed as our critical accounting policies and estimates in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018. 


RESULTS OF OPERATIONS





Net Revenues

Net revenues were $576.9 million and $622.6 million for the three months ended December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017, respectively. Revenue from industrial products are down by 14%, mainly due to a decline in shipments of control and automation products. Revenue from communications and data center products are down by 20%, due to generally lower shipments of server, basestation and data center products. Revenue from automotive products are up by 3%, driven by higher demand for auto powertrain, and auto safety and security products. In addition, the decrease in revenue was partially driven by a one-time incremental $22.0 million of revenue recognized as a result of the sell-in accounting revenue transition during the second quarter of fiscal 2018. Also, the decrease in revenue was partially driven by the 13-week second quarter of fiscal year 2019 compared to the 14-week second quarter of fiscal year 2018. 

Net revenues were $1,215.4 million and $1,198.3 million for the six months ended December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017, respectively. Revenue from automotive products are up by 8%, driven by higher demand for auto powertrain, and auto safety and security products. Revenue from consumer products are up by 7%, driven by an overall higher demand for cell phones, handheld computers, and wearable consumer products. Revenue from communications and data center products are down by 7% due to generally lower shipments of server and basestation products. 


During the three months ended December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017, approximately 89% and 87% of net revenues, respectively, were derived from customers outside of the United States. While less than 1.0% of our sales are denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate our risks on firm commitments and net monetary assets denominated in foreign currencies. The impact of changes in foreign exchange rates on our revenue and results of operations for the three months ended December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017 was immaterial.

Gross Margin 

Our gross margin percentages were 64.7% and 65.8% for the three months ended December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017, respectively. Our gross margin decreased by 1.1 percentage points, due to higher inventory reserves. 

Our gross margin percentages were 66.1% and 65.4% for the six months ended December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017, respectively. Our gross margin increased by 0.7 percentage points, due to lower intangible amortization, and certain one-time events, partially offset by higher inventory reserves.

Research and Development

Research and development expenses were $110.3 million and $115.9 million for the three months ended December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017, respectively, which represented 19.1% and 18.6% of net revenues for each respective period. The $5.6 million decrease was due to lower salaries and related personnel expenses. 

Research and development expenses were $223.0 million and $224.5 million for the six months ended December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017, respectively, which represented 18.3% and 18.7% of net revenues for each respective period. The $1.5 million decrease was due to lower salaries and related personnel expenses.

Selling, General and Administrative

Selling, general and administrative expenses were $77.9 million and $85.3 million for the three months ended December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017, respectively, which represented 13.5% and 13.7% of net revenues for each respective period. The $7.5 million decrease was due to lower salaries and related personnel expenses, as well as lower legal expenses.

Selling, general and administrative expenses were $159.4 million and $159.0 million for the six months ended December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017, respectively, which represented 13.1% and 13.3% of net revenues for each respective period. Selling, general and administrative expenses remained roughly flat year-over-year.

Severance and Restructuring Expenses

Severance and restructuring expenses were $1.2 million and $6.5 million for the three months ended December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017, respectively, which represented 0.2% and 1.0% of net revenues for each respective period. The $5.3 million decrease was primarily due to a decrease in restructuring activities.

Severance and restructuring expenses were $2.2 million and $12.0 million for the six months ended December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017, respectively, which represented 0.2% and 1.0% of net revenues for each respective period. The $9.8 million decrease was primarily due to a decrease in restructuring activities.

Provision for Income Taxes 

In the three and six months ended December 29, 2018, the Company recorded an income tax provision of $50.8 million and $87.0 million, respectively, compared to $272.9 million and $299.4 million for the three and six months ended December 30, 2017, respectively. The Company’s effective tax rate for the three and six months ended December 29, 2018 was 27.8% and 20.9%, respectively, compared to 137.9% and 79.0% for the three and six months ended December 30, 2017, respectively.

On December 22, 2017 legislation, commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Act”), was enacted. The Act included a one-time tax on accumulated unremitted earnings of our foreign subsidiaries (“Transition Tax”). SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 allowed the use of provisional amounts (reasonable estimates) if accounting for the income tax effects of the Act was not completed. Provisional amounts must be adjusted within a one-year measurement period from the enactment date of the Act. In the second quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company recorded a discrete $236.9 million provisional Transition Tax charge. During the measurement period the Company gathered additional information and analyzed available guidance to more precisely compute 


the amount of the Transition Tax. In the second quarter of fiscal year 2019, the Company completed this work and recorded a discrete $22.1 million measurement period adjustment for the Transition Tax, which increased the Company’s effective tax rate for the three and six months ended December 29, 2018 by 12.1% and 5.3%, respectively. As of the end of the second quarter of fiscal year 2019, the accounting for income tax effects of the Act has been completed.

The Act reduced the federal statutory tax rate from 35% to 21%, effective January 1, 2018, which resulted in a fiscal year 2018 federal statutory tax rate of 28.1% for the Company (average of a 35% rate for the first half of fiscal year 2018 and a 21% rate for the second half of fiscal year 2018). The Company’s federal statutory tax rate for fiscal year 2019 is 21%. In the second quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company recorded a $13.7 million discrete charge to remeasure deferred tax assets and liabilities as of the enactment date of the Act to reflect the federal statutory tax rate reductions.

The Act included Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (“GILTI”) provisions, which impact the Company in fiscal year 2019. The GILTI provisions effectively subject income earned by the Company’s foreign subsidiaries to current U.S. tax at a rate of 10.5%, less foreign tax credits. Under U.S. GAAP the Company can make an accounting policy election to recognize deferred taxes for temporary differences expected to impact GILTI in future years or provide for tax expense related to GILTI in the year the tax is incurred as a period expense. The Company has elected to treat tax generated by the GILTI provisions as a period expense.

The Company’s federal statutory tax rate for fiscal year 2019 is 21%. The Company’s effective tax rate for the three months ended December 29, 2018 was higher than the statutory rate primarily due to a $22.1 million discrete charge for the Transition Tax, tax generated by the GILTI provisions, and a $4.9 million discrete charge for interest accruals for unrecognized tax benefits, partially offset by earnings of foreign subsidiaries, generated primarily by the Company's international operations managed in Ireland, that were taxed at lower rates.

The Company’s effective tax rate for the six months ended December 29, 2018 was lower than the statutory rate primarily due to earnings of foreign subsidiaries, generated primarily by the Company's international operations managed in Ireland, that were taxed at lower rates, partially offset by a $22.1 million discrete charge for the Transition Tax, tax generated by the GILTI provisions, and a $9.4 million discrete charge for interest accruals for unrecognized tax benefits.

The Company’s federal statutory tax rate for fiscal year 2018 was 28.1%. The Company’s effective tax rate for the three and six months ended December 30, 2017 was higher than the statutory rate primarily due to a $236.9 million discrete provisional charge for the Transition Tax, a $13.7 million discrete charge to remeasure deferred taxes as of the enactment date of the Act, $4.2 million and $8.0 million discrete charges for interest accruals for unrecognized tax benefits in the three and six months ended December 30, 2017, respectively, partially offset by earnings of foreign subsidiaries, generated primarily by the Company's international operations managed in Ireland, that were taxed at lower rates.

BACKLOG

At December 29, 2018 and June 30, 2018, our current quarter backlog was approximately $372.3 million and $441.1 million, respectively. In backlog, we include orders with customer request dates within the next three months. As is customary in the semiconductor industry, these orders may be canceled in most cases without penalty to customers. Accordingly, we believe that our backlog is not a reliable measure of future revenues. All backlog numbers have been adjusted for estimated future distribution ship and debit pricing adjustments.

FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Financial Condition




Operating activities

Cash provided by operating activities is net income adjusted for certain non-cash items and changes in certain assets and liabilities.

Cash provided by operating activities was $431.4 million in the six months ended December 29, 2018, a decrease of $18.1 million compared with the six months ended December 30, 2017. This decrease was due to changes in working capital, partially offset by higher net income. 

Investing activities

Investing cash flows consist primarily of net investment purchases and maturities, and capital expenditures. 

Cash provided by investing activities was $496.5 million for the six months ended December 29, 2018, compared with cash used by investing activities of $731.2 million for the six months ended December 30, 2017, a change of $1,227.6 million. The change was due to lower purchases of and higher proceeds from maturity of available-for-sale securities, in order to provide funds to repay the November 2018 Notes. 

Financing activities

Financing cash flows consist primarily of debt issuance, repurchases of common stock, and payment of dividends to stockholders.

Net cash used in financing activities increased by approximately $731.6 million for the six months ended December 29, 2018 compared to the six months ended December 30, 2017. The increase was due to the repayment of the November 2018 Notes and repurchases of our common stock. 

Liquidity and Capital Resources

As of December 29, 2018, our available funds consisted of $2.0 billion in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. We anticipate that the available funds and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet cash and working capital requirements, including the anticipated level of capital expenditures, common stock repurchases, debt repayments and dividend payments for at least the next twelve months.

Available Borrowing Resources

We have access to a $350 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility that expires on June 27, 2019. As of December 29, 2018, we had not borrowed any amounts from this credit facility. Effective January 22, 2019, the Company terminated this revolving credit facility. 

Off-Balance-Sheet Arrangements

As of December 29, 2018, we did not have any material off-balance-sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K.

ITEM 3: QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

The Company’s market risk has not changed materially from the interest rate and foreign currency risks disclosed in Item 7A of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018.

The impact of inflation and changing prices on the Company’s net revenues and on operating income during the three and six months ended December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017 was not material.

ITEM 4: CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures 

Our management, with the participation of our chief executive officer (“CEO”) and our chief financial officer (“CFO”), evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) as of December 29, 2018. Our management, including the CEO and the CFO, has concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 29, 2018. The purpose of these controls 


and procedures is to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our CEO and our CFO, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures. 

Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting 

There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended December 29, 2018 that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect our internal control over financial reporting.

Inherent Limitations on the Effectiveness of Internal Controls 

A system of internal control over financial reporting is intended to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP, and no control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide absolute assurance. The design of any control system is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect financial statement errors and misstatements. Also, projection of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods is subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 


PART II. OTHER INFORMATION

ITEM 1: LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

The information set forth above under Part I, Item 1, Note 11 “Commitments and Contingencies” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS

A description of risks associated with our business, financial condition and results of our operations is set forth in Item 1A - Risk Factors of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018, which is incorporated herein by reference. 

ITEM 2: UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS

On July 20, 2017, the board of directors of the Company authorized the repurchase of up to $1.0 billion of the Company's common stock. The stock repurchase authorization did not have an expiration date and the pace of repurchase activity depended on factors such as current stock price, levels of cash generation from operations, cash requirements, and other factors. The Company's prior repurchase authorization was cancelled and superseded by this repurchase authorization.

On October 30, 2018, the board of directors of the Company authorized the repurchase of up to $1.5 billion of the Company’s common stock. This stock repurchase authorization does not have an expiration date and the pace of repurchase activity will depend on factors such as current stock price, levels of cash generation from operations, cash requirements, and other factors. The Company’s prior repurchase authorization was cancelled and superseded by this new repurchase authorization.



In the fiscal quarter ended December 29, 2018, the Company repurchased approximately 4.0 million shares of its common stock for approximately $207.6 million. As of December 29, 2018, the Company had remaining authorization of $1.3 billion for future share repurchases. The number of shares to be repurchased and the timing of such repurchases will be based on several factors, including the price of the Company’s common stock and general market and business conditions.

ITEM 3: DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIES

Not applicable. 

ITEM 4: MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES

Not applicable.

ITEM 5: OTHER INFORMATION

None.


ITEM 6: EXHIBITS


31.1Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act

31.2Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act

32.1Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 (1) 

32.2Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 (1) 


In accordance with Rule 406T of Regulation S-T, the XBRL-related information in Exhibit 101 to this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q is deemed not filed or part of a registration statement or prospectus for purposes of Sections 11 or 12 of the Securities Act, is deemed not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, and otherwise is not subject to liability under these sections.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the report has been signed below by the following person on behalf of the registrant and in the capacity indicated.


