SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
For the transition







the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such
been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.
has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every
Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405
of Regulation S-T (Section 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months
such files).
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated
filer, a non-accelerated filer, smaller reporting company, or emerging growth
an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected
not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised
financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange
Item 1. Financial Statements.</b>
a nanotechnology that relies on electron spin rather than electron charge to acquire,
of NVE Corporation are prepared consistent with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States and in accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission
rules and regulations. In the opinion of management, these financial statements
reflect all adjustments, consisting only of normal and recurring adjustments,
necessary for a fair presentation of the financial statements. Although we believe
that the disclosures are adequate to make the information presented not misleading,
it is suggested that these unaudited financial statements be read in conjunction
with the audited financial statements and the notes included in our latest annual
indicative of the results that may be expected for the full fiscal year ending
inventory that is recorded using the first-in, first-out method to be measured
in the first quarter of the current fiscal year, and the adoption has not had
the taxes related to stock based compensation, including adjustments to how excess
ending March 31, 2018. The adoption did not have a significant impact on our financial
which supersedes the revenue recognition requirements in Accounting Standards
principle that revenue is recognized to depict the transfer of goods or services
to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity
expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. It also requires
additional disclosure about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue
and cash flows arising from customer contracts, including significant judgments
and changes in judgments and assets recognized from costs incurred to obtain or
to each prior reporting period presented or retrospectively with the cumulative
effect of initially applying the guidance recognized at the date of initial application.
those fiscal years, which will be fiscal 2019 for us. We plan to adopt the guidance
retrospectively with any effect of initially applying the guidance recognized
at the date of initial application. Under this approach, we would not restate
prior financial statements presented. Based on an evaluation, we do not expect
there to be a material impact on our financial statements, because we do not expect
to change the manner or timing of recognizing revenue. We have evaluated each
of our revenue streams, product sales and contract research and development. We
recognize revenue on product sales to customers and distributors when we satisfy
our performance obligations as the products are shipped. We recognize contract
research and development revenue pro-rata as work progresses using costs incurred
relative to the total expected costs as the measurement basis for progress toward
completion. We are currently evaluating the impact of new disclosure requirements
issued accounting standards, on which our position have not changed since our
latest annual financial statements, are contained in the financial statements
the weighted-average number of common shares issued and outstanding during each
period. Net income per diluted share amounts assume exercise of all stock options.
Stock options totaling 4,000 for the quarter and 6,000 for the nine months ended
per share because the exercise prices were greater than the market price of the
common stock. The following tables show the components of diluted
less than one year are classified as short-term, and those with remaining maturities
greater than one year are classified as long-term. The fair value of our marketable
and fair value of our investments with unrealized losses, aggregated by investment
category and length of time that individual securities had been in a continuous
held, we do not consider any of our marketable securities to be impaired as of
the first nine months of fiscal 2018 and $22,000 for the first nine months of
fiscal 2017. The stock-based compensation expenses were due to the automatic issuance
to our non-employee directors of options to purchase 1,000 shares of stock on
their reelection to our Board. We calculate the share-based compensation expense
using the Black-Scholes standard option-pricing model. The increase in stock-based
compensation expense for fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017 was due to an increase
of temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities
for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes.
pursuant to titles II and V of the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal
2017. The Tax Reform Act reduced certain Federal corporate income tax rates effective
January 1, 2018 and changed certain other provisions. Effective tax rates for
the estimated benefit of one quarter of Federal tax rate reductions for fiscal
2018. These benefits were partially offset by a one-time $206,693 unfavorable
impact of a revaluation of our deferred tax assets that increased income tax provisions
for the quarter and nine months ended December 31, 2017 and reduced long-term
deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2017. As a result of the Tax Reform Act,
of the reporting date. We recognize interest and penalties related to income tax
interest related to uncertain tax positions. The tax years 1999 and 2013 through
2016 remain open to examination by the major taxing jurisdictions to which we
a framework for measuring fair value, provide a definition of fair value and prescribe
required disclosures about fair-value measurements. Generally accepted accounting
principles define fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset
or paid to transfer a liability. Fair value is a market-based measurement that
should be determined using assumptions that market participants would use in pricing
an asset or liability. Generally accepted accounting principles utilize a valuation
hierarchy for disclosure of fair value measurements. The categorization within
the valuation hierarchy is based on the lowest level of input that is significant
to the fair value measurement. The categories within the valuation hierarchy are
securities, which are classified as available-for-sale. On the balance sheets,
value measurements are determined using either prices for similar instruments
or inputs that are either directly or indirectly observable, such as interest
are unobservable inputs or valuation techniques. We do not have any financial
of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $2,500,000 of our Common Stock,
of additional repurchases. We did not repurchase any of our Common Stock under
had declared a quarterly cash dividend of $1.00 per share of Common Stock to be
the documents incorporated by reference in this Report and in other materials
as well as information included in verbal or written statements made by us constitute
forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995. These statements are subject to the safe harbor provisions
of the reform act. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of
the terminology such as may, will, expect, anticipate, intend, believe, estimate,
should, or continue, or the negatives of these terms or other variations on these
words or comparable terminology. To the extent that this Report contains forward-looking
statements regarding the financial condition, operating results, business prospects
or any other aspect of NVE, you should be aware that our actual financial condition,
operating results and business performance may differ materially from that projected
or estimated by us in the forward-looking statements. We have attempted to identify,
in context, some of the factors that we currently believe may cause actual future
experience and results to differ from their current expectations. These differences
may be caused by a variety of factors, including but not limited to uncertainties
related to the economic environments in the industries we serve, uncertainties
related to future contract research and development revenue, uncertainties related
to future stock repurchases and dividend payments, uncertainties related to the
future impact of Federal tax reform, and other specific risks that may be alluded
our, develops and sells devices that use spintronics, a nanotechnology that relies
on electron spin rather than electron charge to acquire, store and transmit information.
We manufacture high-performance spintronic products including sensors and couplers
that are used to acquire and transmit data. We have also licensed our spintronic
our critical accounting policies and estimates continued to include investment
2017 (the third quarter of fiscal 2018) decreased 1% compared to the quarter ended
to a 9% decrease in product sales, partially offset by a 164% increase in contract
quarter was primarily due to decreased purchases by existing customers. The increase
in contract research and development revenue for the third quarter of fiscal 2018
for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared to 80% for the third quarter of
of fiscal 2018 compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2017, due to a 19% decrease
in selling, general, and administrative expense, partially offset by a 3% increase
in research and development expense. The decrease in selling, general, and administrative
expense was due to decreased performance-based compensation and decreased legal
expenses. The increase in research and development expense was due to increased
2018 increased 2% due to an increase in the average interest rates on our marketable
taxes for the quarter, compared to 32.3% in the prior-year quarter. The decrease
was due to the blended effect of a decrease in the Federal tax rate with the enactment
of the Tax Reform Act, partially offset by a $206,693 one-time increase in our provision
for income taxes from the effect of the new rate on our deferred tax assets. Although
we have not yet fully assessed the impact of the Tax Reform Act on our future
taxes or net income, we currently expect our effective tax rate to be approximately
of fiscal 2018 compared to the prior-year quarter was primarily due to increased
contract research and development revenue, decreased selling, general, and administrative
expense, and a decrease in the provision for income taxes, partially offset by
decreased product sales, decreased gross profit margin, and increased research
increase was due to a 33% increase in contract research and development revenue.
The increase in contract research and development revenue from the prior-year
months of fiscal 2018 compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2017, due to
a 19% increase in research and development expense, partially offset by a 5% decrease
in selling, general, and administrative expense. The decrease in selling, general,
and administrative expense was primarily due to decreased sales commissions. The
increase in research and development expense was due to increased new product
taxes for the first nine months of fiscal 2018, compared to 32.2% in the prior-year
period. The decreased rate was due to a decrease in the Federal tax rate with
the enactment of the Tax Reform Act, partially offset by a $206,693 one-time increase
in our provision for income taxes from the effect of the new rate on our deferred
tax assets. Although we have not yet fully assessed the impact of the Tax Reform
Act on our future taxes or net income, we currently expect our effective tax rate
Federal tax rate is effective for one quarter of fiscal 2018 and all of fiscal
in net income in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 compared to the prior-year
period was primarily due to increased contract research and development revenue
and a decrease in the provision for income taxes, partially offset by increased
The $3,471,012 decrease in cash and cash equivalents during the nine months ended
and $320,965 cash used in investing activities, partially offset by $11,321,943
in net cash provided by operating activities. We currently believe our working
capital and cash generated from operations will be adequate for our needs at least
securities and $604,755 in purchases of fixed assets, partially offset by $16,540,000
months of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to $14,523,030 of cash dividends paid
to shareholders. In addition to dividends paid in the first nine months of fiscal
quarterly dividend of $1.00 per share of common stock, or $4,842,010 based on
We plan to fund dividends through cash provided by operating activities and proceeds
from maturities and sales of marketable securities. All future dividends will
cash and marketable security balances, estimates of future cash requirements,
and other factors the Board may deem relevant. Furthermore, dividends may be modified
market risks, primarily marketable securities and, to a lesser extent, changes
is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing after-tax yields without
significantly increasing risk. To achieve this objective, we maintain our portfolio
of cash equivalents and marketable securities in securities including municipal
obligations, corporate obligations, and money market funds. Short-term and long-term
marketable securities are generally classified as available-for-sale and consequently
are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value with unrealized gains or losses
reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income or
approximately 85% of our total assets. We have not used derivative financial instruments
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has performed an evaluation of
the period covered by this Report. This evaluation included consideration of the
controls, processes, and procedures that are designed to ensure that information
required to be disclosed by us in the reports we file under the Exchange Act is
recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified
communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required
disclosure. Based on such evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
there was no change in our internal control over financial reporting that materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over
involved in litigation. At this time we are not aware of any material pending
or threatened legal proceedings or other proceedings contemplated by governmental
authorities that we expect would have a material adverse impact on our future
to titles II and V of the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year
2018 and changed certain other provisions. We expect the new law to significantly
reduce our tax rate in future periods, and we expect our fourth-quarter tax provision
to reflect the benefit of a Federal tax rate reduction. Our estimated impacts
of the new law are based on our current knowledge and assumptions, and recognized
impacts could be materially different from current estimates based on our actual



Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
