SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
For the transition







the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such
been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.
submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted
pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (Section 232.405 of this chapter) during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required
a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller
mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for
complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant
Item 1. Financial Statements.</b>
a nanotechnology that relies on electron spin rather than electron charge to acquire,
of NVE Corporation are prepared consistent with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States and in accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission
rules and regulations. In the opinion of management, these financial statements
reflect all adjustments, consisting only of normal and recurring adjustments,
necessary for a fair presentation of the financial statements. Although we believe
that the disclosures are adequate to make the information presented not misleading,
it is suggested that these unaudited financial statements be read in conjunction
with the audited financial statements and the notes included in our latest annual
indicative of the results that may be expected for the full fiscal year ending
by the transfer of control of products or services to our customers, in an amount
that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those
products or services. Revenue is disaggregated into product sales and contract
research and development to depict the nature, amount, timing of revenue recognition
and economic characteristics of our business, and is represented within the financial
and distributors when we satisfy our performance obligation, at a point in time,
upon product shipment or delivery to our customer or distributor as determined
by agreed upon shipping terms. Shipping charges billed to customers are included
in product sales and the related shipping costs are included in selling, general,
and administrative expenses. Under certain limited circumstances, our distributors
may earn commissions for activities unrelated to their purchases of our products,
such as for facilitating the sale of custom products or research and development
contracts with third parties. We recognize any such commissions as selling, general,
and administrative expenses. We recognize discounts provided to our distributors
over a period of time as the performance obligation is satisfied over a period
of time rather than a point in time. Contracts have specifications unique to each
customer and do not create an asset with an alternate use, and we have an enforceable
right to payment for performance completed to date. We recognize revenue over
a period of time using costs incurred as the measurement of progress towards completion.
a good or service to a customer and our right to receive consideration is unconditional
through the completion of our performance obligation. A contract asset is recognized
when we have a right to consideration from the transfer of goods or services to
a customer but have not completed our performance obligation. A contract liability
is recognized when we have been paid by a customer but have not yet satisfied
the performance obligation by transferring goods or services. We had no material
and contract research and development contracts are satisfied in one year or less.
Unsatisfied performance obligations represent contracts with an original expected
duration of one year or less. As permitted under Accounting Standards Codification
are using the practical expedient not to disclose the value of these unsatisfied
performance obligations. We also use the practical expedient in which we do not
assess whether a contract has a significant financing component if the expectation
at contract inception is such that the period between payment by the customer
and the transfer of the promised goods or services to the customer will be one
requirements for fair value measurements by removing, modifying, or adding certain
disclosures. The amendments in ASU 2018-13 will be effective for fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 2019, and interim periods within those fiscal years,
which will be fiscal 2021 for us. Early adoption is permitted for the removed
disclosures and delayed adoption is permitted until fiscal 2021 for the new disclosures.
We adopted ASU 2018-13 early, effective the quarter ended September 30, 2018.
The removed and modified disclosures were adopted on a retrospective basis and
the new disclosures on a prospective basis. The adoption did not have a significant
addresses the effect of the change in the U.S. federal corporate tax rate on items
within accumulated other comprehensive income or loss due to the enactment of
those fiscal years, which will be fiscal 2020 for us. Early adoption is permitted,
resulted in a $60,365 reclassification from accumulated other comprehensive loss
and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows.
and financial statement presentation of equity investments, other than those accounted
for under the equity method of accounting or those that result in consolidation
of the investee. The amendment provides clarity on the measurement methodology
to be used for the required disclosure of fair value of financial instruments
measured at amortized cost on the balance sheet and clarifies that an entity should
evaluate the need for a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets related to
which superseded the revenue recognition requirements in Accounting Standards
principle that revenue is recognized to depict the transfer of goods or services
to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity
expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. It also requires
additional disclosure about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue
and cash flows arising from customer contracts, including significant judgments
and changes in judgments and assets recognized from costs incurred to obtain or
fulfill a contract. We adopted the guidance using the modified retrospective method
issued accounting standards, on which our position have not changed since our
latest annual financial statements, are contained in the financial statements
which clarifies codification and corrects unintended application of the guidance.
at amortized cost basis to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected.
The allowance for credit losses is a valuation account that is deducted from the
amortized cost basis of the financial asset(s) to present the net carrying value
fiscal years, which will be fiscal 2021 for us. We do not expect adoption of the
lease liabilities on the balance sheet of lessees. In July 2018, the FASB issued
narrow amendments to clarify how to apply certain aspects of the new lease standard.
2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years, which will be fiscal 2020
transition provisions of the new lease standard at its adoption date instead of
at the earliest comparative period presented in its financial statements. We expect
to adopt the new lease guidance using the newly-approved transition method. We
expect to recognize a liability and corresponding asset associated with in-scope
operating and finance leases but are still in the process of determining those
amounts and the processes required to account for leasing activity on an ongoing
the weighted-average number of common shares issued and outstanding during each
period. Net income per diluted share amounts assume exercise of all stock options.
as available-for-sale securities and carried at estimated fair value. Unrealized
holding gains and losses are included in accumulated other comprehensive income
maturities less than one year are classified as short-term, and those with remaining
maturities greater than one year are classified as long-term. We consider all
highly-liquid investments with maturities of three months or less when purchased,
including money market funds, to be cash equivalents. Gains and losses on marketable
a framework for measuring fair value, provide a definition of fair value, and
prescribe required disclosures about fair-value measurements. Generally accepted
accounting principles define fair value as the price that would be received to
sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability. Fair value is a market-based measurement
that should be determined using assumptions that market participants would use
in pricing an asset or liability. Generally accepted accounting principles utilize
a valuation hierarchy for disclosure of fair value measurements. The categorization
within the valuation hierarchy is based on the lowest level of input that is significant
to the fair value measurement. The categories within the valuation hierarchy are
value measurements are determined using either prices for similar instruments
or inputs that are either directly or indirectly observable, such as interest
losses and fair value of our available-for-sale securities with unrealized holding
losses, aggregated by class of securities and length of time that individual securities
were impaired at acquisition, and subsequent declines in fair value are not attributed
to declines in credit quality. When evaluating for impairment we assess indicators
that include, but are not limited to, earnings performance, changes in underlying
credit ratings, market conditions, bona fide offers to purchase or sell, and ability
to hold until maturity. Because we believe it is more likely than not we will
recover the cost basis of our investments, we did not consider any of our marketable
the first nine months of fiscal 2019 and $40,920 for the first nine months of
fiscal 2018. Stock-based compensation expenses were due to the automatic issuance
to our non-employee directors of options to purchase 1,000 shares of stock on
their reelection to our Board. We calculate the share-based compensation expense
using the Black-Scholes standard option-pricing model. The increase in stock-based
compensation expense for fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 was due to an increase
of temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities
for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes.
to titles II and V of the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year
The Tax Reform Act reduced certain Federal corporate income tax rates effective
Tax Reform Act, our tax rate decreased to an estimated 18% for fiscal 2019 from
of the reporting date. We recognize interest and penalties related to income tax
interest related to uncertain tax positions. The tax years 1999 and 2014 through
2017 remain open to examination by the major taxing jurisdictions to which we
of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $2,500,000 of our Common Stock,
of additional repurchases. We did not repurchase any
2018. The remaining authorization was $4,540,806
had declared a quarterly cash dividend of $1.00 per share of Common Stock to be
the documents incorporated by reference in this Report and in other materials
as well as information included in verbal or written statements made by us constitute
forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995. These statements are subject to the safe harbor provisions
of the reform act. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of
the terminology such as may, will, expect, anticipate, intend, believe, estimate,
should, or continue, or the negatives of these terms or other variations on these
words or comparable terminology. To the extent that this Report contains forward-looking
statements regarding the financial condition, operating results, business prospects
or any other aspect of NVE, you should be aware that our actual financial condition,
operating results and business performance may differ materially from that projected
or estimated by us in the forward-looking statements. We have attempted to identify,
in context, some of the factors that we currently believe may cause actual future
experience and results to differ from their current expectations. These differences
may be caused by a variety of factors, including but not limited to risks related
to our reliance on several large customers for a significant percentage of revenue,
uncertainties related to the economic environments in the industries we serve,
uncertainties related to future contract research and development revenue, uncertainties
related to the impact of Federal tax reform, uncertainties related to future stock
repurchases and dividend payments, and other specific risks that may be alluded
to in this Report or in the documents incorporated by reference in this Report.
our, develops and sells devices that use spintronics, a nanotechnology that relies
on electron spin rather than electron charge to acquire, store and transmit information.
We manufacture high-performance spintronic products including sensors and couplers
that are used to acquire and transmit data. We have also licensed our spintronic
our critical accounting policies and estimates continued to include investment
2018 (the third quarter of fiscal 2019) decreased 15% compared to the quarter
was due to a 7% decrease in product sales and a 69% decrease in contract research
quarter was primarily due to decreased purchases by existing customers. The decrease
in contract research and development revenue for the third quarter of fiscal 2019
for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to 77% for the third quarter of
of fiscal 2019 compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2018, due to a 32% increase
in research and development expense partially offset by a 14% decrease in selling,
general, and administrative expense. The increase in research and development
expense was due to an increase in new product development activities. The decrease
2019 increased 13% due to an increase in the average interest rates on our marketable
taxes for the quarter, compared to 28% in the prior-year quarter. The decreased
tax rate was due to the full effects of a decrease in the Federal tax rate and
of fiscal 2019 compared to the prior-year quarter was primarily due to a decrease
partially offset by an increase in gross profit margin, an increase in interest
to a 57% decrease in contract research and development revenue. The decrease in
contract research and development revenue was due to the completion of certain
for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared to 78% for the first nine months
of fiscal 2019 compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2018, due to an 11%
increase in research and development expense, partially offset by an 8% decrease
in selling, general, and administrative expense. The increase in research and
development expense was due to an increase in new product development activities.
The decrease in selling, general, and administrative expense was due to staffing
2019 increased 15% due to an increase in the average interest rates on our marketable
taxes for the first nine months of fiscal 2019, compared to 31% in the prior-year
period. The decrease was due to the effect of a decrease in the Federal tax rate
months of fiscal 2019 compared to the prior-year period was primarily due to increased
The $1,451,467 increase in cash and cash equivalents during the nine months ended
activities and $4,082,508 of cash provided by investing activities, partially
offset by $14,310,090 of cash used in financing activities. We currently believe
our working capital and cash generated from operations will be adequate for our
maturities, partially offset by $11,649,227 of purchases of marketable securities
months of fiscal 2019 was due to $14,528,030 of cash dividends paid to shareholders,
partially offset by $217,940 in proceeds from sale of common stock from stock
option exercises. In addition to the dividends already paid in fiscal
quarterly dividend of $1.00 per share of common stock, or $4,846,010 based on
We plan to fund dividends through cash provided by operating activities and proceeds
from maturities and sales of marketable securities. All future dividends will
cash and marketable security balances, estimates of future cash requirements,
and other factors the Board may deem relevant. Furthermore, dividends may be modified
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has performed an evaluation of
the period covered by this Report. This evaluation included consideration of the
controls, processes, and procedures that are designed to ensure that information
required to be disclosed by us in the reports we file under the Exchange Act is
recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified
communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required
disclosure. Based on such evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
there was no change in our internal control over financial reporting that materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over
involved in litigation. At this time we are not aware of any material pending
or threatened legal proceedings or other proceedings contemplated by governmental
authorities that we expect would have a material adverse impact on our future
factors disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
