

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION






For the quarterly period ended June 30, 2019 

OR




PEGASYSTEMS INC.





One Rogers Street, Cambridge, MA 02142-1209 







Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes x No ¨

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to submit such files). Yes x No ¨ 

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company,” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.




There were 79,131,665 shares of the Registrant’s common stock, $0.01 par value per share, outstanding on July 30, 2019.  
PEGASYSTEMS INC.

QUARTERLY REPORT ON FORM 10-Q 

PART I - FINANCIAL INFORMATION

ITEM 1. UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

PEGASYSTEMS INC.

UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.


PEGASYSTEMS INC.

UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS



See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.


PEGASYSTEMS INC.

UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE (LOSS) 



See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.


PEGASYSTEMS INC.

UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY 



See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.


PEGASYSTEMS INC.

UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.


PEGASYSTEMS INC.

NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION

Pegasystems Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, “the Company”) has prepared the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) regarding interim financial reporting. Accordingly, they do not include all the information required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S.”) for complete financial statements and should be read in conjunction with the Company’s audited financial statements included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.

In the opinion of management, the Company has prepared the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements on the same basis as its audited financial statements, and these financial statements include all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the results of the interim periods presented. 

The operating results for the interim periods presented are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for the full year 2019.

2. NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

Financial instruments 

In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-13, “Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments,” which requires measurement and recognition of expected credit losses for financial assets measured at amortized cost, including accounts receivable, upon initial recognition of that financial asset using a forward-looking expected loss model, rather than an incurred loss model. Credit losses relating to available-for-sale debt securities should be recorded through an allowance for credit losses when the fair value is below the amortized cost of the asset, removing the concept of “other-than-temporary” impairments. The effective date for the Company will be January 1, 2020, with early adoption permitted. The Company does not expect the adoption of this standard will have a material effect on its financial position or results of operations.

Leases

On January 1, 2019, the Company adopted Accounting Standards Codification 842 “Leases” (“ASC 842”) using the modified retrospective method, reflecting any cumulative effect as an adjustment to equity. Results for reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2019 are presented under ASC 842, while prior period amounts were not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with the Company’s historic accounting under ASC 840 “Leases”.


See Note 9. “Leases” for additional information.




As of June 30, 2019, maturities of marketable securities ranged from January 2020 to August 2022, with a weighted-average remaining maturity of approximately 1.5 years.


PEGASYSTEMS INC.

NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

4. RECEIVABLES, CONTRACT ASSETS, AND DEFERRED REVENUE

Receivables


Unbilled receivables are client committed amounts for which revenue recognition precedes billing, and billing is solely subject to the passage of time.



Contract assets and deferred revenue




 (1) Included in other long-term liabilities.

Contract assets are amounts under client contracts where revenue recognized exceeds the amount billed to the client and the right to payment is subject to conditions other than the passage of time, such as the completion of a related performance obligation. Deferred revenue consists of billings and payments received in advance of revenue recognition. Contract assets and deferred revenue are netted at the contract level for each reporting period. 

The change in deferred revenue in the six months ended June 30, 2019 was primarily due to $135.8 million of revenue recognized, excluding the impact of netting contract assets and deferred revenue at the contract level, during the period that was included in deferred revenue at December 31, 2018, partially offset by new billings in advance of revenue recognition.

5. DEFERRED CONTRACT COSTS

The Company recognizes an asset for the incremental costs of obtaining a client contract, which primarily relate to sales commissions. The Company expects to benefit from those costs for more than one year, as the Company generally only pays sales commissions on the initial contract, and not any subsequent contract renewals. As a result, there are no commensurate commissions paid on contract renewals. Deferred costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over the benefit period, which is on average 5 years.






PEGASYSTEMS INC.

NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

6. GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS

Goodwill




Intangibles











PEGASYSTEMS INC.

NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

8. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS 

Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis

The Company records its cash equivalents, marketable securities, and investments in privately-held companies at fair value on a recurring basis. Fair value is an exit price, representing the amount that would be received from the sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants based on assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability. 


•Level 1 - observable inputs such as quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; 

•Level 2 - significant other inputs that are observable either directly or indirectly; and 

•Level 3 - significant unobservable inputs on which there is little or no market data, which require the Company to develop its own assumptions. This hierarchy requires the Company to use observable market data, when available, and to minimize the use of unobservable inputs when determining fair value.

The Company’s cash equivalents are composed of money market funds and time deposits, which are classified within Level 1 and Level 2, respectively, in the fair value hierarchy. The Company’s marketable securities, which are classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy are valued based on a market approach using quoted prices, when available, or matrix pricing compiled by third party pricing vendors, using observable market inputs such as interest rates, yield curves, and credit risk. The Company’s investments in privately-held companies are classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.

If applicable, the Company will recognize transfers into and out of levels within the fair value hierarchy at the end of the reporting period in which the actual event or change in circumstance occurs. There were no transfers between levels during the six months ended June 30, 2019.






For certain other financial instruments, including accounts receivable and accounts payable, the carrying value approximates fair value due to the relatively short maturity of these items.


The Company’s leases are primarily for office space used in the ordinary course of business. 

Accounting policy

All the Company’s leases are operating leases. The Company accounts for a contract as a lease when it has the right to control the asset for a period of time while obtaining substantially all of the asset’s economic benefits. The Company determines the initial classification and measurement of its operating right of use assets and lease liabilities at the lease commencement date and thereafter if modified. Fixed lease costs are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Variable lease costs are recognized in the period in which the obligation for those payments is incurred. The Company combines lease and non-lease components in the determination of lease costs for its office space leases. The lease liability includes lease payments related to options to extend or renew the lease term, if the Company is 


PEGASYSTEMS INC.

NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

reasonably certain it will exercise those options. The Company’s leases do not contain any material residual value guarantees or restrictive covenants. 

Expense



Right of use assets and lease liabilities













PEGASYSTEMS INC.

NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

Cash flow information



Geographic revenue


Revenue streams





PEGASYSTEMS INC.

NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

Remaining performance obligations (“RPO”)





Expense


As of June 30, 2019, the Company had $99.5 million of unrecognized stock-based compensation expense, net of estimated forfeitures, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.2 years.

Grants



Vestings and exercises

During the six months ended June 30, 2019, 0.8 million shares of common stock were issued due to stock option exercises and RSU vestings under the Company’s stock-based compensation plans. 


PEGASYSTEMS INC.

NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)


Effective income tax rate


During the six months ended June 30, 2019, the Company’s effective income tax rate decreased primarily due to the Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (“GILTI”) and Foreign Derived Intangible Income (“FDII”) provisions of the Tax Reform Act. The Company’s effective income tax rate was also affected by excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation, an increase in U.S. research and development tax credits, and a decrease in uncertain tax positions as a result of the lapse of the statute of limitations on certain foreign reserves.

13. EARNINGS PER SHARE

Basic earnings per share is computed using the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the applicable period. Diluted earnings per share is computed using the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the applicable period, plus the dilutive effect of outstanding stock options and RSUs, using the treasury stock method. In periods of loss, all stock options and RSUs are excluded, as their inclusion would be anti-dilutive.




ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains or incorporates forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include, but are not limited to, statements about our future financial performance and business plans, the adequacy of our liquidity and capital resources, the continued payment of quarterly dividends, the timing of revenue recognition, and are described more completely in Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. 

These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about the industry and markets in which we operate, and management’s beliefs and assumptions. In addition, other written or oral statements that constitute forward-looking statements may be made by us or on our behalf. Words such as “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “could,” “estimate,” “may,” “target,” “strategy,” “is intended to,” “project,” “guidance,” “likely,” “usually,” or variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. 

Important factors that could cause actual future activities and results to differ materially from those expressed in such forward-looking statements include, among others, variation in demand for our products and services, reliance on third party relationships, reliance on key personnel, the inherent risks associated with international operations and the continued uncertainties in the global economy, our continued effort to market and sell both domestically and internationally, foreign currency exchange rates, the potential legal and financial liabilities and reputation damage due to cyber-attacks and security breaches, and management of our growth. These risks and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in such forward-looking statements are described more completely in Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 and other filings we make with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).

Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements and there are no assurances that the results contained in such statements will be achieved. Although new information, future events, or risks may cause actual results to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements, except as required by applicable law, we do not undertake and specifically disclaim any obligation to publicly update or revise these forward-looking statements whether as the result of new information, future events, or otherwise.

BUSINESS OVERVIEW

We develop, market, license, and support enterprise software applications that help organizations transform the way they engage with their customers and process and complete work across their enterprise. We also license our no-code Pega Platform™ for rapid application development to clients that wish to build and extend their own business applications. Our cloud-architected portfolio of customer engagement and digital process automation applications leverages artificial intelligence (“AI”), case management, and robotic automation technology, built on our unified no-code Pega Platform, empowering businesses to quickly design, extend, and scale their enterprise applications to meet strategic business needs.

Our target clients are Global 3000 organizations and government agencies that require applications to differentiate themselves in the markets they serve. Our applications achieve and facilitate differentiation by increasing business agility, driving growth, improving productivity, attracting and retaining customers, and reducing risk. We deliver applications tailored to our clients’ specific industry needs.

Performance metrics

We utilize a number of performance measures in analyzing and assessing our overall performance, making operating decisions, and forecasting and planning for future periods.




Annual Contract Value (“ACV”) (1) (2) 

The change in ACV measures the growth and predictability of future cash flows from Pega Cloud and Client Cloud committed arrangements as of the end of the particular reporting period. 






Remaining performance obligations (“RPO”)




CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICES

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is based upon our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“U.S.”) and the rules and regulations of the SEC for interim financial reporting. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses, and the related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience, knowledge of current conditions, and expectations of what could occur in the future given available information.


•“Critical Accounting Estimates and Significant Judgments” in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”; and 

•Note 2. “Significant Accounting Policies” in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”.

There have been no significant changes to our critical accounting policies as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Revenue



Our license revenue is derived from sales of our applications and Pega Platform. Our cloud revenue is derived from our hosted Pega Platform and software applications.

We expect our revenue mix to continue to shift in favor of our subscription offerings, particularly cloud arrangements, which could result in slower total revenue growth in the near term. Revenue from cloud arrangements is generally recognized over the service period, while revenue from term and perpetual license arrangements is generally recognized upfront when the license rights become effective.

Subscription revenue

The increases in cloud revenue in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 reflect the shift in client preferences to cloud arrangements from other types of arrangements.

The decreases in term license revenue in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 were due to revenue recognized from several large, multi-year term license contracts in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and reflect the shift in client preferences in favor of our cloud offerings. The decreases are also attributable to revenue recognized from term license contracts in the six months ended June 30, 2019 with multi-year committed maintenance periods, which resulted in a greater portion of the contract value being allocated to maintenance.

The increases in maintenance revenue in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 were primarily due to the continued growth in the aggregate value of the installed base of our software and strong renewal rates in excess of 90%.

Perpetual license

The increase in perpetual license revenue in the three months ended June 30, 2019 was primarily due to revenue recognized from a large perpetual license contract in the second quarter of 2019. The decrease in perpetual license revenue in the six months ended June 30, 2019 reflects the shift in client preferences in favor of our cloud offerings instead of our perpetual license arrangements.

Consulting

Our consulting revenue fluctuates depending upon the mix of new implementation projects we perform as compared to those performed by our enabled clients or led by our partners. The decreases in consulting revenue in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 were primarily due to a decrease in billable hours.

Gross profit


The recent shift in our revenue mix toward cloud arrangements has resulted in slower total gross profit growth as our cloud business continues to grow and scale. Revenue from cloud arrangements is generally recognized over the service period, while revenue from term and perpetual license arrangements is generally recognized upfront when the license rights become effective.

The increase in total gross profit in the three months ended June 30, 2019 was primarily due to an increase in cloud revenue reflecting the shift in client preferences to cloud arrangements from other types of arrangements, and an increase in maintenance revenue due to the continued growth in the aggregate value of the installed base of our software and strong renewal rates in excess of 90%. The decrease in total gross profit in the six months ended June 30, 2019 was primarily due to a decrease in term and perpetual license revenue reflecting the shift in client preferences toward our cloud offerings and a decrease in consulting revenue due to a decrease in billable hours.

The increase in total gross profit percent in the three months ended June 30, 2019 was driven by an increase in higher margin maintenance revenue. The decrease in total gross profit percent in the six months ended June 30, 2019 was driven by the shift in client preferences in favor of cloud arrangements, which are lower margin than our term and perpetual license revenue streams.

The decreases in cloud gross profit percent in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 were driven by an increase in costs as we accelerated our investments in cloud infrastructure and service delivery to support future growth. The decrease in consulting gross profit percent in the six months ended June 30, 2019 was driven by a decrease in billable hours as consulting resources were transitioning to new projects after completing a large project and an increase in consulting resource availability as we continue growing and leveraging our partner network.

Operating expenses

Selling and marketing



The increases in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 were primarily due to increases in compensation and benefits of $17.7 million and $35.4 million, attributable to increased headcount, equity compensation, and increases of $2.1 million and $6.6 million in deferred contract cost amortization. The increase in headcount reflects our efforts to increase our sales capacity to deepen relationships with existing clients and target new accounts.

Research and development



The increases in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 were primarily due to increases in compensation and benefits of $4.6 million and $6.7 million, attributable to an increase in headcount and equity compensation, and increases of $1.7 million and $3.3 million in cloud hosting expenses as we expand our cloud-focused research and development activities.

General and administrative



The increase in the three months ended June 30, 2019 was primarily due to an increase in compensation and benefits of $1.7 million, due to increased headcount.

Stock-based compensation


The increases in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 were primarily due to the increased value of our annual periodic equity awards granted in March 2019 and 2018. These awards generally have a five-year vesting schedule.

Other income (expense), net



The changes in foreign currency transaction gain (loss) were primarily due to the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates associated with our foreign currency denominated cash, accounts receivable, and intercompany receivables and payables held by our United Kingdom (“U.K.”) subsidiary.



The inclusion of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation in the provision for income taxes has increased the variability of the effective tax rates in recent periods. This fluctuation may continue in future periods, as the amount of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation awards varies depending on our future stock price in relation to the fair value of awards, the timing of RSU vestings, the exercise behavior of our stock option holders, and the total value of future grants of stock-based compensation awards.

During the six months ended June 30, 2019, the Company’s effective income tax rate changed primarily due to the Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (“GILTI”) and Foreign Derived Intangible Income (“FDII”) provisions of the Tax Reform Act. The Company’s effective income tax rate was also affected by excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation, an increase in U.S. research and development tax credits, and a decrease in uncertain tax positions as a result of the lapse of the statute of limitations on certain foreign reserves. 

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES



We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to fund our operations, quarterly cash dividends, and stock repurchases for at least the next 12 months.

If it became necessary to repatriate foreign funds, we may be required to pay U.S. state and local taxes, as well as foreign taxes, upon repatriation. Due to the complexity of income tax laws and regulations, and the effects of the Tax Reform Act, it is impracticable to estimate the amount of taxes we would have to pay.

Cash provided by operating activities 

As client preferences continue to shift in favor of cloud arrangements, we could continue to experience slower operating cash flow growth in the near term. Cash from cloud arrangements is generally collected over an average service period of three years, while cash from perpetual license arrangements is generally collected upfront, shortly after the license rights become effective.

The primary driver of the decrease in the six months ended June 30, 2019 was the recent shift in our revenue mix toward cloud arrangements, which are generally collected over an average service period of three years, and increased costs as the Company accelerated investments in its cloud offerings and selling and marketing activities to support future growth.

Cash provided by (used in) investing activities 

The change in cash provided by (used in) investing activities was primarily driven by the timing of investment maturities and sales, purchases of new investments, and the payment of consideration for the acquisition of In the Chat Communications Inc. in May 2019.

Cash (used in) financing activities 

We primarily used cash in financing activities for repurchases of our common stock under our publicly announced stock repurchase programs, stock repurchases for tax withholdings for the net settlement of our equity awards, and the payment of our quarterly dividend. 

Stock repurchase program (1) 




Common stock repurchases



Dividends


It is our current intention to pay a quarterly cash dividend of $0.03 per share, however, the Board of Directors may terminate or modify the dividend program at any time without prior notice.

ITEM 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

There have been no material changes during the six months ended June 30, 2019 to the market risk exposure disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.

ITEM 4. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 


Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”)) as of June 30, 2019. In designing and evaluating our disclosure controls and procedures, our management recognized that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives, and our management necessarily applied its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures. Based on this evaluation, our CEO and CFO concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of June 30, 2019.


There have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) during the quarter ended June 30, 2019 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

PART II - OTHER INFORMATION

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

We encourage you to carefully consider the risk factors identified in Item 1A. “Risk Factors” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. These risk factors could materially affect our business, financial condition, and future results and could cause our actual business and financial results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or elsewhere by management from time to time.

There have been no material changes during the six months ended June 30, 2019 to the risk factors disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.

ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

The following table sets forth information regarding our repurchases of our common stock during the three months ended June 30, 2019.




Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities

In connection with our acquisition of In the Chat Communications Inc. on May 10, 2019 and in reliance on the Regulation D exemption from registration requirements under the Securities Act, we granted an employee the right to obtain up to 14,497 shares of our common stock, which will be issued in five equal tranches contingent upon continued employment. No general solicitation or advertising to market the securities occurred. 

ITEM 6. EXHIBITS


+ Indicates that the exhibit is being furnished with this report and is not filed as a part of it.

SIGNATURE

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


