
 UNITED STATES  

 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  



 (Mark One)  


 For the quarterly period ended December 2, 2017  

 OR  


 For the transition period from  To    


 RICHARDSON ELECTRONICS, LTD.  

 (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)  









 As of January 9, 2018, there were outstanding 10,789,544 shares of Common Stock, $0.05 par value and 2,136,919 shares of Class B Common Stock, $0.05 par value, which are convertible into Common Stock of the registrant on a share for share basis.  



  PART I.  FINANCIAL INFORMATION    

  ITEM 1.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

  Richardson Electronics, Ltd.   

  Consolidated Balance Sheets   



 Richardson Electronics, Ltd.  

 Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss)  

 (in thousands, except per share amounts)  



 Richardson Electronics, Ltd.  

 Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows  

 (in thousands)  



 Richardson Electronics, Ltd.  

 Unaudited Consolidated Statement of Stockholders’ Equity  

 (in thousands, except per share amounts)  



RICHARDSON ELECTRONICS, LTD.  

NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

1. DESCRIPTION OF THE COMPANY 

Richardson Electronics, Ltd. is a leading global provider of engineered solutions, power grid and microwave tubes and related consumables; power conversion and RF and microwave components; high value flat panel detector solutions, replacement parts, tubes and service training for diagnostic imaging equipment; and customized display solutions. We serve customers in the alternative energy, healthcare, aviation, broadcast, communications, industrial, marine, medical, military, scientific and semiconductor markets. The Company’s strategy is to provide specialized technical expertise and “engineered solutions” based on our core engineering and manufacturing capabilities. The Company provides solutions and adds value through design-in support, systems integration, prototype design and manufacturing, testing, logistics, and aftermarket technical service and repair through its global infrastructure. 

Our products include electron tubes and related components, microwave generators, subsystems used in semiconductor manufacturing, and visual technology solutions. These products are used to control, switch or amplify electrical power signals, or are used as display devices in a variety of industrial, commercial, medical, and communication applications. 


Power and Microwave Technologies Group (“PMT”) combines our core engineered solutions, power grid and microwave tube business with new RF and power technologies. As a manufacturer and authorized distributor, PMT’s strategy is to provide specialized technical expertise and engineered solutions based on our core engineering and manufacturing capabilities. We provide solutions and add value through design-in support, systems integration, prototype design and manufacturing, testing, logistics, and aftermarket technical service and repair—all through our existing global infrastructure. PMT’s focus is on products for power, RF and microwave applications for customers in alternative energy, aviation, broadcast, communications, industrial, marine, medical, military, scientific, and semiconductor markets. PMT focuses on various applications including broadcast transmission, CO2 laser cutting, diagnostic imaging, dielectric and induction heating, high energy transfer, high voltage switching, plasma, power conversion, radar, and radiation oncology. PMT also offers its customers technical services for both microwave and industrial equipment. 

Canvys provides customized display solutions serving the corporate enterprise, financial, healthcare, industrial, and medical original equipment manufacturers (“OEM”) markets. 

Healthcare manufactures, refurbishes and distributes high value replacement parts for the healthcare market including hospitals, medical centers, asset management companies, independent service organizations, and multi-vendor service providers. Products include Diagnostic Imaging replacement parts for CT and MRI systems; replacement CT and MRI tubes; CT service training; MRI coils, cold heads, and RF amplifiers; hydrogen thyratrons, klystrons, magnetrons; flat panel detector upgrades; and additional replacement solutions currently under development for the diagnostic imaging service market. Through a combination of newly developed products and partnerships, service offerings, and training programs, we believe we can help our customers improve efficiency and deliver better clinical outcomes while lowering the cost of healthcare delivery. 


2. BASIS OF PRESENTATION 

The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”) for interim financial information and the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X. Accordingly, they do not include all the information and notes required by GAAP for complete financial statements. 

Our fiscal quarter ends on the Saturday nearest the end of the quarter-ending month. The second quarter of fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017 both contained 13 weeks. The first six months of fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017 contained 27 and 26 weeks, respectively. 

In the opinion of management, all adjustments, which are of a normal and recurring nature, necessary for a fair presentation of the results of interim periods have been made. All inter-company transactions and balances have been eliminated. The unaudited consolidated financial statements presented herein include the accounts of our wholly owned subsidiaries. Certain information and note disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations. The results of our operations for the three and six months ended December 2, 2017, are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending June 2, 2018. 

 The financial information contained in this report should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 27, 2017, that we filed on July 31, 2017. 


 3. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES 


At this time, we do not anticipate any material risks or uncertainties related to possible future inventory write-downs. Provisions for obsolete or slow moving inventories are recorded based upon regular analysis of stock rotation privileges, obsolescence, the exiting of certain markets and assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If future demand changes in the industry, or market conditions differ from management’s estimates, additional provisions may be necessary. Inventory reserves were approximately $3.6 million as of December 2, 2017 and $3.5 million as of May 27, 2017. 


In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2014-09 (“ASU 2014-09”), Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which amends guidance for revenue recognition. ASU 2014-09 is principles based guidance that can be applied to all contracts with customers, enhancing comparability of revenue recognition practices across entities, industries, jurisdictions and capital markets. The core principle of the guidance is that entities should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods and services. The guidance details the steps entities should apply to achieve the core principle. In August 2015, the FASB issued an amendment to defer the effective date for all entities by one year. For public entities, ASU 2014-09 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within that reporting period. Early adoption is permitted as of annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016. Companies have the option of using either a full or modified retrospective approach in applying this standard. During fiscal 2016 and 2017, the FASB issued four additional updates which further clarify the guidance provided in ASU 2014-09. 

We are evaluating the impact of the new standard on our financial statements using a three-phase approach (assessment, conversion and implementation). We continue to work through our assessment phase and further evaluation is needed in order to determine whether or not the new revenue recognition standard will have a material impact on our financial statements and related disclosures upon adoption. We have undertaken a detailed analysis of our various contracts with customers and revenue streams. The Company has engaged a third party to assist in evaluating the impact of this new standard on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. We will complete the conversion and implementation phases by the end of fiscal year 2018 in conjunction with future interpretative guidance. 









 4. GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS 

The carrying value of goodwill was $6.3 million as of December 2, 2017 and May 27, 2017. 

Goodwill is initially recorded based on the premium paid for acquisitions and is subsequently tested for impairment, using the first day of our fourth quarter as the measurement date. We test goodwill for impairment annually and whenever events or circumstances indicates an impairment may have occurred, such as a significant adverse change in the business climate, loss of key personnel or a decision to sell or dispose of a reporting unit. The goodwill balance in its entirety relates to our IMES reporting unit which is included in our Healthcare segment. 

Intangible assets are initially recorded at their fair market values determined on quoted market prices in active markets, if available, or recognized valuation models. Intangible assets that have finite useful lives are amortized over their useful lives either on a straight-line basis or over their projected future cash flows and are tested for impairment when events or changes in circumstances occur that indicate possible impairment. 







The weighted average number of years of amortization expense remaining is 16.1 years. 


As of December 2, 2017, we had approximately $4.1 million invested in time deposits and certificates of deposit (“CD”) which mature in less than twelve months. The fair value of these investments is equal to the face value of each time deposit and CD. 

As of May 27, 2017, we had invested in time deposits and certificates of deposit in the amount of $8.2 million. Of this, $6.4 million mature in less than twelve months and $1.8 million mature in greater than twelve months. The fair value of these investments is the face value of each time deposit and CD. 

We also had investments in equity securities, all of which are classified as available-for-sale and are carried at their fair value based on quoted market prices. Our investments, which are included in non-current assets, had a carrying amount of $0.7 million and $0.6 million as of December 2, 2017 and as of May 27, 2017, respectively. Proceeds from the sale of securities were $0.1 million during the second quarter of fiscal 2018 and during the second quarter of fiscal 2017. We reinvested proceeds from the sale of securities, and the cost of the equity securities sold was based on a specific identification method. Gross realized gains on those sales were less than $0.1 million during the second quarter of fiscal 2018 and during the second quarter of fiscal 2017. Net unrealized holding gains of less than $0.1 million during the second quarter of fiscal 2018 and during the second quarter of fiscal 2017 have been included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). 


We offer warranties for the limited number of specific products we manufacture. We also provide extended warranties for some products we sell that lengthen the period of coverage specified in the manufacturer’s original warranty. Our warranty terms generally range from one to three years. 

We estimate the cost to perform under the warranty obligation and recognize this estimated cost at the time of the related product sale. We record expense related to our warranty obligations as cost of sales in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income (loss). Each quarter, we assess actual warranty costs incurred on a product-by-product basis and compare the warranty costs to our estimated warranty obligation. With respect to new products, estimates are based generally on knowledge of the products, the extended warranty period and warranty experience. 

Warranty reserves are established for costs that are expected to be incurred after the sale and delivery of products under warranty. Warranty reserves are included in accrued liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets. The warranty reserves are determined based on known product failures, historical experience and other available evidence. Warranty reserves were approximately $0.1 million as of December 2, 2017 and as of May 27, 2017. 

7. LEASE OBLIGATIONS, OTHER COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES 





We recorded an income tax provision from continuing operations of $0.6 million and $0.8 million for the first six months of fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, respectively. The effective income tax rate from continuing operations during the first six months of fiscal 2018 was a tax provision of 90.9% as compared to a tax provision of (18.3%) during the first six months of fiscal 2017. The difference in rate during the first six months of fiscal 2018, as compared to the first six months of fiscal 2017, reflects the change in the overall loss realized through the second quarter in each respective period, changes in our geographical distribution of income (loss), the recording of provision to return true-ups of various foreign jurisdictions, the accrual of an uncertain tax position with respect to the ongoing German audit and our positions with respect to ASC 740-30, Income Taxes - Other Considerations or Special Areas (“ASC 740-30”). The 90.9% effective income tax rate differs from the federal statutory rate of 34.0% as a result of our geographical distribution of income (loss), the recording of a valuation allowance against the increase in our U.S. state and federal net deferred tax assets and recognition of an uncertain tax position and preliminary tax assessments with respect to the income tax audit in Germany. 

In the normal course of business, we are subject to examination by taxing authorities throughout the world. Generally, years prior to fiscal 2007 are closed for examination under the statute of limitation for U.S. federal, U.S. state and local or non-U.S. tax jurisdictions. We are currently under examination in Thailand (fiscal 2008 through 2011). We are also under examination in the state of Illinois for fiscal years 2014 and 2015. Our primary foreign tax jurisdictions are Germany and the Netherlands. During the second quarter of fiscal 2018, the examination in Germany of years 2012-2014 resulted in preliminary findings and a tax assessment and additional uncertain tax position reserve for open tax years have been recorded in the amount of $0.2 million. We have tax years open in Germany beginning in fiscal 2015 and the Netherlands beginning in fiscal 2011. 

On September 12, 2017, the Company received an income tax refund from the State of Illinois of approximately $2.0 million, which was inclusive of interest earned. The refund was a result of the conclusion of the Illinois amended return related to the sale of the RF, Wireless and Power Division in 2011. A net benefit of $1.5 million, which includes $0.5 million of professional fee costs incurred to pursue the refund, was recognized in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 in discontinued operations. 

We have historically determined that certain undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, to the extent of cash available, will be repatriated to the U.S. Accordingly, we have provided a deferred tax liability totaling $5.7 million as of December 2, 2017, on foreign earnings of $39.5 million. As of December 2, 2017, approximately $6.4 million balance of cumulative positive earnings of some of our foreign subsidiaries are still considered permanently reinvested pursuant to ASC 740-30. Due to various tax attributes that are continuously changing, it is not practicable to determine what, if any, tax liability may exist if such earnings were to be repatriated. 

As of December 2, 2017, our worldwide liability for uncertain tax positions related to continuing operations was $0.1 million, excluding interest and penalties, as compared to $0.0 as of May 27, 2017. The change to the uncertain tax positions for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 was as a result of the preliminary German audit assessments and the related exposure for the open years. We record penalties and interest relating to uncertain tax positions in the income tax expense line item within the unaudited consolidated statements of income (loss). It is not expected that there will be a change to unrecognized tax benefits within the next 12 months. 

The valuation allowance against the net deferred tax assets has increased to $9.5 million as of December 2, 2017 driven primarily by the Illinois income tax rate increase and the impact on the overall federal and Illinois deferred tax assets as well as additional domestic federal and state net deferred tax assets generated during the first two quarters of fiscal year 2018 due to additional losses in the U.S. jurisdiction. The valuation allowance against the net deferred tax assets that will more likely than not be realized was $8.5 million as of May 27, 2017. A full valuation allowance on the U.S. and state deferred tax assets will be maintained until sufficient positive evidence related to sources of future taxable income exists to support a reversal of the valuation allowance. The amount of the deferred tax asset considered realizable, however, could be adjusted if estimates of future taxable income during the carryforward period are increased, or if objective negative evidence in the form of cumulative losses is no longer present and additional weight may be given to subjective evidence such as our projections for growth. 

 9. CALCULATION OF EARNINGS PER SHARE 

We have authorized 17,000,000 shares of common stock, and 3,000,000 shares of Class B common stock. The Class B common stock has 10 votes per share and has transferability restrictions; however, Class B common stock may be converted into common stock on a share-for-share basis at any time. With respect to dividends and distributions, shares of common stock and Class B common stock rank equally and have the same rights, except that Class B common stock cash dividends are limited to 90% of the amount of Class A common stock cash dividends. 

In accordance with ASC 260-10, Earnings Per Share (“ASC 260”), our Class B common stock is considered a participating security requiring the use of the two-class method for the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share. The two-class computation method for each period reflects the cash dividends paid per share for each class of stock, plus the amount of allocated undistributed earnings per share computed using the participation percentage which reflects the dividend rights of each class of stock. Basic and diluted earnings per share were computed using the two-class method as prescribed in ASC 260. The shares of Class B common stock are considered to be participating convertible securities since the shares of Class B common stock are convertible on a share-for-share basis into shares of common stock and may participate in dividends with common stock according to a predetermined formula which is 90% of the amount of Class A common stock cash dividends.  










Power and Microwave Technologies Group (“PMT”) combines our core engineered solutions, power grid and microwave tube business with new RF and power technologies. As a manufacturer and authorized distributor, PMT’s strategy is to provide specialized technical expertise and engineered solutions based on our core engineering and manufacturing capabilities. We provide solutions and add value through design-in support, systems integration, prototype design and manufacturing, testing, logistics, and aftermarket technical service and repair—all through our existing global infrastructure. PMT’s focus is on products for power, RF and microwave applications for customers in alternative energy, aviation, broadcast, communications, industrial, marine, medical, military, scientific, and semiconductor markets. PMT focuses on various applications including broadcast transmission, CO2 laser cutting, diagnostic imaging, dielectric and induction heating, high energy transfer, high voltage switching, plasma, power conversion, radar, and radiation oncology. PMT also offers its customers technical services for both microwave and industrial equipment. 

Canvys provides customized display solutions serving the corporate enterprise, financial, healthcare, industrial, and medical original equipment manufacturers (“OEM”) markets. 

Healthcare manufactures, refurbishes and distributes high value replacement parts for the healthcare market including hospitals, medical centers, asset management companies, independent service organizations, and multi-vendor service providers. Products include Diagnostic Imaging replacement parts for CT and MRI systems; replacement CT and MRI tubes; CT service training; MRI coils, cold heads, and RF amplifiers; hydrogen thyratrons, klystrons, magnetrons; flat panel detector upgrades; and additional replacement solutions currently under development for the diagnostic imaging service market. Through a combination of newly developed products and partnerships, service offerings, and training programs, we believe we can help our customers improve efficiency and deliver better clinical outcomes while lowering the cost of healthcare delivery. 

The CEO evaluates performance and allocates resources primarily based on the gross profit of each segment. 







    (1)   Other includes primarily net sales not allocated to a specific geographical region, unabsorbed value-add costs and other unallocated expenses.    



On December 5, 2017, Steven H. Busch filed a Verified Stockholder Derivative Complaint against Edward J. Richardson, Paul Plante, Jacques Belin, James Benham, Kenneth Halverson, and the Company in the Delaware Court of Chancery, captioned Steven H. Busch v. Edward J. Richardson, et al., C.A. No. 2017-0868-AGB. The lawsuit alleges claims for breach of fiduciary duty by the Company’s directors and challenges the decision of a special committee of the Company’s Board to refuse Mr. Busch’s demand that the Company’s Board, among other things, rescind the Company’s May 2013 repurchase of stock from Mr. Richardson and May 2013 and October 2014 repurchases of Company stock from the Richardson Wildlife Foundation. The Company believes the lawsuit to be without merit and that a loss is not probable or estimable based on the information available at the time the financial statements were issued. 


12. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS 

ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (“ASC 820”), defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. 


As of December 2, 2017 and May 27, 2017, we held investments that are required to be measured at fair value on a recurring basis. Our investments consist of time deposits and CDs, where face value is equal to fair value, and equity securities of publicly traded companies for which market prices are readily available. 



13. Related Party Transaction 

On June 15, 2015, the Company entered into a lease agreement for the IMES facility with LDL, LLC. The Executive Vice President of IMES, Lee A. McIntyre III (former owner of IMES), has an ownership interest in LDL, LLC. The lease agreement provides for monthly payments over five years with total future minimum lease payments of $0.4 million. Rental expense related to this lease amounted to $0.1 million for the six months ended December 2, 2017 and for the six months ended November 26, 2016. The Company shall be entitled to extend the term of the lease for a period of an additional five years by notifying the landlord in writing of its intention to do so within nine months of the expiration of the initial term. 


On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“TCJA”) enacted significant changes to many elements of the United States Federal Internal Revenue Code. Due to the recent enactment of the TCJA and expected further rulemaking and future regulatory guidance, a comprehensive estimate of the overall tax impact to the Company cannot be made at this time. However, the Company anticipates that in the third quarter of fiscal 2018, the TCJA will potentially result in a discrete tax impact related to revaluing our U.S. federal deferred tax assets and liabilities, a discrete tax impact associated with currently including incremental earnings from our non-U.S. entities in the U.S. federal income tax base and a change to the Company’s fiscal 2018 estimated annual tax rate due to the tax rate reduction. These changes will impact the Company’s fiscal 2018 third quarter deferred income tax assets and liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Certain adjustments, but not all, will be offset by an adjustment to the valuation allowance. The impact on the Company’s cash flow from operations cannot be reasonably determined at this time. 


  ITEM 2.    MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

Certain statements in this report may constitute “forward-looking” statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The terms “may,” “should,” “could,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “continues,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “objective,” “plan,” “potential,” “project” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. These statements are based on management’s current expectations, intentions or beliefs and are subject to a number of factors, assumptions and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences or that might otherwise impact the business include the risk factors set forth in Item 1A, of our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on July 31, 2017. We undertake no obligation to update any such factor or to publicly announce the results of any revisions to any forward-looking statements contained herein whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 

In addition, while we do, from time to time, communicate with securities analysts, it is against our policy to disclose to them any material non-public information or other confidential commercial information. Accordingly, stockholders should not assume that we agree with any statement or report issued by any analyst irrespective of the content of the statement or report. Thus, to the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts, or opinions, such reports are not our responsibility. 

INTRODUCTION 



Business Overview 

Richardson Electronics, Ltd. is a leading global provider of engineered solutions, power grid and microwave tubes and related consumables; power conversion and RF and microwave components; high value flat panel detector solutions, replacement parts, tubes and service training for diagnostic imaging equipment; and customized display solutions. We serve customers in the alternative energy, healthcare, aviation, broadcast, communications, industrial, marine, medical, military, scientific and semiconductor markets. The Company’s strategy is to provide specialized technical expertise and “engineered solutions” based on our core engineering and manufacturing capabilities. The Company provides solutions and adds value through design-in support, systems integration, prototype design and manufacturing, testing, logistics, and aftermarket technical service and repair through its global infrastructure. 

Our products include electron tubes and related components, microwave generators, subsystems used in semiconductor manufacturing, and visual technology solutions. These products are used to control, switch or amplify electrical power signals, or are used as display devices in a variety of industrial, commercial, medical, and communication applications. 


Power and Microwave Technologies Group (“PMT”) combines our core engineered solutions, power grid and microwave tube business with new RF and power technologies. As a manufacturer and authorized distributor, PMT’s strategy is to provide specialized technical expertise and engineered solutions based on our core engineering and manufacturing capabilities. We provide solutions and add value through design-in support, systems integration, prototype design and manufacturing, testing, logistics, and aftermarket technical service and repair—all through our existing global infrastructure. PMT’s focus is on products for power, RF and microwave applications for customers in alternative energy, aviation, broadcast, communications, industrial, marine, medical, military, scientific, and semiconductor markets. PMT focuses on various applications including broadcast transmission, CO2 laser cutting, diagnostic imaging, dielectric and induction heating, high energy transfer, high voltage switching, plasma, power conversion, radar, and radiation oncology. PMT also offers its customers technical services for both microwave and industrial equipment. 


Canvys provides customized display solutions serving the corporate enterprise, financial, healthcare, industrial, and medical original equipment manufacturers (“OEM”) markets. 

Healthcare manufactures, refurbishes and distributes high value replacement parts for the healthcare market including hospitals, medical centers, asset management companies, independent service organizations, and multi-vendor service providers. Products include Diagnostic Imaging replacement parts for CT and MRI systems; replacement CT and MRI tubes; CT service training; MRI coils, cold heads, and RF amplifiers; hydrogen thyratrons, klystrons, magnetrons; flat panel detector upgrades; and additional replacement solutions currently under development for the diagnostic imaging service market. Through a combination of newly developed products and partnerships, service offerings, and training programs, we believe we can help our customers improve efficiency and deliver better clinical outcomes while lowering the cost of healthcare delivery. 


RESULTS OF CONTINUING OPERATIONS 

Financial Summary – Three Months Ended December 2, 2017 

    ●   Net sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 were $39.1 million, an increase of 15.5%, compared to net sales of $33.8 million during the second quarter of fiscal 2017.   

    ●   Gross margin increased to 34.2% during the second quarter of fiscal 2018, compared to 32.4% during the second quarter of fiscal 2017.   

    ●    Selling, general and administrative expenses were $12.6 million, or 32.2% of net sales, for the second quarter of fiscal 2018, compared to $13.4 million, or 39.5% of net sales, for the second quarter of fiscal 2017.   

    ●    Operating income during the second quarter of fiscal 2018 was $0.8 million, compared to an operating loss of $2.4 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2017.    

    ●    Income from continuing operations during the second quarter of fiscal 2018 was $0.2 million, compared to loss from continuing operations of $2.5 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2017.    

    ●    Income from discontinued operations during the second quarter of fiscal 2018 was $1.5 million. There was no income (loss) from discontinued operations during the second quarter of fiscal 2017.   

    ●    Net income during the second quarter of fiscal 2018 was $1.7 million, compared to net loss of $2.5 million during the second quarter of fiscal 2017.   

Financial Summary – Six Months Ended December 2, 2017 

    ●   The first six months of fiscal 2018 and 2017 contained 27 and 26 weeks, respectively.    

    ●   Net sales for the first six months of fiscal 2018 were $76.1 million, an increase of 13.2%, compared to net sales of $67.2 million during the first six months of fiscal 2017.   

    ●   Gross margin increased to 33.5% during the first six months of fiscal 2018, compared to 31.6% during the first six months of fiscal 2017.   

    ●    Selling, general and administrative expenses were $24.9 million, or 32.8% of net sales, for the first six months of fiscal 2018, compared to $25.7 million, or 38.2% of net sales, for the first six months of fiscal 2017.   

    ●    Operating income during the first six months of fiscal 2018 was $0.8 million, compared to an operating loss of $4.5 million in the first six months of fiscal 2017.   

    ●    Income from continuing operations during the first six months of fiscal 2018 was $0.1 million, compared to loss from continuing operations of $5.4 million in the first six months of fiscal 2017.    

    ●    Income from discontinued operations during the first six months of fiscal 2018 was $1.5 million. There was no income (loss) from discontinued operations during the first six months of fiscal 2017.    

    ●    Net income during the first six months of fiscal 2018 was $1.6 million, compared to net loss of $5.4 million during the first six months of fiscal 2017.   


Net Sales and Gross Profit Analysis 




During the second quarter of fiscal 2018 consolidated net sales increased 15.5% compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2017. Sales for PMT increased 19.2%, sales for Canvys increased 23.3% and sales for Healthcare decreased 26.8%. The increase in PMT was due to sales of power grid tubes as well as specialty products manufactured in LaFox which are sold into the semiconductor capital equipment market and sales from new technology partners in power conversion and RF and microwave components. The increase for Canvys was primarily due to increased customer demand in our European market. The decrease in Richardson Healthcare was due to the sale of the PACS display business at the end of fiscal 2017 which was partially offset by higher sales of certified pre-owned CT tubes. 

During the first six months of fiscal 2018 consolidated net sales increased 13.2% compared to the first six months of fiscal 2017. Sales for PMT increased 16.9%, sales for Canvys increased 24.0%, and sales for Healthcare decreased 32.4%. The increase in PMT was due to specialty products manufactured in LaFox sold to the semiconductor capital market and new technology partners in power conversion and RF and microwave components. The increase for Canvys was due to increased customer demand in our North American and European markets. The decrease in Richardson Healthcare was due to the sale of the PACS display business at the end of fiscal 2017 which was partially offset by higher sales of refurbished equipment and certified pre-owned CT tubes. 




Gross profit reflects the distribution and manufacturing product margin less manufacturing variances, inventory obsolescence charges, customer returns, scrap and cycle count adjustments, engineering costs, unabsorbed manufacturing labor and overhead, and other provisions. 


Consolidated gross profit increased to $13.4 million during the second quarter of fiscal 2018, compared to $11.0 million during the second quarter of fiscal 2017. Consolidated gross margin as a percentage of net sales increased to 34.2% during the second quarter of fiscal 2018, from 32.4% during the second quarter of fiscal 2017, primarily due to favorable product mix for PMT, favorable product mix and lower costs on selected products for Canvys and the sale of the PACS display business, which generated lower margins in our Healthcare business. 

Consolidated gross profit increased to $25.5 million during the first six months of fiscal 2018, compared to $21.2 million during the first six months of fiscal 2017. Consolidated gross margin as a percentage of net sales increased to 33.5% during the first six months of fiscal 2018, from 31.6% during the first six months of fiscal 2017, primarily due to favorable product mix for PMT, favorable product mix and lower costs on selected products for Canvys and the sale of the PACS display business, which generated lower margins in our Healthcare business. 

Power and Microwave Technologies Group 

PMT net sales increased 19.2% to $30.1 million during the second quarter of fiscal 2018, from $25.2 million during the second quarter of fiscal 2017. The increase included sales of power grid tubes as well as specialty products manufactured in LaFox which are sold primarily into the semiconductor capital equipment market and sales from new technology partners in power conversion and RF and microwave components. Gross margin as a percentage of net sales increased to 34.1% during the second quarter of fiscal 2018, as compared to 32.8% during the second quarter of fiscal 2017, due to product mix and favorable manufacturing results from our LaFox production facility. 

PMT net sales increased 16.9% to $59.2 million during the first six months of fiscal 2018, from $50.6 million during the first six months of fiscal 2017. The increase included sales of specialty products manufactured in LaFox which are sold primarily into the semiconductor capital equipment market and sales from new technology partners in power conversion and RF and microwave components. Gross margin as a percentage of net sales increased to 33.5% during the first six months of fiscal 2018, as compared to 31.1% during the six months of fiscal 2017, due to favorable product mix. 

Canvys 

Canvys net sales increased 23.3% to $6.7 million during the second quarter of fiscal 2018, from $5.4 million during the second quarter of fiscal 2017 primarily due to increased customer demand in our European market. Gross margin as a percentage of net sales increased to 31.7% during the second quarter of fiscal 2018 as compared to 28.4% during the second quarter of fiscal 2017, due to favorable product mix and lower costs on selected products sold. 

Canvys net sales increased 24.0% to $12.5 million during the first six months of fiscal 2018, from $10.1 million during the first six months of fiscal 2017 due to increased customer demand in our North American and European markets. Gross margin as a percentage of net sales increased to 29.5% during the first six months of fiscal 2018 as compared to 28.7% during the first six months of fiscal 2017, due to favorable product mix and lower costs on selected products sold. 

Healthcare 

Healthcare net sales decreased 26.8% to $2.3 million during the second quarter of fiscal 2018, from $3.2 million during the second quarter of fiscal 2017 due to the sale of the PACS display business at the end of fiscal 2017, partially offset by an increase in the sales of certified pre-owned CT Tubes. Gross margin as a percentage of net sales increased to 42.6% during the second quarter of fiscal 2018 as compared to 36.3% during the second quarter of fiscal 2017 due to the sale of the PACS display business, which generated lower margins. 

Healthcare net sales decreased 32.4% to $4.4 million during the first six months of fiscal 2018, from $6.5 million during the first six months of fiscal 2017 due to the sale of the PACS display business at the end of fiscal 2017, partially offset by an increase in the sales of certified pre-owned CT Tubes and Equipment. Gross margin as a percentage of net sales increased to 45.5% during the first six months of fiscal 2018 as compared to 39.6% during the first six months of fiscal 2017 due to the sale of the PACS display business, which generated lower margins. 

Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses 







Income Tax Provision 

We recorded an income tax provision from continuing operations of $0.6 million and $0.8 million for the first six months of fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, respectively. The effective income tax rate from continuing operations during the first six months of fiscal 2018 was a tax provision of 90.9% as compared to a tax provision of (18.3%) during the first six months of fiscal 2017. The difference in rate during the first six months of fiscal 2018, as compared to the first six months of fiscal 2017, reflects the change in the overall loss realized through the second quarter in each respective period, changes in our geographical distribution of income (loss), the recording of provision to return true-ups of various foreign jurisdictions, the accrual of an uncertain tax position with respect to the ongoing German audit and our positions with respect to ASC 740-30, Income Taxes - Other Considerations or Special Areas (“ASC 740-30”). The 90.9% effective income tax rate differs from the federal statutory rate of 34.0% as a result of our geographical distribution of income (loss), the recording of a valuation allowance against the increase in our U.S. state and federal net deferred tax assets and recognition of an uncertain tax position and preliminary tax assessments with respect to the income tax audit in Germany.  

In the normal course of business, we are subject to examination by taxing authorities throughout the world. Generally, years prior to fiscal 2007 are closed for examination under the statute of limitation for U.S. federal, U.S. state and local or non-U.S. tax jurisdictions. We are currently under examination in Thailand (fiscal 2008 through 2011). We are also under examination in the state of Illinois for fiscal years 2014 and 2015. Our primary foreign tax jurisdictions are Germany and the Netherlands. During the second quarter of fiscal 2018, the examination in Germany of years 2012-2014 resulted in preliminary findings and a tax assessment and additional uncertain tax position reserve for open tax years have been recorded in the amount of $0.2 million. We have tax years open in Germany beginning in fiscal 2015 and the Netherlands beginning in fiscal 2011. 

Recently Issued Accounting Standards 



Net Income (Loss) and Per Share Data 

Net income, including income from discontinued operations of $1.5 million, during the second quarter of fiscal 2018 was $1.7 million or $0.13 per diluted common share and $0.12 per Class B diluted common share, as compared to net loss of $2.5 million during the second quarter of fiscal 2017, or ($0.20) per diluted common share and ($0.18) per Class B diluted common share. 

Net income, including income from discontinued operations of $1.5 million, during the first six months of fiscal 2018 was $1.6 million, or $0.12 per diluted common share and $0.11 per Class B diluted common share, as compared to net loss of $5.4 million during the first six months of fiscal 2017, or ($0.43) per diluted common share and ($0.38) per Class B diluted common share. 

LIQUIDITY, FINANCIAL POSITION AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 

Our operations and cash needs have been primarily financed through income from operations and cash on hand. 



We believe that the existing sources of liquidity, including current cash, will provide sufficient resources to meet known capital requirements and working capital needs through the next twelve months. 

Cash Flows from Operating Activities 

The cash used in operating activities primarily resulted from adjustments for non-cash items and changes in our operating assets and liabilities. 

Operating activities used $2.3 million of cash during the first six months of fiscal 2018. We had net income of $1.6 million during the first six months of fiscal 2018, which included non-cash stock-based compensation expense of $0.3 million associated with the issuance of stock option and restricted stock awards and depreciation and amortization expense of $1.5 million associated with our property and equipment as well as amortization of our intangible assets. Changes in our operating assets and liabilities during the first six months of fiscal 2018, net of foreign currency exchange gains and losses, included an increase in inventories of $4.6 million, a decrease of $1.0 million in accounts payable and an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of $0.6 million. The inventory increase was due to the ongoing growth of our RF and power technologies business, increase in raw material and work in process supporting the semiconductor capital equipment market and growth in supplying replacement systems and parts to the Healthcare market. The decrease in our accounts payable was due to timing of payments for some of our larger vendors for both inventory and services. 

Operating activities used $1.9 million of cash during the first six months of fiscal 2017. We had net loss of $5.4 million during the first six months of fiscal 2017, which included non-cash stock-based compensation expense of $0.3 million associated with the issuance of stock option awards, deferred income tax credit adjustment of $0.3 million, and depreciation and amortization expense of $1.3 million associated with our property and equipment as well as amortization of our intangible assets. Changes in our operating assets and liabilities during the first six months of fiscal 2017, net of foreign currency exchange gains and losses, included an increase of $1.0 million in prepaid expenses and a decrease of $3.2 million in accounts payable, partially offset by decreases in receivables of $3.9 million, inventories of $1.6 million, and an increase in other accrued liabilities of $0.9 million. The decrease in receivables of $3.9 million was primarily due to the collection of a large receivable during the first quarter of fiscal 2017 that was invoiced during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016. The inventory decrease was due to decreases in selected electron tubes. The decrease in our accounts payable was due to timing of payments for some of our larger vendors and also the result of shorter payment terms for our Richardson Healthcare vendors. 


Cash Flows from Investing Activities 

The cash flow from investing activities has consisted primarily of purchases and maturities of investments and capital expenditures. 

Cash provided by investing activities of $1.8 million during the first six months of fiscal 2018 included proceeds from the maturities of investments of $8.2 million, partially offset by $3.9 million from purchases of investments and $2.7 million in capital expenditures. Capital expenditures relates primarily to our Healthcare growth initiatives, a new roof for part of our warehouse and capital used for our new IT system. 

Cash used by investing activities of $1.9 million during the first six months of fiscal 2017, included proceeds from the maturities of investments of $3.6 million, offset by $2.1 million from purchases of investments and $3.3 million in capital expenditures. Capital expenditures relates primarily to our Healthcare growth initiatives and capital used for our new IT system. 

Our purchases and proceeds from investments consist of time deposits and CDs. Purchasing of future investments may vary from period to period due to interest and foreign currency exchange rates. 

Cash Flows from Financing Activities 

The cash flow from financing activities consists of cash dividends paid. 

Cash used in financing activities of $1.5 million during the first six months of fiscal 2018 resulted from cash used to pay dividends. 

Cash used in financing activities of $1.5 million during the first six months of fiscal 2017, resulted from cash used to pay dividends. 

Dividend payments for the first six months of fiscal 2018 were approximately $1.5 million. All future payments of dividends are at the discretion of the Board of Directors. Dividend payments will depend on earnings, capital requirements, operating conditions, and such other factors that the Board may deem relevant. 


  ITEM 3.   QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK    

Risk Management and Market Sensitive Financial Instruments 

We are exposed to many different market risks with the various industries we serve. The primary financial risk we are exposed to is foreign currency exchange, as certain operations, assets and liabilities of ours are denominated in foreign currencies. We manage these risks through normal operating and financing activities. 

The interpretation and analysis of these disclosures should not be considered in isolation since such variances in exchange rates would likely influence other economic factors. Such factors, which are not readily quantifiable, would likely also affect our operations. Additional disclosure regarding various market risks are set forth in Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors“ of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended May 27, 2017, filed July 31, 2017. 

  ITEM 4.   CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES    

  (a)   Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures    

Management of the Company, with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”)) as of December 2, 2017. 

Disclosure controls and procedures are intended to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed in the Company’s Exchange Act reports is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified by the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to management, including the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Based on this evaluation, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this report. 

  (b)   Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting    

There were no changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting identified in connection with the evaluation required by paragraph (d) of Exchange Act Rules 13a-15 or 15d-15 that occurred during the second quarter of fiscal 2018 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.  


PART II. OTHER INFORMATION 

  ITEM 1.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS    

On December 5, 2017, Steven H. Busch filed a Verified Stockholder Derivative Complaint against Edward J. Richardson, Paul Plante, Jacques Belin, James Benham, Kenneth Halverson, and the Company in the Delaware Court of Chancery, captioned Steven H. Busch v. Edward J. Richardson, et al., C.A. No. 2017-0868-AGB. The lawsuit alleges claims for breach of fiduciary duty by the Company’s directors and challenges the decision of a special committee of the Company’s Board to refuse Mr. Busch’s demand that the Company’s Board, among other things, rescind the Company’s May 2013 repurchase of stock from Mr. Richardson and May 2013 and October 2014 repurchases of Company stock from the Richardson Wildlife Foundation. The Company believes the lawsuit to be without merit and that a loss is not probable or estimable based on the information available at the time the financial statements were issued. 

  ITEM 1A.   RISK FACTORS    

There have been no material changes to the risk factors previously disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended May 27, 2017, filed July 31, 2017. 

  ITEM 2.   UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS   

  ITEM 5.   OTHER INFORMATION    

Results of Operation and Financial Condition and Declaration of Dividend 

On January 10, 2018, we issued a press release reporting results for our second quarter ended December 2, 2017, and the declaration of a cash dividend. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 10-Q and incorporated by reference herein. 


See exhibit index which is incorporated by reference herein. 


SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 



Exhibit Index 


