UNITED STATES 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 



Quarterly report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 

For the quarterly period ended July 31, 2019 


RF INDUSTRIES, LTD. 







Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes x No o 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files.) Yes x No o 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 


If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. o  


The number of shares of the issuer’s Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, outstanding as of September 5, 2019 was 9,392,351. 

Part I. FINANCIAL INFORMATION 

Item 1: Financial Statements 

RF INDUSTRIES, LTD. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 



See Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 


Item 1: Financial Statements (continued) 

RF INDUSTRIES, LTD. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 



See Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 


Item 1: Financial Statements (continued) 

RF INDUSTRIES, LTD. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 




See Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 


Item 1: Financial Statements (continued) 

RF INDUSTRIES, LTD. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY 





See Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 


Item 1: Financial Statements (continued) 

RF INDUSTRIES, LTD. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY 





See Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 


Item 1: Financial Statements (continued) 

RF INDUSTRIES, LTD. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 




See Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 


RF INDUSTRIES, LTD. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

Note 1 - Unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements 

The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of RF Industries, Ltd. and its divisions and three wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively, hereinafter the “Company”) have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q. Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America for complete financial statements. In the opinion of management, all adjustments, which are normal and recurring, have been included in order to make the information not misleading. Information included in the consolidated balance sheet as of October 31, 2018 has been derived from, and certain terms used herein are defined in, the audited consolidated financial statements of the Company as of October 31, 2018 included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K (“Form 10-K”) for the year ended October 31, 2018 that was previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Operating results for the nine months ended July 31, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the year ending October 31, 2019. The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and footnotes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 2018. 

Principles of consolidation 

The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for the periods ended on or before January 31, 2019 include the accounts of RF Industries, Ltd. and its two wholly-owned subsidiaries, Cables Unlimited, Inc. (“Cables Unlimited”) and Rel-Tech Electronics, Inc. (“Rel-Tech”). The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for the three and nine months ended July 31, 2019 include the accounts of RF Industries, Ltd., Cables Unlimited, Rel-Tech, and C Enterprises, Inc. (“C Enterprises”), a wholly-owned subsidiary that RF Industries, Ltd. formed for the sole purpose of acquiring the business and assets of C Enterprises, L.P. The acquisition of the business and assets of C Enterprises, L.P. was completed on March 15, 2019. For all periods on or before January 31, 2019, references herein to the “Company” shall refer to RF Industries, Ltd., Cables Unlimited, and Rel-Tech, and for all periods after January 31, 2019, references to the “Company” shall refer to RF Industries, Ltd., Cables Unlimited, Rel-Tech, and C Enterprises, collectively. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. 

Reclassifications 

Certain amounts in the prior period condensed consolidated financial statements and notes have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation of continuing operations and discontinued operations (see Note 3). These reclassifications had no effect on reported consolidated net income. 

Fair value measurements 


Level 1 - Quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets; 

Level 2 - Quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active, and model-derived valuations in which all significant inputs and significant value drivers are observable in active markets; and 

Level 3 - Valuations derived from valuation techniques in which one or more significant inputs or significant value drivers are unobservable. 

As of July 31, 2019 and October 31, 2018, the carrying amounts reflected in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets for cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and accrued liabilities approximated their carrying value due to their short-term nature. 

Revenue recognition 



Recent accounting standards 


In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases. This ASU requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets related to the rights and obligations created by those leases. The ASU also requires additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures related to the nature, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements. 

In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-04, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other, which simplifies the accounting for goodwill impairments by eliminating step 2 from the goodwill impairment test. Instead, if “the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss shall be recognized in an amount equal to that excess, limited to the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.” The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements. 



Note 2 - Business Acquisition 

On March 15, 2019, through C Enterprises, Inc., its newly formed subsidiary, the Company purchased the business and assets of C Enterprises L.P., a California based designer and manufacturer of quality connectivity solutions to telecommunications and data communications distributors. In consideration for the C Enterprises business and assets, the Company paid $600,000 in cash and assumed certain liabilities. The acquisition was determined not to be material and was accounted for in accordance with the acquisition method of accounting, and the acquired assets and assumed liabilities were recorded by the Company at their estimated fair values in accordance with ASC 805, Business Combinations. There were no intangible assets identified as part of the acquisition. 

The results of C Enterprises, Inc.’s operations subsequent to March 15, 2019 have been included in the results of the Custom Cabling Manufacturing and Assembly segment (“Custom Cabling segment”) as well as in the Company’s consolidated statements of operations. Costs related to the acquisition of C Enterprises were approximately $100,000 and have been expensed as incurred and categorized in selling and general expenses. For the three and nine months ended July 31, 2019, C Enterprises, Inc. contributed $2.9 million and $4.5 million of revenue, respectively. 

Note 3 - Discontinued operations  





Note 4 - Inventories and major vendors 



Two vendors accounted for 23% and 14% of inventory purchases for the three months ended July 31, 2019. For the nine months ended July 31, 2019, the same two vendors accounted for 17% and 14% of inventory purchases, respectively. For the three months ended July 31, 2018, one vendor accounted for 50% of inventory purchases. This same vendor accounted for 47% of inventory purchases for the nine months ended July 31, 2018. The Company has arrangements with these vendors to purchase products based on purchase orders periodically issued by the Company. 

Note 5 - Other current assets 




Note 6 - Accrued expenses 



Accrued receipts represent purchased inventory for which invoices have not been received. 

Note 7 - Earnings per share 

Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing consolidated net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share is computed by dividing consolidated net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding increased by the effects of assuming that other potentially dilutive securities (such as stock options) outstanding during the period had been exercised and the treasury stock method had been applied. Potentially issuable securities totaling 124,097 and 0 shares for the three months ended July 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and 124,097 and 245,328 shares for the nine months ended July 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, were excluded from the calculation of diluted per share amounts because of their anti-dilutive effect. 



Note 8 - Stock-based compensation and equity transactions 

On December 13, 2017, the Company granted 80,000 incentive stock options to an employee. These options vested 8,000 shares on the date of grant, and the balance vests as to 8,000 shares per year thereafter on each of the next nine anniversaries of December 13, 2017, and expire ten years from the date of grant. On December 3, 2018, the Company granted each of two employees 25,000 incentive stock options. These options vested 5,000 each on the date of grant, and the balance vests as to 5,000 shares each per year thereafter on each of the next four anniversaries of December 3, 2018, and expire ten years from the date of grant. On December 3, 2018, the Company also granted one employee 10,000 incentive stock options. These options vested 2,000 shares on the date of grant, and the balance vests as to 2,000 shares per year thereafter on each of the next four anniversaries of December 3, 2018, and expire ten years from the date of grant. On March 8, 2019, the Company granted one employee 25,000 incentive stock options. These options vested 5,000 on the date of grant, and the balance vests as to 5,000 shares per year thereafter on each of the next four anniversaries of March 8, 2019, and expire ten years from the date of grant. No other incentive stock options were granted to Company employees during the three and nine months ended July 31, 2019 and 2018. 



Expected volatilities are based on historical volatility of the Company’s stock price and other factors. The Company used the historical method to calculate the expected life of the 2019 and 2018 option grants. The expected life represents the period of time that options granted are expected to be outstanding. The risk-free rate is based on the U.S. Treasury rate with a maturity date corresponding to the options’ expected life. The dividend yield is based upon the historical dividend yield. 


Company stock option plans 









As of July 31, 2019, $492,000 of expense with respect to nonvested share-based arrangements has yet to be recognized but is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 5.35 years. 

Non-employee directors receive a compensation package of $50,000 annually, which is paid one-half in cash and one-half through the grant of non-qualified stock options to purchase shares of the Company’s common stock. During the quarter ended January 31, 2019, the Company granted each of its five non-employee directors 7,203 non-qualified stock options. The options have an exercise price of $8.07 per share. The number of stock options granted to each director was determined by dividing $25,000 by the fair value of a stock option grant using the Black-Scholes model ($3.471 per share). These options vest ratably over fiscal year 2019 and expire five years from the date of grant. Effective November 1, 2018, in addition to the compensation received for serving on the Board of Directors, the Chairman of each committee of the Board will receive $15,000 per year in cash for services rendered as Chairman. On June 7, 2019, a new director joined the Board. The Company granted the new director 3,082 non-qualified stock options with an exercise price of $7.50 per share. The number of stock options granted to this director was determined by dividing $10,000 of compensation (prorated for the period as an active director) by the fair value of a stock option grant using the Black-Scholes model ($3.245 per share). These options vest ratably over fiscal year 2019 and expire five years from the date of grant. No other non-qualified stock options were granted during the three and nine months ended July 31, 2019. 

Stock option expense 

During the nine months ended July 31, 2019 and 2018, stock-based compensation expense totaled $260,000 and $189,000, respectively, and was classified in selling and general expenses. During the three months ended July 31, 2019 and 2018, stock-based compensation expense totaled $68,000 and $57,000, respectively, and was classified in selling and general expenses. 

Note 9 - Concentrations of credit risk 

Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents and accounts receivable. The Company maintains its cash and cash equivalents with high-credit quality financial institutions. At July 31, 2019, the Company had cash and cash equivalent balances in excess of federally insured limits in the amount of approximately $11.8 million. 

Two customers, a distributor (“Distributor A”) and an equipment manufacturer, accounted for approximately 23% and 19%, respectively, of the Company’s net sales for the nine-month period ended July 31, 2019. The equipment manufacturer’s accounts receivable balance accounted for 47% of the total net accounts receivable balance at July 31, 2019, while a different distributor (“Distributor B”) had an accounts receivable balance that accounted for 11% of the total net accounts receivable balance at July 31, 2019. For the three-month period ended July 31, 2019, Distributor B and the equipment manufacturer accounted for approximately 11% and 35%, respectively, of the Company’s net sales. 


For the nine-month period ended July 31, 2018, one customer who is a distributor, accounted for approximately 65% of the Company’s net sales. This same customer accounted for approximately 59% of the Company’s net sales for the three-month period ended July 31, 2018. At July 31, 2018, this customer’s accounts receivable balance accounted for approximately 61% of the total net accounts receivable balance. 

Although these customers have been on-going major customers of the Company, the written agreements with these customers do not have any minimum purchase obligations and they could stop buying the Company’s products at any time and for any reason. A reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from these customers or the loss of these customers could significantly reduce the Company’s future revenues and profits. 

Note 10 - Segment information 


As of July 31, 2019, the RF Connector segment consisted of one division and the Custom Cabling segment was composed of three divisions. The four divisions that met the quantitative thresholds for segment reporting are the RF Connector and Cable Assembly division (“RF Connector division”), Cables Unlimited, Rel-Tech, and C Enterprises. While each segment had similar products and services, with one major exception, there was little overlapping of these services to their customer base. In addition, sales of product and services for the RF Connector segment were primarily through the distribution channel while the Custom Cabling segment sales were through a combination of distribution and direct to the end customer. 

Management identifies the Company’s segments based on strategic business units that are, in turn, based along market lines. These strategic business units offer products and services to different markets in accordance with their customer base and product usage. For segment reporting purposes, the RF Connector division constitutes the RF Connector segment, and the Cables Unlimited, Rel-Tech, and C Enterprises divisions constitute the Custom Cabling segment. 

As reviewed by the Company’s chief operating decision maker, the Company evaluates the performance of each segment based on income or loss before income taxes. The Company charges depreciation and amortization directly to each division within the segment. Accounts receivable, inventory, property and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets are the only assets identified by segment. Except as discussed above, the accounting policies for segment reporting are the same for the Company as a whole. 








Note 11 - Income taxes 

On December 22, 2017, the U.S. President signed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”). The Tax Act, among other things, lowered the U.S. corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018. In December 2017, the SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, Income Tax Accounting Implications of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (SAB 118), which allowed us to record provisional amounts during a measurement period not to extend beyond one year of the enactment date. As a result, we previously recorded a provisional estimate of the effect of the Tax Act in our financial statements. In the first quarter of 2019, we completed our analysis to determine the effect of the Tax Act and recorded no additional adjustments as of December 22, 2018. 

The Company uses an estimated annual effective tax rate, which is based on expected annual income, statutory tax rates and tax planning opportunities available in the various jurisdictions in which the Company operates, to determine its quarterly provision (benefit) for income taxes. Certain significant or unusual items are separately recognized in the quarter in which they occur and can be a source of variability in the effective tax rates from quarter to quarter. 

The provision for income taxes was 22% and 19% of income before income taxes for the three months ended July 31, 2019 (the “fiscal 2019 quarter”) and 2018 (the “fiscal 2018 quarter”), respectively, and 22% and 20% of income before income taxes for the nine months ended July 31, 2019 and 2018. The increase in the effective tax rate from period to period was primarily driven by the elimination of the benefit from the domestic production activities deduction and the one-time benefit recorded in the prior year related to the reduction in the Company’s deferred tax liability due to the change in the federal tax rate, both as a result of the Tax Act. The Company recorded income from discontinued operations, net of tax, as disclosed in Note 3. 


The Company had $90,000 and $58,000 of unrecognized tax benefits, inclusive of interest and penalties, as of July 31, 2019 and October 31, 2018, respectively. The unrecognized tax benefits, if recognized, would result in a net tax benefit of $21,000 as of July 31, 2019. 

Note 12 - Intangible assets 



Amortization expense for the nine months ended July 31, 2019 and the year ended October 31, 2018 was $206,000 and $275,000, respectively. As of July 31, 2019, the weighted-average amortization period for the amortizable intangible assets is 10.98 years. 

Note 13 - Commitments 

The Company currently leases its corporate headquarters and RF connector and cable assembly manufacturing facilities in San Diego, California. On June 5, 2017, the Company entered into a fifth amendment to its lease for its facility in San Diego, California. As a result, the Company now leases a total of approximately 21,908 square feet of office, warehouse and manufacturing space at its San Diego location. The term of the lease expires on July 31, 2022, and the rental payments under the lease currently are $26,176 per month. The San Diego lease also requires the payment of the Company’s pro rata share of real estate taxes and insurance, maintenance and other operating expenses related to the facilities. 


As of July 31, 2019, the aggregate monthly rental for all of the Company’s facilities is approximately $76,000 per month, plus utilities, maintenance and insurance. 


Note 14 - Cash dividend and declared dividends 

The Company paid dividends of $0.02 per share during the three months ended July 31, 2019 and 2018 for a total of $187,000 and $185,000, respectively. The Company paid dividends of $0.02 per share during the nine months ended July 31, 2019 and 2018 for a total of $560,000 and $544,000, respectively.  

Note 15 - Subsequent event 

On September 9, 2019, the Board of Directors of the Company declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.02 per share to be paid on October 15, 2019 to stockholders of record on September 30, 2019. 


Item 2: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  

This report contains forward-looking statements. These statements relate to future events or the Company’s future financial performance. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “except,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “predict,” “potential” or “continue,” the negative of such terms or other comparable terminology. These statements are only predictions. Actual events or results may differ materially. 

Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, the Company cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. Moreover, neither the Company, nor any other person, assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of the forward-looking statements. The Company is under no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements after the filing of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to conform such statements to actual results or to changes in its expectations. 

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes and other financial information appearing elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. Readers are also urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures made by the Company which attempt to advise interested parties of the factors which affect the Company’s business, including without limitation the disclosures made under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” under the caption “Risk Factors,” and the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes included in the Company’s Annual Report filed on Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 2018 and other reports and filings made with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

Critical Accounting Policies 


On March 15, 2019, through C Enterprises, Inc. (“C Enterprises”), its newly formed subsidiary, the Company purchased the business and assets of C Enterprises L.P., a California based designer and manufacturer of quality connectivity solutions to telecommunications and data communications distributors. The acquisition was determined not to be material and was accounted for in accordance with the acquisition method of accounting, and the acquired assets and assumed liabilities were recorded by the Company at their estimated fair values in accordance with ASC 805, Business Combinations. 

Inventories 

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value, with cost determined using the weighted average cost method of accounting. Certain items in inventory may be considered obsolete or excess and, as such, we periodically review our inventories for excess and slow moving items and make provisions as necessary to properly reflect inventory value. Because inventories have, during the past few years, represented up to one-fourth of our total assets, any reduction in the value of our inventories would require us to take write-offs that would affect our net worth and future earnings. 

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts 

The Company records its allowance for doubtful accounts based upon its assessment of various factors. The Company considers historical experience, the age of the accounts receivable balance, credit quality of the Company’s customers, current economic conditions and other factors that may affect a customer’s ability to pay. 


Long-Lived Assets Including Goodwill 

The Company assesses property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, which are considered definite-lived assets, for impairment. Definite-lived assets are reviewed when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. We measure recoverability of these assets by comparing the carrying amounts to the future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected to generate. If property and equipment and intangible assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized equals the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair market value. 

The Company amortizes its intangible assets with definite useful lives over their estimated useful lives and reviews these assets for impairment. 

We test our goodwill and trademarks and indefinite-lived assets for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate these assets may be impaired. These events or circumstances require significant judgment and could include a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition and sale or disposition of all or a portion of a division. This analysis requires significant judgments, including estimation of future cash flows, which is dependent on internal forecasts, estimation of the long-term rate of growth for our business, estimation of the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination of our weighted average cost of capital. 

 Income Taxes 

The Company records a tax provision for the anticipated tax consequences of the reported results of operations. Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and for operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the currently enacted tax rates as of the date of the financial statements that apply to taxable income in effect for the years in which those tax assets are expected to be realized or settled. The Company records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is believed more likely than not to be realized. 

The calculation of the tax provision involves significant judgment in estimating the impact of uncertainties in the application of GAAP and complex tax laws. Resolution of these uncertainties in a manner inconsistent with management’s expectations could have a material impact on the Company’s financial condition and operating results.  

Stock-based Compensation 

The Company uses the Black-Scholes model to value the stock option grants. This valuation is affected by the Company’s stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of inputs which involve significant judgments and estimates. These inputs include the expected term of employee stock options, the expected volatility of the stock price, the risk-free interest rate and expected dividends. 

 Overview 

RF Industries, Ltd. (together with subsidiaries, the “Company”, “we”, or “our”) is a national manufacturer and marketer of interconnect products and systems, including coaxial and specialty cables and connectors, fiber optic cables and connectors, and electrical and electronic specialty cables and components. Through its manufacturing and production facilities, the Company provides a wide selection of interconnect products and solutions primarily to telecommunications carriers and equipment manufacturers, wireless and network infrastructure carriers and manufacturers and to various original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) in several market segments. 


For the nine months ended July 31, 2019, most of the Company’s revenues were generated from the Custom Cabling segment from the sale of fiber optics cable, copper cabling, custom patch cord assemblies, and wiring harnesses (which accounted for 75% of the Company’s total sales for the nine months ended July 31, 2019). Revenues from the RF Connector segment were generated from the sales of RF connector products and connector cable assemblies and accounted for 25% of the Company’s total sales for the nine months ended July 31, 2019. 


Liquidity and Capital Resources 


   ● As of July 31, 2019, the Company had cash and cash equivalents equal to $13.3 million. 

   ● As of July 31, 2019, the Company had $32.1 million in current assets and $5.4 million in current liabilities. 

   ● As of July 31, 2019, the Company had no outstanding indebtedness for borrowed funds.  


During the fiscal year ended October 31, 2018, the Company’s backlog increased significantly to $11 million as of October 31, 2018. Since the end of fiscal year 2018, the Company has filled most of the October 31, 2018 backlog. However, the Company has continued to receive additional bookings while maintaining its level of shipments. As a result, the Company had $8 million of backlog as of the current quarter ended July 31, 2019. Since purchase orders are submitted from customers based on the timing of their requirements, the Company’s ability to predict orders in future periods or trends in future periods is limited. Furthermore, purchase orders may be subject to cancellation from customers, although the Company has not historically experienced material cancellations of purchase orders. As a result of the Company’s backlog balance as of July 31, 2019, the Company’s liquidity and available capital resources are expected to continue to improve during the remainder of the current fiscal year. 

The Company used cash of $3.0 million in operating activities during the nine months ended July 31, 2019 due largely to an increase in sales, which resulted in increased inventory purchases and an increase in outstanding accounts receivables as of quarter-end. Net income of $2.7 million, with an added increase in cash from noncash credits of $0.4 million from depreciation and amortization and $0.3 million from stock-based compensation expense, was offset by an increase in accounts receivable ($4.4 million) and inventories ($0.5 million) as well as a decrease in accrued expenses primarily due to the payout of prior year bonuses ($0.9 million) and an increase in accounts payable ($0.1 million). 

The Company used $0.9 million during the nine months ended July 31, 2019 for capital expenditures primarily for the purpose of increasing production and the purchase of the assets and business of C Enterprises. In addition, during the nine months ended July 31, 2019, the Company paid $0.6 million of cash as dividends. These net cash outlays were partially offset by $0.4 million that the Company received from the exercise of stock options. 

The Company does not anticipate needing material additional capital equipment in the next twelve months. In the past, the Company has financed some of its equipment and furnishings requirements through capital leases. No additional capital equipment purchases have been currently identified that would require significant additional leasing or capital expenditures during the next twelve months. Management also believes that based on the Company’s current financial condition, its current backlog of unfulfilled orders and its anticipated future operations, the Company would be able to finance its expansion, if necessary. 

From time to time, the Company may undertake acquisitions of other companies or product lines in order to diversify its product and solutions offerings and customer base. Conversely, the Company may undertake the disposition of a division or product line due to changes in the Company’s business strategy or market conditions. Acquisitions may require the outlay of cash, which may reduce the Company’s liquidity and capital resources while dispositions may increase the Company’s cash position, liquidity and capital resources. For example, on March 15, 2019, the Company purchased all of the assets of C Enterprises for $600,000 in cash and the assumption of certain liabilities. C Enterprises is a California based designer, manufacturer, and distributor of fiber and copper custom cables and cable assemblies, and other related products used in the data center, networking, and wireless markets. If the Company acquires other businesses in the future for a purchase price payable in whole or in part in cash, its future liquidity and capital resources could be adversely affected. The Company has previously announced its intention to make additional acquisitions in order to expand its product offerings and customer base. 

We are currently evaluating the financial impact of the import tariffs that were recently enacted in the U.S. and abroad. While we do not believe that the financial impact on the Company of the enacted tariffs will be material, we recognize that there is uncertainty related to potential costs related to these actions. 

Results of Operations 

On October 31, 2018, the Company sold all of the shares of Comnet Telecom Supply, Inc. (“Comnet”), a wholly-owned subsidiary that was part of the Company’s Custom Cabling segment. Accordingly, the Company’s results of operations for the both three and nine month periods ended July 31, 2018 have been adjusted to remove the results of Comnet, and the operating results of Comnet in 2018 are reported in the attached condensed consolidated financial statements as discontinued operations on the statement of operations. During the three months ended July 31, 2018, Comnet had net sales of $2.0 million and income from continuing operations before provision for income taxes of $0.1 million. During the nine months ended July 31, 2018, Comnet had net sales of $6.3 million and income from continuing operations before provision for income taxes of $0.4 million. Comnet was sold as part of the Company’s business transformation toward a one company culture and operating structure to more efficiently leverage its capabilities across the entire business; Comnet’s business did not match the Company’s go-to-market strategy since it operated with a different sales model and margin profile than the rest of the Company. 


On March 15, 2019, the Company acquired the assets and business of C Enterprises, L.P. The C Enterprises business is now conducted by the Company through its new C Enterprises, Inc. subsidiary. The Company paid $600,000 of cash, and assumed certain liabilities for the purchase of the C Enterprises business. The financial results of C Enterprises during the period from March 15, 2019 to July 31, 2019 are included in the results of operations for 2019. 

Three Months Ended July 31, 2019 vs. Three Months Ended July 31, 2018 

Net sales of $15.5 million increased by 31%, or $3.7 million, for the three months ended July 31, 2019 (the “fiscal 2019 quarter”) when compared to the three months ended July 31, 2018 (the “fiscal 2018 quarter”). Net sales for the fiscal 2019 quarter at the Company’s Custom Cabling segment increased by $3.4 million, or 39%, when compared to the fiscal 2018 quarter as a result of increased sales of fiber optics cable, copper cabling, custom patch cord assemblies and wiring harnesses. Net sales for the fiscal 2019 quarter at the RF Connector segment increased by $0.3 million, or 10%, to $3.5 million as compared to $3.1 million for the fiscal 2018 quarter. The increase in net sales reflects a full quarter of sales contribution from the Company’s acquisition of C Enterprises, as well as growth in both the Company’s traditional run rate business and its project work in the OEM and wireless carrier markets. 

Gross profit for the fiscal 2019 quarter increased $0.2 million to $4.3 million primarily due to the increase in net sales. Gross margins decreased to 28% of net sales from 34% of net sales in the fiscal 2018 quarter primarily due to product mix at the Custom Cabling segment as well as increased production wages at both segments in order to reward and retain production workforce and, in some cases, to meet state mandated minimum wage requirements. 

Engineering expenses increased $0.1 million during the fiscal 2019 quarter to $0.4 million compared to $0.3 million for the fiscal 2018 quarter due to higher compensation expense. Engineering expenses represent costs incurred relating to the ongoing development of new products. 

Selling and general expenses increased $0.8 million to $2.6 million (17% of sales) compared to $1.8 million (15% of sales) in the third quarter last year due to the absorption of the selling and general expenses of the newly acquired C Enterprises, increased compensation primarily due to timing of bonus accruals, increased marketing costs with the Company’s distributors, and costs related to the evaluation of possible strategic acquisition transactions. 

For the fiscal 2019 quarter, income from continuing operations for the Custom Cabling segment and the RF Connector segment was $1.1 million and $0.2 million, respectively, as compared to $1.8 million and $0.2 million for the comparable third quarter last year. The decrease in income from continuing operations at the Custom Cabling and RF Connector segments was primarily due to the decrease in gross margins during the fiscal 2019 quarter. 

The provision for income taxes was 22% and 19% of income before income taxes for the three months ended July 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The increase in the effective income tax rate from period to period was primarily driven by the elimination of the benefit from the domestic production activities deduction and the one-time benefit recorded in the prior year related to the reduction in the Company’s deferred tax liability due to the change in the federal tax rate, both as a result of the Tax Act. 

On December 22, 2017, the U.S. President signed the Tax Act, which among other things, lowered the U.S. corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018. In December 2017, the SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, Income Tax Accounting Implications of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (SAB 118), which allowed us to record provisional amounts during a measurement period not to extend beyond one year of the enactment date. As a result, we previously recorded a provisional estimate of the effect of the Tax Act in our financial statements. In the first quarter of 2019, we completed our analysis to determine the effect of the Tax Act and recorded no additional adjustments as of December 22, 2018. 

All of the income from discontinued operations, net of tax, during the fiscal 2018 quarter represents the results from the operations of Comnet Telecom Supply, Inc., a former subsidiary of the Company that we sold on October 31, 2018. 

For the fiscal 2019 quarter, income from continuing operations was $1.0 million and fully diluted earnings per share (EPS) was $0.11 per share as compared to an income from continuing operations of $1.6 million and fully diluted EPS of $0.17 per share for the fiscal 2018 quarter. For the fiscal 2019 quarter, the diluted weighted average shares outstanding was 9,872,899 as compared to 9,729,608 for the fiscal 2018 quarter. 

Nine Months Ended July 31, 2019 vs. Nine Months Ended July 31, 2018 

Net sales of $39.8 million decreased by 1%, or $0.5 million, for the nine months ended July 31, 2019 (the “fiscal 2019 nine month period”) when compared to the nine months ended July 31, 2018 (the “fiscal 2018 nine month period”) despite the additional sales derived in 2019 from the newly acquired C Enterprises subsidiary. The decrease in net sales is attributable to a decrease in net sales at the Company’s Custom Cabling segment, which decreased by $2.1 million, or 7%, to $29.7 million when compared to the fiscal 2018 nine month period net sales of $31.8 million. The year-over-year decline in sales was a result of the largest series of orders that the Company has ever received in the year ago nine month period ended July 31, 2018. Net sales for the fiscal 2019 nine month period at the RF Connector segment increased by $1.6 million, or 18%, to $10.0 million as compared to $8.5 million for the fiscal 2018 nine month period. 


The Company’s gross profit as a percentage of sales in the fiscal 2019 nine month period decreased to 29% compared to 35% in the fiscal 2018 nine month period due primarily to product mix at the Custom Cabling segment as well as increased production wages at both segments in order to reward and retain production workforce and, in some cases, to meet state mandated minimum wage requirements. 

Engineering expenses decreased by $0.2 million in the fiscal 2019 nine month period to $1.0 million compared to $1.2 million for the fiscal 2018 nine month period due to higher engineering activities to support the higher net sales in the fiscal 2018 nine month period. Engineering expenses represent costs incurred relating to the ongoing development of new products. 

Selling and general expenses increased by $0.4 million during the fiscal 2019 nine month period to $7.0 million from $6.6 million in the fiscal 2018 nine month period. Selling and general expenses as a percentage of sales increased to 18% for the fiscal 2019 nine month period as compared to 16% for the fiscal 2018 nine month period. The increase in selling and general expenses was primarily due to the absorption of the selling and general expenses of the newly acquired C Enterprises and one-time costs of $100,000 related to the acquisition of C Enterprises in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 partially offset by a decrease in commissions. 

For the fiscal 2019 nine month period, income (loss) from continuing operations for the Custom Cabling segment and the RF Connector segment was $2.7 million and $0.7 million, respectively, as compared to $6.8 million and $(0.4) million for the comparable nine months last year. The decrease in income from continuing operations at the Custom Cabling segment in 2019 was primarily due to lower gross margins during the fiscal 2019 nine month period, while the increase at RF Connector was primarily due in part to the increase in sales and gross margins. 

The provision for income taxes was 22% and 20% of income before income taxes for the nine months ended July 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The increase in the effective income tax rate from period to period was primarily driven by the elimination of the benefit from the domestic production activities deduction and the one-time benefit recorded in the prior year related to the reduction in the Company’s deferred tax liability due to the change in the federal tax rate, both as a result of the Tax Act. 

All of the income from discontinued operations, net of tax, during the fiscal 2018 nine month period represents the results from the operations of Comnet Telecom Supply, Inc., a former subsidiary of the Company that we sold on October 31, 2018. 

For the fiscal 2019 nine month period, income from continuing operations was $2.7 million and fully diluted EPS was $0.28 per share as compared to income from continuing operations of $5.1 million and fully diluted EPS of $0.54 per share for the fiscal 2018 nine month period. 

Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 

Nothing to report. 

Item 4. Controls and Procedures 

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures 

The Company maintains disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e)) that are designed to assure that information required to be disclosed in our Exchange Act reports is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures. 

In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide reasonable assurance only of achieving the desired control objectives, and management necessarily is required to apply its judgment in weighting the costs and benefits of possible new or different controls and procedures. Limitations are inherent in all control systems, so no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and any fraud have been detected. Because of the inherent limitations, we regularly review our system of internal control over financial reporting and make changes to our processes and systems to improve controls and increase efficiency, and to maintain an effective internal control environment. Changes may include such activities as implementing new, more efficient systems, consolidating activities, and migrating processes. 

As required by Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(b), as of the end of the period covered by this report, management, under the supervision and with the participation of our then Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures. Based on this evaluation, management concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of that date. 

There has been no change in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended July 31, 2019 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. 


Part II. OTHER INFORMATION 

Item 1. Legal Proceedings 

From time to time, we may become involved in various lawsuits and legal proceedings which arise in the ordinary course of business. Litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and an adverse result in these or other matters may arise from time to time that may harm our business. As of the date of this report, we are not subject to any proceeding that is not in the ordinary course of business or that is material to the financial condition of our business. 

Item 1A. Risk Factors 

The discussion of our business and operations should be read together with the risk factors contained in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2018 filed with the SEC, which describe various risks and uncertainties to which we are or may become subject. These risks and uncertainties have the potential to affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies or prospects in a material and adverse manner. There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in the above-mentioned periodic report. 

Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds 

Nothing to report. 

Item 3. Defaults upon Senior Securities 

Nothing to report. 

Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 

Nothing to report. 

Item 5. Other Information 

Noting to report. 

Item 6. Exhibits 




SIGNATURES 

In accordance with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 


