

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION






For the quarterly period ended October 4, 2019 



Commission File Number 001-31560 


SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY 

















Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” and “smaller reporting company” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.



As of October 28, 2019, 262,711,116 of the registrant’s ordinary shares, par value $0.00001 per share, were issued and outstanding. 

INDEX

 SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY PLC


PART I

FINANCIAL INFORMATION

ITEM 1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.

 SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY PLC

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.

SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY PLC

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS




See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.

SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY PLC

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME




See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.

SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY PLC

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS




See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.

SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY PLC

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 

For the Three Months Ended October 4, 2019 and September 28, 2018 





See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.

SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY PLC

NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Organization

Seagate Technology plc (“STX”) and its subsidiaries (collectively, unless the context otherwise indicates, the “Company”) is a leading provider of data storage technology and solutions. Its principal products are hard disk drives, commonly referred to as disk drives, hard drives or HDDs. In addition to HDDs, the Company produces a broad range of data storage products including solid state drives (“SSDs”), solid state hybrid drives (“SSHDs”) and storage subsystems.

Hard disk drives are devices that store digitally encoded data on rapidly rotating disks with magnetic surfaces. Disk drives continue to be the primary medium of mass data storage due to their performance attributes, reliability, high quality and cost effectiveness. Complementing existing data center storage architecture, solid-state drives use integrated circuit assemblies as memory to store data, and most SSDs use NAND flash memory. In addition to HDDs and SSDs, SSHDs combine the features of SSDs and HDDs in the same unit, containing a high capacity hard disk drive and a smaller SSD acting as a cache to improve performance of frequently accessed data.

The Company’s HDD products are designed for nearline and mission critical applications in enterprise servers and storage systems; edge non-compute applications, where its products are designed for a wide variety of end user devices such as portable external storage systems, video and image applications, including surveillance systems, network-attached storage (“NAS”), digital video recorders (“DVRs”) and gaming consoles; and edge compute applications, where its products are designed primarily for desktop and mobile computing. The Company’s SSD product portfolio is mainly comprised of Serial Attached SCSI (“SAS”) and Non-Volatile Memory Express (“NVMe”) and is designed for applications in enterprise servers and storage systems.

The Company’s enterprise data solutions (“EDS”) portfolio includes storage subsystems for enterprises, cloud service providers, scale-out storage servers and original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”).

Basis of Presentation and Consolidation

The Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and all its wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries, after elimination of intercompany transactions and balances.

The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. The methods, estimates and judgments the Company uses in applying its most critical accounting policies have a significant impact on the results the Company reports in its condensed consolidated financial statements. 

The Company’s consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended June 28, 2019, are included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K, as filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on August 2, 2019. The Company believes that the disclosures included in these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, when read in conjunction with its consolidated financial statements as of June 28, 2019, and the notes thereto, are adequate to make the information presented not misleading.

Fiscal Year

The Company operates and reports financial results on a fiscal year of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the Friday closest to June 30. The three months ended October 4, 2019 consisted of 14 weeks and the three months ended September 28, 2018 consisted of 13 weeks. Fiscal year 2020, which ends on July 3, 2020, is comprised of 53 weeks and fiscal year 2019, which ended on June 28, 2019, is comprised of 52 weeks. The fiscal quarters ended October 4, 2019, June 28, 2019 and September 28, 2018, are also referred to herein as the “September 2019 quarter”, the “June 2019 quarter”, and the “September 2018 quarter”, respectively. The results of operations for the three months ended October 4, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations to be expected for any subsequent interim period or for the Company’s fiscal year ending July 3, 2020. 

Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Except for the change in the Company’s other long-lived assets and leases policies described below, there have been no material changes to the Company’s significant accounting policies disclosed in Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” contained in Part II, Item 8 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 28, 2019, as filed with the SEC on August 2, 2019. 

Other Long-Lived Assets

In accordance with its policy, the Company reviews the estimated useful lives of its fixed assets on an ongoing basis. This review indicated that the actual lives of certain manufacturing equipment at its manufacturing facilities were longer than the estimated useful lives used for deprecation purposes in the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements. As a result, effective June 29, 2019, the Company changed its estimate of the useful lives of its manufacturing equipment from a range of three to five years to a range of three to seven years. The effect of this change in estimate increased the September 2019 quarter net income by $23 million and diluted earnings per share by $0.09. 

Leases

Effective June 29, 2019, the Company adopted a new accounting policy for leases in accordance with Accounting Standard Codification (“ASC”) 842, Leases, using the modified retrospective approach. Accordingly, the Company applied the new lease accounting standard prospectively to leases existing or commencing on or after June 29, 2019. The Company elected to apply the practical expedients which allow for not reassessing whether existing contracts contain leases, the classification of existing leases and whether the existing initial direct costs meet the new definition. In addition, the Company elected to combine lease and non-lease components for facility leases and to not recognize right-of-use (“ROU”) assets and lease liabilities for leases with an initial term of 12 months of less on the balance sheet. 

The Company determines if an arrangement is a lease or contains a lease at inception. ROU assets are included in Other assets, net and lease liabilities are included in Accrued expenses and Other non-current liabilities on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. ROU assets represent the Company’s right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and the corresponding lease liabilities represent its obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.

Lease liabilities are measured at the present value of the remaining lease payments and ROU assets are based on the lease liability, adjusted for lease prepayments, lease incentives received and the lessee’s initial direct costs. As the Company’s leases do not provide an implicit rate, the net present value of future minimum lease payments is determined using the Company’s estimated incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at the lease commencement date. Additionally, the Company’s lease term may include options to extend or terminate the lease. These options are reflected in the ROU asset and lease liability when it is reasonably certain that the Company will exercise the option. The Company’s lease agreements do not contain any material residual value guarantees.

The Company recognizes lease expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Variable lease payments not dependent on an index or a rate primarily consist of common area maintenance charges, are expensed as incurred, and are not included in the ROU asset and lease liability calculation. The total operating and variable lease costs were included in operating expenses in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.

Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements

In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standard Update (“ASU”) 2016-02 (ASC Topic 842), Leases and subsequently issued certain interpretive clarifications on this new guidance which amends a number of aspects of lease accounting, including requiring a lessee to recognize an ROU asset and corresponding lease liability for operating leases and enhanced disclosures. As of June 29, 2019, adoption of the standard resulted in the recognition of ROU assets and corresponding current and non-current lease liabilities of $115 million, $17 million and $57 million, respectively, on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet, primarily relating to real estate operating leases. The adoption of this ASU did not have a material impact on the Company’s other condensed consolidated financial statements. For information regarding the impact of ASC 842 adoption, see Summary of Significant Accounting Policies - Leases above and Note 5. Leases. 


Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements 

In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-15 (ASC Subtopic 350-40), Intangibles - Goodwill and Other - Internal-Use Software - Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That is a Service 

Contract. This ASU aligns the accounting for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the accounting for implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software. The Company is required to adopt the guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is in the process of assessing the impact of this ASU on its condensed consolidated financial statements.


2. Balance Sheet Information

Available-for-sale Debt Securities



As of October 4, 2019, the Company’s Other current assets included $2 million in restricted cash and investments held as collateral at banks for various performance obligations. 

As of October 4, 2019, the Company had no material available-for-sale debt securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for a period greater than 12 months. The Company determined no available-for-sale debt securities were other-than-temporarily impaired as of October 4, 2019.





As of June 28, 2019, the Company’s Other current assets included $2 million in restricted cash and investments held as collateral at banks for various performance obligations. 

As of June 28, 2019, the Company had no material available-for-sale securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for a period greater than 12 months. The Company determined no available-for-sale securities were other-than-temporarily impaired as of June 28, 2019.

Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash



Inventories



Property, Equipment and Leasehold Improvements, net



Accrued Expenses



Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) (“AOCI”)




Debt

Credit Agreement 

The Company’s subsidiary, Seagate HDD Cayman, entered into a credit agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) on February 20, 2019, which was most recently amended on September 16, 2019. The Credit Agreement provides an up to $1.5 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility (“Revolving Credit Facility”) and a term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of $500 million (“Term Loan”). The Revolving Credit Facility has a final maturity of February 20, 2024 and the Term Loan has a final maturity date of September 16, 2025. The loans made under the Revolving Credit Facility and the Term Loan will bear interest at a rate of the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) plus a variable margin for each facility that will be determined based on the corporate credit rating of the Company. STX and certain of its material subsidiaries fully and unconditionally guarantee both the Revolving Credit Facility and the Term Loan. The Revolving Credit Facility also allows such facility to increase by an additional $100 million, provided that (i) there has been, and will be after giving effect to such increase, no default, (ii) the increase is at least $25 million, and (iii) the existing commitments under such facility receive 0.50% most favored nation protection. An aggregate amount of up to $75 million of the Revolving Credit Facility is available for the issuance of letters of credit, and an aggregate amount of up to $50 million of such facility is also available for swing line loans.

On September 17, 2019, Seagate HDD Cayman borrowed the $500 million principal amount under the Term Loan and the proceeds were used to repurchase a portion of its outstanding senior notes. The Term Loan is repayable in quarterly installments of 1.25% of the original principal amount beginning on December 31, 2020, with the remaining balance payable upon maturity.


As of October 4, 2019, no borrowings were drawn and no letters of credit or swing line loans had been utilized under the Revolving Credit Facility. 

Other Long-Term Debt

$750 million Aggregate Principal Amount of 4.25% Senior Notes due March 2022 (the “2022 Notes”). The interest on the 2022 Notes is payable semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 of each year. The issuer under the 2022 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2022 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by STX. On September 18, 2019, the principal amount of approximately $250 million was repurchased pursuant to cash tender offers for certain senior notes (the “Tender Offers”). The Company recorded a loss of $10 million, which was included in Other, net in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.

 $1 billion Aggregate Principal Amount of 4.75% Senior Notes due June 2023 (the “2023 Notes”). The interest on the 2023 Notes is payable semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 of each year. The issuer under the 2023 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2023 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by STX. On September 18, 2019, the principal amount of $200 million was repurchased pursuant to the Tender Offers. The Company recorded a loss of $10 million, which was included in Other, net in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.

$500 million Aggregate Principal Amount of 4.875% Senior Notes due March 2024 (the “2024 Notes”).The interest on the 2024 Notes is payable semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 of each year. The issuer under the 2024 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2024 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by STX.

$1 billion Aggregate Principal Amount of 4.75% Senior Notes due January 2025 (the “2025 Notes”). The interest on the 2025 Notes is payable semi-annually on January 1 and July 1 of each year. The issuer under the 2025 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2025 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by STX. On September 18, 2019, the principal amount of approximately $170 million was repurchased pursuant to the Tender Offers. The Company recorded a loss of $8 million, which was included in Other, net in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.

$700 million Aggregate Principal Amount of 4.875% Senior Notes due June 2027 (the “2027 Notes”). The interest on the Notes is payable semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 of each year. The issuer under the 2027 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2027 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by STX. 

$500 million Aggregate Principal Amount of 5.75% Senior Notes due December 2034 (the “2034 Notes”). The interest on the 2034 Notes is payable semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 of each year. The issuer under the 2034 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2034 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by STX. 




The Company’s income tax benefit of $2 million for the three months ended October 4, 2019 included approximately $11 million of net discrete tax benefit of which $8 million was associated with net excess tax benefits related to share-based compensation expense. 

The Company’s income tax provision recorded for the three months ended October 4, 2019 differed from the provision for income taxes that would be derived by applying the Irish statutory rate of 25% to income before income taxes, primarily due to the net effect of tax benefits related to (i) non-Irish earnings generated in jurisdictions that are subject to tax incentive programs and are considered indefinitely reinvested outside of Ireland and (ii) current year generation of research credits. 

During the three months ended October 4, 2019, the Company’s unrecognized tax benefits excluding interest and penalties increased by approximately $2 million to $85 million. The unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would impact the effective tax rate were $85 million at October 4, 2019, subject to certain future valuation allowance reversals. During the twelve months beginning October 5, 2019, the Company expects that its unrecognized tax benefits could be reduced by an immaterial amount, as a result of expected cash payments to tax authorities.

The Company’s income tax provision of $18 million for the three months ended September 28, 2018 included approximately $1 million of net discrete tax expense.

The Company’s income tax provision recorded for the three months ended September 28, 2018 differed from the provision for income taxes that would be derived by applying the Irish statutory rate of 25% to income before income taxes, primarily due to the net effect of (i) tax benefits related to non-Irish earnings generated in jurisdictions that are subject to tax incentive programs and are considered indefinitely reinvested outside of Ireland and (ii) a decrease in valuation allowance for certain deferred tax assets.


Leases

The Company is a lessee in several operating leases related to real estate facilities for warehouse and office space. 

The Company’s lease arrangements comprise operating leases with various expiration dates through 2082. The lease term includes the non-cancelable period of the lease, adjusted for options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that an option will be exercised. 







6.Restructuring and Exit Costs

 For the three months ended October 4, 2019, and September 28, 2018, the Company recorded restructuring charges of approximately $17 million and $23 million, respectively, comprised primarily of charges related to workforce reduction costs and facilities and other exit costs. The Company’s significant restructuring plans are described below. All restructuring charges are reported in Restructuring and other, net on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. 

 December 2017 Plan - On December 8, 2017, the Company committed to a restructuring plan (the “December 2017 Plan”) to reduce its cost structure. The December 2017 Plan included reducing the Company’s global headcount by approximately 500 employees. The December 2017 Plan was substantially completed by the end of fiscal year 2018. 




Derivative Financial Instruments

 The Company is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate, interest rate, and to a lesser extent, equity market risks relating to its ongoing business operations. From time to time, the Company enters into cash flow hedges in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts. The objective of foreign currency forward exchange contracts is to manage the foreign currency exchange rate risk on forecasted expenses and investments denominated in foreign currencies. 

In the September 2019 quarter, the Company entered into certain interest rate swap agreements with a notional amount of $500 million to convert the variable interest rate on its Term Loan to fixed interest rates. The contracts were effective as of October 4, 2019 and will mature on September 16, 2025. The objective of the interest rate swap agreements is to eliminate the variability of interest payment cash flows associated with variable interest rates. The Company designated the interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges. 

The Company’s accounting policies for these instruments are based on whether the instruments are classified as designated or non-designated hedging instruments. The Company records all derivatives on its Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value. The changes in the fair value of highly effective designated cash flow hedges are recorded in Accumulated 

other comprehensive loss until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. Derivatives that are not designated as hedging instruments or are not assessed to be highly effective are adjusted to fair value through earnings. The amount of net unrealized loss on cash flow hedges was not material as of October 4, 2019 and as of June 28, 2019. 

The Company de-designates its cash flow hedges when the forecasted hedged transactions affect earnings or it is probable the forecasted hedged transactions will not occur in the initially identified time period. At such time, the associated gains and losses deferred in Accumulated other comprehensive loss on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets are reclassified immediately into earnings and any subsequent changes in the fair value of such derivative instruments are immediately reflected in earnings. The Company did not recognize any material amounts related to the loss of hedge designation on discontinued cash flow hedges during the three months ended October 4, 2019 and September 28, 2018, respectively.

Other derivatives not designated as hedging instruments consist of foreign currency forward exchange contracts that the Company uses to hedge the foreign currency exposure on forecasted expenditures denominated in currency other than the U.S. dollar. The Company recognizes gains and losses on these contracts, as well as the related costs in Other, net on its Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. Deferred gains and deferred losses on derivatives are recognized in Other current assets and Accrued expenses, respectively, on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.

The following tables show the total notional value of the Company’s outstanding foreign currency forward exchange contracts and interest rate swaps as of October 4, 2019 and June 28, 2019. All of the foreign currency forward exchange contracts mature within 12 months.



The Company is subject to equity market risks due to changes in the fair value of the notional investments selected by its employees as part of its Non-qualified Deferred Compensation Plan—the Seagate Deferred Compensation Plan (the “SDCP”). In fiscal year 2014, the Company entered into a Total Return Swap (“TRS”) in order to manage the equity market risks associated with the SDCP liabilities. The Company pays a floating rate, based on LIBOR plus an interest rate spread, on the notional amount of the TRS. The TRS is designed to substantially offset changes in the SDCP liability due to changes in the value of the investment options made by employees. As of October 4, 2019, the notional investments underlying the TRS amounted to $117 million. The contract term of the TRS is through January 2020 and is settled on a monthly basis, therefore limiting counterparty performance risk. The Company does not designate the TRS as a hedge. Rather, the Company records all changes in the fair value of the TRS to earnings to offset the market value changes of the SDCP liabilities.






The amount of loss recognized in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges was $1 million for the three months ended October 4, 2019. The amount of loss recognized in income related to the ineffective portion of the hedging relationships and to the amount excluded from the assessment of hedge ineffectiveness was not material for the three months ended October 4, 2019.





Fair Value

Measurement of Fair Value

Fair value is defined as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required to be recorded at fair value, the Company considers the principal or most advantageous market in which it would transact and it considers assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.

Fair Value Hierarchy


Level 1 — Quoted prices in active markets that are unadjusted and accessible at the measurement date for identical, unrestricted assets or liabilities;

Level 2 — Quoted prices for identical assets and liabilities in markets that are inactive; quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets or financial instruments for which significant inputs are observable, either directly or indirectly; or

Level 3 — Prices or valuations that require inputs that are both unobservable and significant to the fair value measurement.

The Company considers an active market to be one in which transactions for the asset or liability occur with sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis, and views an inactive market as one in which there are few transactions for the asset or liability, the prices are not current, or price quotations vary substantially either over time or among market makers. Where appropriate the Company’s or the counterparty’s non-performance risk is considered in determining the fair values of liabilities and assets, respectively.

Items Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis







The Company classifies items in Level 1 if the financial assets consist of securities for which quoted prices are available in an active market.


Items Measured at Fair Value on a Non-Recurring Basis

From time to time, the Company enters into certain strategic investments for the promotion of business and strategic objectives. These strategic investments primarily include cost basis investments representing those where the Company does have the ability to exercise significant influence but does not have control. These investments are included in Other assets, net on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, and are periodically analyzed to determine whether or not there are indicators of impairment. 

As of October 4, 2019 and June 28, 2019, the carrying value of the Company’s strategic investments was $115 million and $114 million, respectively. For the three months ended October 4, 2019 and September 28, 2018, there were no upward or downward adjustments on equity investments. 

As of June 28, 2019, the Company had $23 million of held for sale land and building (collectively, the “properties”) included in Other current assets on its Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. In July 2019, the Company completed the sale of the properties. As of October 4, 2019, the Company had no held for sale land and building.

Other Fair Value Disclosures 




Equity

Share Capital

The Company’s authorized share capital is $13,500 and consists of 1,250,000,000 ordinary shares, par value $0.00001, of which 262,624,650 shares were outstanding as of October 4, 2019, and 100,000,000 preferred shares, par value $0.00001, of which none were issued or outstanding as of October 4, 2019.

Ordinary shares—Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as and when declared by the board of directors (the “Board of Directors”). Upon any liquidation, dissolution, or winding up, after required payments are made to holders of preferred shares, any remaining assets will be distributed ratably to holders of the preferred and ordinary shares. Holders of shares are entitled to one vote per share on all matters upon which the ordinary shares are entitled to vote, including the election of directors. 

Preferred shares—The Company may issue preferred shares in one or more series, up to the authorized amount, without shareholder approval. The Board of Directors is authorized to establish from time to time the number of shares to be included in each series, and to fix the rights, preferences and privileges of the shares of each wholly unissued series and any of its qualifications, limitations or restrictions. The Board of Directors can also increase or decrease the number of shares of a series, but not below the number of shares of that series then outstanding, without any further vote or action by the shareholders.

The Board of Directors may authorize the issuance of preferred shares with voting or conversion rights that could harm the voting power or other rights of the holders of the ordinary shares. The issuance of preferred shares, while providing flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could, among other things, have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of the Company and might harm the market price of its ordinary shares and the voting and other rights of the holders of ordinary shares.

Repurchases of Equity Securities

 All repurchases are effected as redemptions in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association.

As of October 4, 2019, $1.7 billion remained available for repurchase under the existing repurchase authorization limit. 




Revenue






Guarantees

Indemnifications of Officers and Directors 

Seagate Technology, an exempted company incorporated with limited liability under the laws of the Cayman Islands (“Seagate-Cayman”) and wholly-owned subsidiary of STX, from time to time enters into indemnification agreements with the directors, officers, employees and agents of STX or any of its subsidiaries (each, an “Indemnitee”). The indemnification agreements provide indemnification in addition to any of Indemnitee’s indemnification rights under any relevant Articles of Association (or similar constitutional document), applicable law or otherwise, and indemnifies an Indemnitee for certain expenses (including attorneys’ fees), judgments, fines and settlement amounts actually and reasonably incurred by him or her in any action or proceeding, including any action by or in the right of STX or any of its subsidiaries, arising out of his or her service as a director, officer, employee or agent of STX or any of its subsidiaries or of any other entity to which he or she provides services at the Company’s request. However, Indemnitees are not indemnified under the indemnification agreements for (i) any fraud or dishonesty in the performance of Indemnitee’s duty to STX or the applicable subsidiary or (ii) Indemnitee’s conscious, intentional or willful failure to act honestly, lawfully and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the Company. In addition, the indemnification agreements provide that Seagate-Cayman will advance expenses incurred by an Indemnitee in connection with enforcement of the indemnification agreement or with the investigation, settlement or appeal of any action or proceeding against him or her as to which he or she could be indemnified.

The nature of these indemnification obligations prevents the Company from making a reasonable estimate of the maximum potential amount it could be required to pay on behalf of its officers and directors. Historically, the Company has not made any significant indemnification payments under such agreements and no amount has been accrued in the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements with respect to these indemnification obligations.

Intellectual Property Indemnification Obligations

The Company has entered into agreements with customers and suppliers that include limited intellectual property indemnification obligations that are customary in the industry. These guarantees generally require the Company to compensate the other party for certain damages and costs incurred as a result of third party intellectual property claims arising from these transactions. The nature of the intellectual property indemnification obligations prevents the Company from making a reasonable estimate of the maximum potential amount it could be required to pay to its customers and suppliers. Historically, the Company has not made any significant indemnification payments under such agreements and no amount has been accrued in the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements with respect to these indemnification obligations. 

Product Warranty




Earnings Per Share



The anti-dilutive shares related to employee equity award plans that were excluded from the computation of diluted net income per share were not material for the three months ended October 4, 2019 and September 28, 2018.


Legal, Environmental and Other Contingencies

The Company assesses the probability of an unfavorable outcome of all its material litigation, claims, or assessments to determine whether a liability had been incurred and whether it is probable that one or more future events will occur confirming the fact of the loss. In the event that an unfavorable outcome is determined to be probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated, the Company establishes an accrual for the litigation, claim or assessment. In addition, in the event an unfavorable outcome is determined to be less than probable, but reasonably possible, the Company will disclose an estimate of the possible loss or range of such loss; however, when a reasonable estimate cannot be made, the Company will provide disclosure 

to that effect. Litigation is inherently uncertain and may result in adverse rulings or decisions. Additionally, the Company may enter into settlements or be subject to judgments that may, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on its results of operations. Accordingly, actual results could differ materially.

Intellectual Property Litigation

Convolve, Inc. (“Convolve”) and Massachusetts Institute of Technology (“MIT”) v. Seagate Technology LLC, et al. On July 13, 2000, Convolve and MIT filed suit against Compaq Computer Corporation and Seagate Technology LLC in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, alleging infringement of U.S. Patent No. 4,916,635 (the “‘635 patent”) and U.S. Patent No. 5,638,267 (the “‘267 patent”), misappropriation of trade secrets, breach of contract, and other claims. On January 16, 2002, Convolve filed an amended complaint, alleging defendants were infringing U.S. Patent No. 6,314,473 (the “‘473 patent”). The district court ruled in 2010 that the ‘267 patent was out of the case.


Lambeth Magnetic Structures LLC v. Seagate Technology (US) Holdings, Inc., et al. On April 29, 2016, Lambeth Magnetic Structures LLC filed a complaint against Seagate Technology (US) Holdings, Inc. and Seagate Technology LLC in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania, alleging infringement of U.S. Patent No. 7,128,988, “Magnetic Material Structures, Devices and Methods.” The Company believes the claims asserted in the complaint are without merit and intends to vigorously defend this case. The court issued its claim construction ruling on October 18, 2017. A jury trial in this matter is scheduled for June 1, 2020. While the possible range of loss for this matter remains uncertain, the Company estimates the amount of loss to be immaterial to the financial statements.

 Environmental Matters

The Company’s operations are subject to U.S. and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. Some of the Company’s operations require environmental permits and controls to prevent and reduce air and water pollution, and these permits are subject to modification, renewal and revocation by issuing authorities.

The Company has established environmental management systems and continually updates its environmental policies and standard operating procedures for its operations worldwide. The Company believes that its operations are in material compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits. The Company budgets for operating and capital costs on an ongoing basis to comply with environmental laws. If additional or more stringent requirements are imposed on the Company in the future, it could incur additional operating costs and capital expenditures.

Some environmental laws, such as the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (as amended, the “Superfund” law) and its state equivalents, can impose liability for the cost of cleanup of contaminated sites upon any of the current or former site owners or operators or upon parties who sent waste to these sites, regardless of whether the owner or operator owned the site at the time of the release of hazardous substances or the lawfulness of the original disposal activity. The Company has been identified as a responsible or potentially responsible party at several sites. At each of these sites, the Company has an assigned portion of the financial liability based on the type and amount of hazardous substances disposed of by each party at the site and the number of financially viable parties. The Company has fulfilled its responsibilities at some of these sites and remains involved in only a few at this time.

While the Company’s ultimate costs in connection with these sites is difficult to predict with complete accuracy, based on its current estimates of cleanup costs and its expected allocation of these costs, the Company does not expect costs in connection with these sites to be material.


Other Matters

The Company is involved in a number of other judicial, regulatory or administrative proceedings and investigations incidental to its business, and the Company may be involved in such proceedings and investigations arising in the normal course of its business in the future. Although occasional adverse decisions or settlements may occur, the Company believes that the final disposition of such matters will not have a material adverse effect on its financial position or results of operations.


Subsequent Events

Dividend Declared

On October 28, 2019, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.65 per share, which will be payable on January 8, 2020 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on December 26, 2019.

ITEM 2.MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

 The following is a discussion of the financial condition, changes in financial condition, and results of operations for our fiscal quarters ended October 4, 2019, June 28, 2019 and September 28, 2018, referred to herein as the “September 2019 quarter,” the “June 2019 quarter,” and the “September 2018 quarter,” respectively. We operate and report financial results on a fiscal year of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the Friday closest to June 30. The September 2019 quarter was 14 weeks and the June 2019 quarter and September 2018 quarter were each 13 weeks.

 You should read this discussion in conjunction with financial information and related notes included elsewhere in this report. Unless the context indicates otherwise, as used herein, the terms “we,” “us,” “Seagate,” the “Company” and “our” refer to Seagate Technology plc, an Irish public limited company, and its subsidiaries. References to “$” are to United States dollars.

This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 or Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each as amended, including, among other things, statements about our plans, strategies and prospects, market demand for our products, shifts in technology, estimates of industry growth, our ability to effectively manage our debt obligations and our cash liquidity position, our restructuring efforts, the sufficiency of our sources of cash to meet our cash needs for the next 12 months and our expectations regarding capital expenditures and projected cost savings for the fiscal year ending July 3, 2020. These statements identify prospective information and may include words such as “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “predicts,” “projects,” “may,” “will,”, “will continue,” “can,” “could,” or negative of these words, variations of these words and comparable terminology. These forward-looking statements are based on information available to the Company as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and are based on management’s current views and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are conditioned upon and also involve a number of known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Such risks, uncertainties and other factors may be beyond our control and may pose a risk to our operating and financial condition. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to:

•addressing the many challenges facing the Company’s business;

•the uncertainty in global economic and political conditions;

•the development and introduction of products based on new technologies and expansion into new data storage markets, and market acceptance of new products;

•the impact of competitive product announcements and unexpected advances in competing technologies or changes in market trends;

•the impact of variable demand, changes in market demand, and an adverse pricing environment for storage products;

•the Company’s ability to effectively manage its debt obligations and comply with certain covenants in its credit facilities with respect to financial ratios and financial condition tests and its ability to maintain a favorable cash liquidity position;

•the Company’s ability to successfully qualify, manufacture and sell its storage products in increasing volumes on a cost-effective basis and with acceptable quality;

•any price erosion or volatility of sales volumes through the Company’s distributor and retail channel;

•disruptions to the Company’s supply chain or production capabilities;

•currency fluctuations that may impact the Company’s margins, international sales and results of operations;


•the evolving legal, regulatory and administrative climate in the international markets where the Company operates; and

•cyber-attacks or other data breaches that disrupt the Company’s operations or result in the dissemination of proprietary or confidential information and cause reputational harm.

Information concerning these and other risks, uncertainties and factors, among others, that could cause results to differ materially from our expectations are described in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 28, 2019, which we encourage you to carefully read. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any date subsequent to the date on which they were made and we undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements except as required by law.



•Liquidity and Capital Resources. An analysis of changes in our balance sheet and cash flows, and discussion of our financial condition including the credit quality of our investment portfolio and potential sources of liquidity.

•Critical Accounting Policies. Accounting policies and estimates that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial results.

For an overview of our business, see “Part I, Item 1. Financial Statements—Note 1. Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies—Organization”

Overview of the September 2019 quarter

During the September 2019 quarter, we shipped 98 exabytes of HDD storage capacity. We generated revenue of approximately $2.6 billion, gross margin of 26% and our operating cash flow was $456 million. We repurchased an aggregate principal amount of $620 million of certain outstanding senior notes in connection with the Tender Offers and borrowed $500 million under the Term Loan. We repurchased approximately 9 million of our ordinary shares for $450 million and paid $170 million in dividends. Additionally, we changed our estimate of the useful lives of our manufacturing equipment from a range of three to five years to a range of three to seven years. The effect of this change in estimate increased the September 2019 quarter net income by $23 million. 

Results of Operations




Revenue



Revenue in the September 2019 quarter increased by $207 million from the June 2019 quarter primarily due to an increase in exabytes shipped and improved product mix, partially offset by price erosion.

Revenue in the September 2019 quarter decreased by $413 million from the September 2018 quarter primarily due to less favorable market conditions and price erosion.

We maintain various sales incentive programs such as channel rebates and price masking. Sales incentive programs were approximately 13%, 11% and 11% of gross HDD revenue for the September 2019 quarter, June 2019 quarter and September 2018 quarter, respectively. Adjustments to revenues due to under or over accruals for sales incentive programs related to revenues reported in prior quarterly periods were less than 1% of quarterly gross revenue in all periods presented.

Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin  


Gross margin as a percentage of revenue for the September 2019 quarter remained relatively flat compared to the June 2019 quarter.

Compared to the September 2018 quarter, gross margin as a percentage of revenue for the September 2019 quarter decreased primarily driven by price erosion and factory under-utilization.

In the September 2019 quarter, total warranty cost was 0.5% of revenue and included a favorable change in estimates of prior warranty accruals of 0.4% of revenue due to improvements in return rates on newer generation products. Warranty cost related to new shipments was 0.9%, 0.9% and 1.2% of revenue for the September 2019 quarter, June 2019 quarter and September 2018 quarter, respectively.

Operating Expenses


Product development expense. Product development expense for the September 2019 quarter increased by $14 million compared to the June 2019 quarter due to a $14 million increase in compensation and other employee benefits resulting primarily from the additional fourteenth week in the September 2019 quarter. 

Compared to the September 2018 quarter, Product development expense for the September 2019 quarter decreased by $11 million primarily due to a $10 million decrease in other general expenses as a result of timing of materials purchases and a $5 million decrease in variable compensation expense, partially offset by an increase in expense from the additional fourteenth week in the September 2019 quarter. 

Marketing and administrative expense. Marketing and administrative expense for the September 2019 quarter increased by $14 million from the June 2019 quarter, primarily due to a $9 million increase in other general expenses as a result of increased outside services, a $2 million increase in variable compensation expense and a $2 million increase in compensation and other employee benefits mainly resulting from the additional fourteenth week in the September 2019 quarter. 

Compared to the September 2018 quarter, Marketing and administrative expense for the September 2019 quarter increased by $7 million, primarily due to a $4 million increase in share-based compensation expense and a $4 million increase in other general expenses mainly as a result of increased outside services and increase in expense from the additional fourteenth week in the September 2019 quarter.

Amortization of intangibles. Amortization of intangibles for the September 2019 quarter decreased by $2 million from the June 2019 quarter and the September 2018 quarter due to certain intangible assets reaching the end of their useful lives.

Restructuring and other, net. Restructuring and other, net for the September 2019 quarter was comprised of charges primarily related to a new voluntary early exit program.

Restructuring and other, net for the June 2019 quarter was comprised primarily of a gain from the sale of certain property.

Restructuring and other, net for the September 2018 quarter was comprised of charges primarily related to a voluntary early exit program.

Other Expense, Net 


Other expense, net. Other expense, net for the September 2019 quarter increased by $34 million from the June 2019 quarter, primarily due to a $30 million loss resulting from the repurchase of certain long-term debt and a $5 million decrease in interest income mainly resulting from the redemption of our investment in Toshiba Memory Holdings Corporation (“TMHC”) in the June 2019 quarter.

Compared to the September 2018 quarter, Other expense, net for the September 2019 quarter increased by $40 million primarily due to a $30 million loss resulting from the repurchase of certain long-term debt and an $11 million decrease in interest income mainly resulting from the redemption of our investment in TMHC in the June 2019 quarter.

Income Taxes 


Our income tax benefit of $2 million for the three months ended October 4, 2019 included approximately $11 million of net discrete tax benefit of which $8 million was associated with net excess tax benefits related to share-based compensation expense. 

Our income tax provision recorded for the three months ended October 4, 2019 differed from the provision for income taxes that would be derived by applying the Irish statutory rate of 25% to income before income taxes, primarily due to the net effect of tax benefits related to (i) non-Irish earnings generated in jurisdictions that are subject to tax incentive programs and are considered indefinitely reinvested outside of Ireland and (ii) current year generation of research credits. 

During the three months ended October 4, 2019, our unrecognized tax benefits excluding interest and penalties increased by approximately $2 million to $85 million. The unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would impact the effective tax rate were $85 million at October 4, 2019, subject to certain future valuation allowance reversals. During the 12 months beginning October 5, 2019, we expect that our unrecognized tax benefits could be reduced by an immaterial amount, as a result of expected cash payments to tax authorities.

Our income tax provision of $18 million for the three months ended September 28, 2018 included approximately $1 million of net discrete tax expense.

Our income tax provision recorded for the three months ended September 28, 2018 differed from the provision from income taxes that would be derived by applying the Irish statutory rate of 25% to income before income taxes, primarily due to the net effect of (i) tax benefits related to non-Irish earnings generated in jurisdictions that are subject to tax holidays or tax incentive programs and are considered indefinitely reinvested outside of Ireland and (ii) a decrease in valuation allowance for certain deferred tax assets.

Liquidity and Capital Resources


Cash and Cash Equivalents


Our cash and cash equivalents as of October 4, 2019 decreased by $436 million from June 28, 2019 primarily as a result of the repurchase of certain senior notes of $645 million for $620 million in aggregate principal amount, repurchases of our ordinary shares of $450 million, dividends to our shareholders of $170 million, and payments for capital expenditures of $147 million, partially offset by net proceeds of $498 million from borrowings under our Term Loan and net cash of $456 million provided by operating activities.

Cash Provided by Operating Activities


•an increase of $281 million in accounts payable, primarily due to timing of payments and an increase in materials purchases; 

•partially offset by an increase of $77 million in accounts receivable, primarily due to timing of collections and an increase in revenue;

•an increase of $65 million in inventories, primarily due to an increase in material purchases; and

•a decrease of $20 million in accrued employee compensation primarily due to cash paid to our employees as part of our discretionary spending plans.

Cash Used in Investing Activities

Cash used in investing activities for the three months ended October 4, 2019 was $151 million, primarily attributable to the payments for the purchase of property, equipment and leasehold improvements of $147 million.

Cash Used in Financing Activities


•$645 million in payments for repurchase of certain long-term debt;

•$450 million in payments for repurchase of our ordinary shares;

•$170 million in dividend payments;

•$37 million in payments for taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards;

•partially offset by $498 million in net proceeds from the borrowing under the Term Loan; and

•$39 million in proceeds from the issuance of ordinary shares under employee stock plans.

Liquidity Sources, Cash Requirements and Commitments


On September 17, 2019, we borrowed a principal amount of $500 million under the Term Loan and the proceeds were used to repurchase a portion of our outstanding senior notes. The Term Loan bears interest at a rate of LIBOR plus a variable margin determined based on our corporate credit rating. The Term Loan is repayable in quarterly installments of 1.25% of the original principal amount beginning on December 31, 2020, with the remaining balance payable upon maturity on September 16, 2025.

As of October 4, 2019, no borrowings had been drawn and no borrowings had been utilized for letters of credit or swing line loans issued under the Revolving Credit Facility. The Revolving Credit Facility is available for borrowings, subject to compliance with financial covenants and other customary conditions to borrowing. 


Our liquidity requirements are primarily to meet our working capital, product development and capital expenditure needs, to fund scheduled payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness, and to fund our quarterly dividend and any future strategic investments. Our ability to fund these requirements will depend on our future cash flows, which are determined by future operating performance, and therefore, subject to prevailing global macroeconomic conditions and financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control.

For fiscal year 2020, we expect capital expenditures to remain within our long-term targeted range of 6% to 8% of revenue.

From time to time we may repurchase any of our outstanding notes in open market or privately negotiated purchases or otherwise, or we may repurchase outstanding notes pursuant to the terms of the applicable indenture. 

Dividends declared in the September 2019 quarter of $165 million were subsequently paid on October 9, 2019. Our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.65 per share on October 28, 2019, which is payable on January 8, 2020 to shareholders of record at the close of business on December 26, 2019. 

From time to time, we may repurchase any of our outstanding ordinary shares through tender offers, private, open market or broker-assisted purchases or other means. As of October 4, 2019, $1.7 billion remained available for repurchases under our existing repurchase authorization. All repurchases are effected as redemptions in accordance with our Articles of Association. 

Critical Accounting Policies

Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of such statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements. Our estimates are based on historical experience and other assumptions that we consider to be appropriate in the circumstances. However, actual future results may vary from our estimates.

Other than as described in “Part I, Item 1. Financial Statements—Note 1. Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies”, there have been no other material changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates. Refer to “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” contained in Part II, Item 7. of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 28, 2019, as filed with the SEC on August 2, 2019, for a discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

See “Part I, Item 1. Financial Statements—Note 1. Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” for information regarding the effect of new accounting pronouncements on our financial statements.

ITEM 3.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

We have exposure to market risks due to the volatility of interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, credit rating changes, and equity and bond markets. A portion of these risks may be hedged, but fluctuations could impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.

Interest Rate Risk. Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our cash investment portfolio. As of October 4, 2019, we had no available-for-sale debt securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for a period greater than 12 months. We determined no available-for-sale debt securities were other-than-temporarily impaired as of October 4, 2019. 

In the September 2019 quarter, we entered into certain interest rate swap agreements with a notional amount of $500 million to convert the variable interest rate on the Term Loan to fixed interest rates. The contracts were effective as of October 4, 2019 and will mature on September 16, 2025. The objective of the interest rate swap agreements is to eliminate the variability of interest payment cash flows associated with variable interest rates. The Company designated the interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges. 

We have fixed rate and variable rate debt obligations. We enter into debt obligations for general corporate purposes including capital expenditures and working capital needs. Our Term Loan bears interest at a variable rate equal to LIBOR plus a variable margin set on September 19, 2019.

The table below presents principal amounts and related weighted-average interest rates by year of maturity for our investment portfolio and debt obligations as of October 4, 2019. 


Foreign Currency Exchange Risk. From time to time, we may enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage exposure related to certain foreign currency commitments and anticipated foreign currency denominated expenditures. Our policy prohibits us from entering into derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. At this time, we have not identified any material exposure associated with the potential changes related to the British vote to exit the European Union.

We hedge portions of our foreign currency denominated balance sheet positions with foreign currency forward exchange contracts to reduce the risk that our earnings will be adversely affected by changes in currency exchange rates. The change in fair value of these contracts is recognized in earnings in the same period as the gains and losses from the remeasurement of the assets and liabilities. All foreign currency forward exchange contracts discussed above mature within 12 months.

We did not have any material net gains or losses recognized in Cost of revenue, or Other, net for cash flow hedges due to hedge ineffectiveness or discontinued cash flow hedges during the three months ended October 4, 2019. 

The table below provides information as of October 4, 2019 about our foreign currency forward exchange contracts. The table is provided in U.S. dollar equivalent amounts and presents the notional amounts (at the contract exchange rates) and the weighted-average contractual foreign currency exchange rates. 




Other Market Risks. We have exposure to counterparty credit downgrades in the form of credit risk related to our foreign currency forward exchange contracts and our fixed income portfolio. We monitor and limit our credit exposure for our foreign currency forward exchange contracts by performing ongoing credit evaluations. We also manage the notional amount of contracts entered into with any one counterparty, and we maintain limits on maximum tenor of contracts based on the credit rating of the financial institution. Additionally, the investment portfolio is diversified and structured to minimize credit risk.

Changes in our corporate issuer credit ratings have minimal impact on our near term financial results, but downgrades may negatively impact our future ability to raise capital, our ability to execute transactions with various counterparties and increase the cost of such capital.

We are subject to equity market risks due to changes in the fair value of the notional investments selected by our employees as part of our SDCP. In fiscal year 2014, we entered into a TRS in order to manage the equity market risks associated with the SDCP liabilities. We pay a floating rate, based on LIBOR plus an interest rate spread, on the notional amount of the TRS. The TRS is designed to substantially offset changes in the SDCP liability due to changes in the value of the investment options made by employees. See “Part I, Item 1. Financial Statements—Note 7. Derivative Financial Instruments” of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.

ITEM 4.CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

As required by the Exchange Act Rule 13a-15, we carried out an evaluation under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this Quarterly Report. Based on the evaluation, our management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective as of October 4, 2019. 

Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting

During the quarter ended October 4, 2019, there were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that materially affected, or were reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 

PART II

OTHER INFORMATION

ITEM 1.LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

For a discussion of legal proceedings, see “Part I, Item 1. Financial Statements—Note 13. Legal, Environmental and Other Contingencies” of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.

ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS 

There have been no material changes to the description of the risk factors associated with our business previously disclosed in “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A. in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 28, 2019. In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the risk factors discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K as they could materially affect our business, financial condition and future results.

The Risk Factors are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results.

ITEM 2.UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS

Repurchase of Equity Securities

All repurchases of our outstanding ordinary shares are effected as redemptions in accordance with STX’s Articles of Association. 

As of October 4, 2019, $1.7 billion remained available for repurchases under the existing repurchase authorization. There is no expiration date on this authorization. 






ITEM 3.DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIES

None.

ITEM 4.MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES

Not applicable.

ITEM 5.OTHER INFORMATION 

 Not applicable.

ITEM 6.EXHIBITS


† The certifications attached as Exhibit 32.1 that accompany this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are not deemed filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and are not to be incorporated by reference into any filing of Seagate Technology plc under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, whether made before or after the date of this Form 10-Q, irrespective of any general incorporation language contained in such filing.

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


