UNITED STATES 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 






or 


For the transition period from to . 






  (State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Organization)       (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)    

  One Hamden Center, 2319 Whitney Avenue, Suite 3B, Hamden, CT       06518   

  (Address of Principal Executive Offices)       (Zip Code)    


  (Registrant’s Telephone Number, Including Area Code)    








As of April 30, 2019, the number of shares outstanding of the Company’s common stock, $0.01 par value, was 7,457,160. 

TRANSACT TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED 

INDEX 



PART I - FINANCIAL INFORMATION 

 Item 1.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS      

TRANSACT TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED 

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 



See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 


TRANSACT TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED 

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 



See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 


TRANSACT TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED 

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 



See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 


TRANSACT TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED 

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 



See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 


TRANSACT TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED 

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY 



See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 


TRANSACT TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED 

NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 


1. Basis of presentation 

The accompanying unaudited financial statements of TransAct Technologies Incorporated (“TransAct”, the “Company”, “we”, “us”, or “our”) have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”) for interim financial information. Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by U.S. GAAP to be included in full year financial statements. In the opinion of management, all adjustments considered necessary for a fair statement of the results for the periods presented have been included and are of a normal recurring nature. The December 31, 2018 Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet data was derived from audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by U.S. GAAP. These interim financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2018 included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

The financial position and results of operations of our U.K. subsidiary are measured using local currency as the functional currency. Assets and liabilities of such subsidiary have been translated at the end of period exchange rates, and related revenues and expenses have been translated at the exchange rate as of the date the transaction was recognized, with the resulting translation gain or loss recorded in “Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax”, in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and Condensed Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity. Transaction gains and losses are included in “Other, net” in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income. 

The results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full year. 



Disaggregation of revenue 

The following table disaggregates our revenue by market-type, as we believe it best depicts how the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of our revenue and cash flows are affected by economic factors. Sales and usage-based taxes are excluded from revenues. 


Contract balances 




Remaining performance obligations 

Remaining performance obligations represent the transaction price of firm orders for which a good or service has not been delivered to our customer. As of March 31, 2019, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations was $5.1 million. The Company expects to recognize revenue on $4.3 million of its remaining performance obligations within the next 12 months, $0.7 million within the next 24 months and the balance of these remaining performance obligations within the next 36 months. 




4. Accrued product warranty liability 

We generally warrant our products for up to 24 months and record the estimated cost of such product warranties at the time the sale is recorded. Estimated warranty costs are based upon actual past experience of product repairs and the related estimated cost of labor and material to make the necessary repairs. 



As of March 31, 2019, $199 thousand of the accrued product warranty liability were classified as current in "Accrued liabilities" in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and the remaining $54 thousand was classified as non-current in "Other liabilities". 


5. Earnings per share 



The computation of diluted earnings per share excludes the effect of the potential exercise of stock awards, including stock options and restricted stock units, when the average market price of the common stock is lower than the exercise price of the related stock award during the period. These outstanding stock awards are not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the effect would be anti-dilutive. For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, there were 540 thousand and 147 thousand, respectively, of potentially dilutive shares consisting of stock awards that were excluded from the calculation of earnings per diluted share.  


For the three months ended March 31, 2019, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per share, totaling $668 thousand, which was paid on March 15, 2019 to common shareholders of record at the close of business on February 20, 2019. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, dividends declared and paid totaled $673 thousand, or $0.09 per share. 


ASU 2016-02, “Leases”, which was codified in, and is referred to in this Report as, ASC 842, became effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018. The adoption requires a modified retrospective transition approach, applying the new standard to all leases existing at the date of initial application. An entity may choose to use either (1) its effective date or (2) the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements as its date of initial application. The Company has elected to adopt the standard using the effective date, January 1, 2019, as its date of initial application. Consequently, financial information will not be updated, and the disclosures required under the new standard will not be provided for dates and periods before January 1, 2019. 

The new standard requires lessees to apply a dual approach, classifying leases as either finance or operating leases based on the principle of whether or not the lease is effectively a financed purchase by the lessee. This classification will determine whether lease expense is recognized based on an effective interest method or on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease, respectively. A lessee is also required to record a right-of-use asset and a lease liability for all leases with a term of greater than 12 months regardless of their classification. Leases with a term of 12 months or less will be accounted for similar to existing guidance for operating leases today. If risks and rewards are conveyed without the transfer of control, the lease is treated as financing. If the lessor does not convey risks and rewards or control, the lease is treated as operating. 

We have elected certain of the practical expedients available under ASC 842 upon adoption. We have applied the practical expedient which allows prospective transition to ASC 842 on January 1, 2019. Under this transition practical expedient, we did not reassess lease classification, embedded leases or initial direct costs. We have applied the practical expedient for short-term leases. We have lease agreements that include lease and non-lease components, and we have not elected the practical expedients to combine these components for any of our leases. The adoption of ASC 842 had no effect on our Consolidated Statement of Income or Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Upon adoption of ASC 842, we recorded a $3.7 million right-of-use asset and a $3.9 million lease liability. The adoption of the new standard had no impact on retained earnings. 


We enter into lease agreements for the use of real estate space and certain other equipment under operating leases and we have no financing leases. We determine if an arrangement contains a lease at inception. Our leases are included in Right of use assets and Lease liabilities in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. 

Right of use assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease. Lease right of use assets and liabilities are recognized at the commencement date of the lease based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term. As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, the Company determines its incremental borrowing rate by using the rate of interest that the Company would have to pay to borrow on a collateralized basis over a similar term, an amount equal to the lease payments in a similar economic environment. Our lease right of use assets exclude lease incentives. Our leases have remaining lease terms of one to eight years, some of which include options to extend. The majority of our leases with options to extend provide for extensions of up to five years with the ability to terminate the lease within one year. The exercise of lease renewal options is at our sole discretion and our lease right of use assets and liabilities reflect only the options we are reasonably certain that we will exercise. Lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 

Operating lease expense for the quarter ended March 31, 2019 was $237 thousand. 







We recorded an income tax provision for the first quarter of 2019 of $115 thousand at an effective tax rate of 13.4%, compared to an income tax provision during the first quarter of 2018 of $178 thousand at an effective tax rate of 20.7%. The effective tax rate for the first quarter of 2019 was lower as it included the foreign-derived intangible income (“FDII”) deduction under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Reform Act”). The FDII deduction was not included in the effective tax rate for the first quarter of 2018 as the interpretive guidance for the deduction was not yet released. 

We are subject to U.S. federal income tax, as well as income tax in certain U.S. state and foreign jurisdictions. We have substantially concluded all U.S. federal, state and local income tax, and foreign tax regulatory examination matters through 2014. However, our federal tax returns for the years 2015 through 2017 remain open to examination. Various U.S. state and foreign tax jurisdiction tax years remain open to examination as well, but we believe that any additional assessment would be immaterial to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.  


As of March 31, 2019, we had $105 thousand of total gross unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would favorably affect the effective income tax rate in any future periods. We expect that $25 thousand of the $105 thousand of unrecognized tax benefits will reverse in 2019 upon the expiration of the statute of limitations. 

We recognize interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions in the income tax provision reported as "Deferred tax assets" in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. As of March 31, 2019, we had $20 thousand of accrued interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions. The Company maintains a valuation allowance against certain deferred tax assets where realization is not certain. 



Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

Forward Looking Statements 

Certain statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2019 (this “Report”), including without limitation statements in this Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, which are not historical facts are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”) and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements generally can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology, such as “may”, “will”, “expect”, “intend”, ”estimate”, “anticipate”, “believe”, “project” or “continue” or the negative thereof or other similar words. All forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to those listed in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. Actual results may differ materially from those discussed in, or implied by, the forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Report and we assume no duty to update them. As used in this Report, unless the context otherwise requires, references to “we”, “us”, “our”, the “Company” and “TransAct” refer to the consolidated operations of TransAct Technologies Incorporated, and its consolidated subsidiaries. 

Overview 

TransAct is a global leader in developing and selling software-driven technology and printing solutions for high growth markets including restaurant solutions, point of sale (“POS”) automation and banking, casino and gaming, lottery, and oil and gas. Our world-class products are designed from the ground up based on market and customer requirements and are sold under the BOHA!™, AccuDate™, Epic®, EPICENTRAL™, Ithaca®, and Printrex® brand names. Known and respected worldwide for innovative designs and real-world service reliability, our thermal and inkjet printers and terminals generate top-quality labels, coupons and transaction records such as receipts, tickets and other documents, as well as printed logging and plotting of data. We sell our products to original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”), value-added resellers, select distributors, as well as directly to end-users. Our product distribution spans across the Americas, Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Asia, Australia, the Caribbean Islands and the South Pacific. We also offer world-class service, support, spare parts, accessories and printing supplies to our growing worldwide base of products currently in use by our customers. Through our TransAct Services Group (“TSG”), we provide a complete range of supplies and consumables used in the printing and scanning activities of customers in the restaurant and hospitality, banking, retail, casino and gaming, government and oil and gas exploration markets. Through our webstore, www.transactsupplies.com, and our direct selling team, we address the demand for these products. We operate in one reportable segment, the design, development, and marketing of software-driven technology and printing solutions for high growth markets, and provide related services, supplies and spare parts. 

Critical Accounting Judgments and Estimates 

Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared by us in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The presentation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Our estimates include those related to revenue recognition, inventory obsolescence, the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, depreciable lives of equipment, warranty obligations, and contingent liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. 

For a complete description of our accounting policies, see Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates,” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. We have reviewed those policies and determined that they remain our critical accounting policies for the three months ended March 31, 2019. 






Net sales for the first quarter of 2019 decreased $0.7 million, or 6%, from the same period in 2018. Printer, terminal and other hardware sales volume decreased 11% to approximately 28,000 units driven primarily by a 27% decrease in unit volume from the POS automation and banking market and a 5% decrease in unit volume in the casino and gaming market. The average selling price of our printers, terminals and other hardware increased 4% for the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018 due primarily to lower POS automation and banking sales, which sell at a lower price than our other products.  

International sales for the first quarter of 2019 increased $0.5 million, or 23%, from the same period in 2018 primarily due to increased sales in the international casino and gaming market.  



The decrease in domestic restaurant solutions revenue for the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018 was driven largely by lower sales of our AccuDate 9700 terminal to our former U.S. distributor. This decrease was partially offset by increased sales of our AccuDate XL2e terminal, which has since been rebranded to the BOHA! terminal. Additionally, during the first quarter of 2019, we recognized our first sales of BOHA! software on a SaaS subscription basis. We expect sales of our restaurant solutions products to increase in 2019 compared to 2018 following the launch of our new BOHA! solution.  



The decrease in domestic POS automation and banking product revenue for the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018 was primarily driven by a 24% decrease in domestic sales of our Ithaca® 9000 printer, as sales to McDonald’s decreased for the first quarter of 2019 compared to the same period in 2018. We expect sales of our Ithaca® 9000 to McDonald’s to decrease in 2019 compared to 2018. 




The decrease in domestic sales of our casino and gaming products for the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018 was due to an 83% decrease in domestic sales of our off-premise gaming printers to an OEM, which we do not expect to reoccur in 2019; a 7% decrease in domestic sales of our thermal casino printers driven primarily by industry-wide weakness resulting in lower sales to our OEMs; and an 81% decrease in domestic EPICENTRAL™ software sales, as we had no new installations during the first quarter of 2019 compared to one new installation in 2018. Sales of EPICENTRALTM are project based and as a result, may fluctuate significantly quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year. 

International casino and gaming product sales increased for the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018 due to a 77% increase in sales of our thermal casino printers largely to customers in Asia. This increase was partially offset by a 70% decline in international sales of our off-premise gaming printers to Europe, Australia and Asia. Sales of our off-premise gaming printers are largely project-oriented and therefore may fluctuate significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year. 

We expect domestic and international casino and gaming sales in 2019 to be relatively consistent with the sales levels achieved during 2018. 



Our sales to IGT are directly dependent on the timing and number of new and upgraded lottery terminal installations that IGT performs, and as a result, may fluctuate significantly quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year. Our sales to IGT are not indicative of IGT’s overall business or revenue. We expect lottery printer sales to be lower for 2019 compared to 2018, as we have shifted our focus away from the lottery market to our higher value, technology-enabled restaurant solutions and casino and gaming products. 



The increase in sales of Printrex printers for the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018 resulted from higher domestic and international sales in the oil and gas market. We expect total Printrex sales to increase slightly for 2019 compared to 2018, as we expect to benefit from a continued modest recovery in the oil and gas industry.  




The increase in domestic revenue from TSG for the first quarter of 2019 as compared to the first quarter of 2018 was primarily due to an increase in label sales and increased service revenue related to our restaurant solutions products. Sales of our restaurant solutions labels were five times higher on a growing installed base of AccuDate and BOHA! terminals. Service revenue also increased 24% for the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018. Additionally, we had a 18% increase in sales of our legacy HP inkjet cartridges used in our banking printers. We do not expect this trend to continue for HP inkjet cartridges as we exited the banking market at the end of 2018. These increases were offset by a 31% decrease in sales of lottery printer spare parts to IGT. Based on our backlog of orders and contractual commitments for replacement parts, primarily from IGT, for our installed base of lottery printers, we expect TSG sales to decrease in 2019 compared to 2018. 

Internationally, TSG revenue increased for the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018 primarily due to a 102% increase in sales of replacement parts and accessories to international casino and gaming customers. 



Gross profit is measured as revenue less cost of sales, which includes primarily the cost of all raw materials and component parts, direct labor, manufacturing overhead expenses, cost of finished products purchased directly from our contract manufacturers and expenses associated with installations of our EPICENTRALTM print system. For the first quarter of 2019, gross profit increased $224 thousand, or 4%, despite a sales decrease of 6% for the first quarter in 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018. Our gross margin increased 480 basis points, increasing to 52.7% for the first quarter of 2019 compared to 47.9% for the first quarter of 2018. The increased gross margin reflects a favorable shift in sales mix towards higher-value, technology driven solutions, as well as lower sales of POS printers, which carry lower margins than our other products. 



Engineering, design and product development expenses primarily includes salary and payroll related expenses for our hardware and software engineering staff, depreciation and design expenses (including prototype printer expenses, outside design, development and testing services, supplies and contract software development expenses). Such expenses decreased $56 thousand, or 5%, for the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018, primarily due to lower expenses related to product development for the restaurant solutions and casino and gaming markets. We expect engineering, design and product development expenses in 2019 to be consistent with 2018. 




Selling and marketing expenses primarily include salaries and payroll related expenses for our sales and marketing staff, sales commissions, travel expenses, expenses associated with the lease of sales offices, advertising, trade show expenses, e-commerce and other promotional marketing expenses. Such expenses increased by $281 thousand, or 18%, for the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018 primarily due to higher compensation expenses related to the hiring of additional outside and technical sales staff during the latter part of 2018 and first quarter of 2019. We expect selling and marketing expense to increase significantly in 2019 compared to 2018 due to the full-year impact of hiring additional sales staff during 2018, as well as investments to support our new suite of BOHA! software and hardware solutions.  



General and administrative expenses primarily include salaries, incentive compensation, and other payroll related expenses for our executive, accounting, human resources and information technology staff, expenses for our corporate headquarters, professional and legal expenses, telecommunication expenses, and other expenses related to being a publicly-traded company. General and administrative expenses increased $78 thousand, or 4%, for the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018 due primarily to higher professional and legal expenses. These increases were partially offset by lower recruiting expense and severance expense incurred during the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018. We expect general and administrative expense to be higher in 2019 compared to 2018 due to higher incentive compensation and additional investment to support restaurant solutions. 



Our operating income decreased $79 thousand, or 9%, and our operating margin decreased slightly by 30 basis points for the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018. The decrease in both operating profit and operating margin were primarily due to a 6% increase in operating expenses, partially offset by a 480 basis point increase in gross margin, for the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018. 

Interest. We recorded net interest expense of $6 thousand for the first quarter of 2019 compared to $8 thousand for the first quarter of 2018. We do not expect significant changes in net interest expense for the full year 2019. 

Other, net. We recorded other income of $90 thousand for the first quarter of 2019 compared to $10 thousand for the first quarter of 2018. The increase in other income was due to higher foreign currency exchange gains recorded by our U.K. subsidiary for the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018. Going forward, we may continue to experience more foreign exchange gains or losses depending on the level of sales to Europe through our U.K. subsidiary and the change in exchange rates of the Euro and Pound Sterling against the U.S. dollar. 

Income Taxes. We recorded an income tax provision for the first quarter of 2019 of $115 thousand at an effective tax rate of 13.4%, compared to an income tax provision during the first quarter of 2018 of $178 thousand at an effective tax rate of 20.7%. The effective tax rate for the first quarter of 2019 was lower as it included the foreign-derived intangible income (“FDII”) deduction under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Reform Act”). The FDII deduction was not included in the effective tax rate for the first quarter of 2018 as the interpretive guidance for the deduction was not yet released. We expect our effective tax rate to be between 13% and 14% for the full year 2019. 


Net Income. We reported net income for the first quarter of 2019 of $746 thousand, or $0.10 per diluted share, compared to $680 thousand, or $0.09 per diluted share, for the first quarter of 2018. 

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

Cash Flow 

For the first three months of 2019, our cash and cash equivalents balance decreased $2.7 million, or 59%, from December 31, 2018. We ended the first quarter of 2019 with $1.9 million in cash and cash equivalents, of which $0.5 million was held by our U.K. subsidiary, and no debt outstanding. 



  ●  We reported net income of $0.7 million.      

  ●  We recorded depreciation and amortization of $0.3 million, and share-based compensation expense of $0.2 million.      

  ●  Accounts receivable decreased $1.2 million, or 15%, due to the collection of receivables for 2018 sales.      

  ●  Inventory increased $1.5 million, or 12%, due to the buildup of inventory on hand to support future anticipated sales of BOHA! hardware product for the restaurant solutions market.      

  ●  Prepaid income taxes decreased $0.1 million during the first quarter of 2019.      

  ●  Other current and long term assets increased $0.4 million, or 65%, due primarily to an advanced payment of royalty fees.      

  ●  Accounts payable decreased $1.3 million, or 36%, due primarily to inventory purchases made towards the end of the fourth quarter of 2018 that were subsequently paid in the first quarter of 2019.      

  ●  Accrued liabilities and other liabilities decreased $1 million, or 27%, due primarily to the payment of 2018 annual bonuses in March 2019.      


  ●  We reported net income of $0.7 million.      

  ●  We recorded depreciation and amortization of $0.2 million, and share-based compensation expense of $0.2 million.      

  ●  Accounts receivable decreased $2.3 million, or 21%, due to the collection of past due receivables for 2017 sales made to our former international casino and gaming distributor.      

  ●  Prepaid income taxes decreased $0.2 million during the first quarter of 2018.      

  ●  Accounts payable decreased $0.7 million, or 19%, due primarily to higher inventory purchases made towards the end of the fourth quarter of 2017 compared to the first quarter of 2018 that were subsequently paid in the first quarter of 2018.      

  ●  Accrued liabilities and other liabilities decreased $0.9 million, or 21%, due primarily to the payment of 2017 annual bonuses in March 2018.      


Capital expenditures and capitalized software development costs for 2019 are expected to be approximately $1.3 million, primarily for software development for our new restaurant solutions BOHA! products, new product tooling, new computer software and equipment purchases. 



Credit Facility and Borrowings 

We maintain a credit facility (the "TD Bank Credit Facility") with TD Bank N.A. (“TD Bank”), which provides for a $20 million revolving credit line. On November 21, 2017, we signed an amendment to the TD Bank Credit Facility through November 28, 2022. Borrowings under the revolving credit line bear a floating rate of interest at the prime rate minus one percent and are secured by a lien on all of our assets. We also pay a fee of 0.125% on unused borrowings under the revolving credit line. The amendment increased the amount of revolving credit loans we may use to fund future cash dividend payments or treasury share buybacks to $12.5 million from $10 million.  



As of March 31, 2019, borrowings available under the TD Bank Credit facility were $20 million. 

Shareholder Dividend Payments 

In 2012, our Board of Directors initiated a quarterly cash dividend program which is subject to the Board’s approval each quarter. Our Board of Directors declared an increase to the quarterly cash dividend from $0.06 to $0.07 per share in May 2013, from $0.07 to $0.08 per share in May 2014, and from $0.08 to $0.09 per share in May 2017. Dividends declared and paid on our common stock totaled $0.7 million or $0.09 per share in the first quarter of both 2019 and 2018. On April 30, 2019 our Board of Directors approved the second quarter 2019 dividend in the amount of $0.09 per share payable on or about June 14, 2019 to common shareholders of record at the close of business on May 20, 2019. We expect to pay approximately $2.7 million in cash dividends to our common shareholders during 2019. 

Stock Repurchase Program 

On March 1, 2018, our Board of Directors approved a new stock repurchase program (the “2018 Stock Repurchase Program”). Under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program, we are authorized to repurchase up to $5 million of our outstanding shares of common stock from time to time in the open market at prevailing market prices based on market conditions, share price and other factors. The 2018 Stock Repurchase Program expires on December 31, 2019, if we do not discontinue the repurchase program prior to such time. We use the cost method to account for treasury stock purchases, under which the price paid for the stock is charged to the treasury stock account. Repurchases of our common stock are accounted for as of the settlement date. During the three months ended March 31, 2019, we repurchased no shares of our common stock. During the three months ended March 31, 2018, we repurchased 122,780 shares of our common stock for approximately $1.6 million at an average price per share of $12.72.  

Resource Sufficiency 

We believe that our cash and cash equivalents on hand, our expected cash flows generated from operating activities and borrowings available under our TD Bank Credit Facility will provide sufficient resources to meet our working capital needs, finance our capital expenditures and additions to capitalized software, and dividend payments, and meet our liquidity requirements through at least the next twelve months. 


We have no material off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K. 

 Item 3.   QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK      

The disclosure of our exposure to market risk is set forth under Part II, Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk”, of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. There has been no material change in our exposure to market risk during the three months ended March 31, 2019. 


 Item 4.   CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES      

Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer (our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, respectively), evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of March 31, 2019. The term “disclosure controls and procedures,” as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms. Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the company’s management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives, and management necessarily applies its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures. Based on the evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of March 31, 2019, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of such date, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level. 

No change in our internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) occurred during the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2019 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 

PART II. OTHER INFORMATION 

 Item 1.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS      

The Company may, in the ordinary course of business, become a party to litigation involving collection matters, contract claims and other legal proceedings relating to the conduct of its business. As of March 31, 2019, we are unaware of any legal proceedings pending or threatened against the Company that management believes are likely to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 

 Item 1A.  RISK FACTORS

Information regarding risk factors appears under Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in that Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks factors described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties, not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial, also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or future results. 

 Item 2.  UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS       



 Item 3.   DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIES      

None. 

 Item 4.   MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES      

Not applicable. 


 Item 5.  OTHER INFORMATION        

None.  

 Item 6.  EXHIBITS       



SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 


