
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 



☑ QUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 

For the quarterly period ended March 31, 2019 

or 




TAITRON COMPONENTS INCORPORATED 



  (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)   (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)    

  28040 West Harrison Parkway, Valencia, California    91355-4162   

   (Address of principal executive offices)   (Zip Code)    





Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer”, “accelerated filer”, “smaller reporting company”, and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 


  Non-accelerated filer ☑   Smaller reporting company ☑   









Index  

PART I - FINANCIAL INFORMATION 

Item 1. Financial Statements (Unaudited) 

TAITRON COMPONENTS INCORPORATED 

Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets 


See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited). 


Index  

TAITRON COMPONENTS INCORPORATED 

Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income 


See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited). 


Index  

TAITRON COMPONENTS INCORPORATED 

Condensed Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity 


See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited). 


Index  

 TAITRON COMPONENTS INCORPORATED 

Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 


See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited). 


Index  

TAITRON COMPONENTS INCORPORATED 

Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 

1 – SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

Overview of Business 

In 1989, we were formed and incorporated in California. We maintain a majority-owned subsidiary in Mexico (since 1998) and two divisions in each of Taiwan (since 1997) and China (since 2005). Our Mexico location closed all operations in May 2013 (final closure is pending sale of our local 15,000 sq. ft. office and warehouse facility) and our Taiwan and China locations are for supporting overseas customers, inventory sourcing, purchases and coordinating the manufacture of our products. Our China location also serves as the engineering design support center responsible for arranging pre-production scheduling and mass production runs with joint venture partners for our projects, making component datasheets and test specifications, preparing samples, monitoring quality of shipments and performing failure analysis reports. 

Basis of Presentation 

The unaudited condensed consolidated interim financial statements include the accounts of the Company and all wholly owned divisions, including its 60% majority-owned subsidiary, Taitron Components Mexico, S.A. de C.V. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. 

These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) for interim financial information and the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 8 of Regulation S-X. Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP for complete financial statements. In the opinion of management, all adjustments of a normal recurring nature and considered necessary for a fair presentation of its financial condition and results of operations for the interim periods presented in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q have been included. Operating results for the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of financial results for the full year. These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. In preparing these financial statements, management is required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the condensed consolidated financial statements and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Significant estimates and assumptions included in the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements relate to the allowance for sales returns, doubtful accounts, inventory reserves, accrued liabilities and deferred income taxes. 

New Accounting Pronouncements 

In February 2016, the FASB issued a new accounting standard on leasing. The new standard will require companies to record most leased assets and liabilities on the balance sheet, and also proposes a dual model for recognizing expense. This guidance was effective in our first quarter of 2019. We have evaluated the impact of adopting this guidance and the adoption of these accounting changes have not impacted our assets and liabilities nor our net income or equity, as we currently do not lease any assets. 

In January 2017, the FASB issued a new accounting standard which clarifies the definition of a business with the objective of adding guidance to assist entities with evaluating whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions or disposals of assets or businesses. This guidance was effective in our first quarter of 2019. The adoption of this guidance has not had a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. 

In May 2017, the FASB issued a new accounting standard which provides guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting in ASC Topic 718. Under the new guidance, modification accounting is required only if the fair value, the vesting conditions, or the classification of the award (as equity or liability) changes as a result of the change in terms or conditions. This guidance was effective in our first quarter of 2019. The adoption of this guidance has not had a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. 


Index  

Revenue recognition 

Revenue is recognized at the point at which control of the underlying products are transferred to the customer. Satisfaction of our performance obligations occur upon the transfer of control of products, either from our facilities or directly from suppliers to customers. We consider customer purchase orders to be the contracts with a customer. All revenue is generated from contracts with customers. 

In determining the transaction price, we evaluate whether the price is subject to refund or adjustment to determine the net consideration to which we expect to receive. 

Taxes assessed by a governmental authority on revenue-producing transactions are excluded from revenue. 

Shipping and handling costs associated with outbound freight after control over a product has transferred to a customer are accounted for as fulfillment costs and are included in cost of products sold. 

Based upon the nature of our contracts with customers and our performance obligations within those contracts, we have no contract assets or liabilities as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018. 

Nature of products 



ODM Components - Our private labeled electronic components. 

Distribution Components - Our name brand electronic components. 

Disaggregation of revenue 

In the following table, revenue is disaggregated by primary geographical market, major product line, and timing of revenue recognition. 



Index  


Inventory – Inventory, consisting principally of products held for resale, is recorded at the lower of cost (determined using the first in-first out method) or net realizable value. We had inventory balances in the amount of $4,700,000 and $4,597,000 at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively, which is presented net of valuation allowances of $7,229,000 and $7,189,000, respectively. We evaluate inventories to identify excess, high-cost, slow-moving or other factors rendering inventories as unmarketable at normal profit margins. Due to the complexity of managing and maintaining a large inventory of product offerings, estimates are made regarding adjustments to the carrying values of inventories. Based on our assumptions about future demand and market conditions, inventories are carried at the lower of cost or net realizable value. If our assumptions about future demand change, or market conditions are less favorable than those projected, additional write-downs of inventories or valuation allowances may be required. In any case, actual amounts could be different from those estimated. 

3 – OTHER ASSETS 




$193,000 relates to 1,322,552 common shares of ZT and represents approximately 9% of their total outstanding shares although we do not have significant influence or control.    


$186,000 relates to 317,428 shares of preferred convertible shares of ZT with our option after 3 (three) years to convert the investment into common stock or refundable bearing 7% annual interest rate.    

Both investments in ZT are accounted for under the cost (plus impairment) basis of accounting. 

4 – RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 

We made payments to K.S. Best International Co. Ltd., a company controlled by the brother of our Chief Executive Officer of approximately $0 and $6,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. These payments were for professional fees related to the operational management of our Taiwan office. In addition, we also made interest expense payments on our credit facility of approximately $0 and $6,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 


Index  

5 – SHARE BASED COMPENSATION 



At March 31, 2019, the range of individual outstanding weighted average exercise prices was $0.98 to $1.78. 

6 – COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES 

Inventory Purchasing 

Outstanding commitments to purchase inventory from suppliers aggregated $2,040,000 as of March 31, 2019. 


Index  

Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements, including the related notes, appearing in Item 1 of Part 1 of this quarterly report on Form 10-Q, as well as our most recent annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.  

This document contains forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 which are subject to risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements usually are denoted by words or phrases such as “believes,” “expects,” “projects,” “estimates,” “anticipates,” “will likely result” or similar expressions. We wish to caution readers that all forward-looking statements are necessarily speculative and not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made, and to advise readers that actual results could vary due to a variety of risks and uncertainties. We do not undertake any duty to update forward-looking statements after the date they are made or to conform them to actual results or to changes in circumstances or expectations.  

References to “Taitron,” the “Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” refer to Taitron Components Incorporated and its wholly owned and majority-owned subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise specifically defines. 

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

Use of Estimates - Management has made a number of estimates and assumptions relating to the reporting of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities to prepare our condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These estimates have a significant impact on our valuation and reserve accounts relating to the allowance for sales returns, doubtful accounts, inventory reserves and deferred income taxes. Actual results could differ from these estimates. 

Revenue Recognition – Revenue is recognized upon shipment of the products, which is when legal transfer of title occurs and control of the product is transferred to the customer. Reserves for sales allowances and customer returns are established based upon historical experience and our estimates of future returns. Sales returns for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 were $3,000 and $2,000, respectively. The allowance for sales returns and doubtful accounts at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 aggregated $39,000 and $38,000, respectively. 

Inventory – Inventory, consisting principally of products held for resale, is recorded at the lower of cost (determined using the first in-first out method) or net realizable value. We had inventory balances in the amount of $4,700,000 and $4,597,000 at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively, which is presented net of valuation allowances of $7,229,000 and $7,189,000, respectively. We evaluate inventories to identify excess, high-cost, slow-moving or other factors rendering inventories as unmarketable at normal profit margins. Due to the large number of transactions and the complexity of managing and maintaining a large inventory of product offerings, estimates are made regarding adjustments to the cost of inventories. If our assumptions about future demand change, or market conditions are less favorable than those projected, additional write-downs of inventories may be required. In any case, actual amounts could be different from those estimated. 

Overview 

We are primarily focused on supplying ODM products for our OEM customer’s multi-year turn-key projects. We also distribute discrete semiconductors, commodity Integrated Circuits (ICs), optoelectronic devices and passive components to other electronic distributors, CEMs and OEMs, who incorporate them in their products. 

Our core strategy has shifted to primarily focus on higher margin ODM Projects that require custom products designed for specific applications to OEM customers, and away from actively marketing our superstore strategy of maintaining a vast quantity of electronic components to fill customer orders immediately from available stock held in inventory. As a result, we expect our components inventory will be more passively marketed and distributed online for clearance through our internet sales portal, however at potentially lower rates due to the pricing pressures normally attributed with online shopping. 

In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we have classified inventory as a current asset in our March 31, 2019, condensed consolidated financial statements representing approximately 47% of current assets and 34% of total assets. However, if all or a substantial portion of the inventory was required to be immediately liquidated, the inventory would not be as readily marketable or liquid as other items included or classified as a current asset, such as cash. We cannot assure you that demand in the discrete semiconductor market will increase and that market conditions will improve. Therefore, it is possible that further declines in our carrying values of inventory may result. 


Index  

Our gross profit margins are subject to a number of factors, including product demand, the relative strength of the U.S. dollar, provisions for inventory reserves, our ability to purchase inventory at favorable prices and our sales product mix. 

Results of Operations 

First quarter of 2019 versus 2018. 

Net sales in the first quarter of 2019 totaled $1,384,000 versus $1,655,000 in the comparable period for 2018, a decrease of $271,000 or 16.4% over the same period last year. The decrease was primarily driven by a decrease of ODM project sales volume. 

Gross profit for the first quarter of 2019 was $683,000 versus $654,000 in the comparable period for 2018, and gross margin percentage of net sales was 49.4% in the first quarter of 2019 versus 39.5% in the comparable period for 2018. The approximately 10% gross profit increase was driven by an increase of ODM project sales unit pricing contributing approximately 5% and shipments of new higher gross margin ODM products which contributed approximately 4% of the increase. 

Selling, general and administrative expenses in the first quarter of 2019 totaled $530,000 versus $560,000 in the comparable period for 2018. The $30,000 decrease was primarily driven by the decreases of $15,000 in professional services and $9,000 in commissions paid to our independent sales representatives. 

Other income, net of other expense, in the first quarter of 2019 was $25,000 versus $48,000 in the comparable period for 2018. Other income was primarily derived from the rental income of excess office space at our headquarters in Valencia, CA. 

Income tax provision was $1,000 for the first quarter of 2019 versus $2,000 in 2018, as we do not expect significant taxable income for the year ending December 31, 2019. 

Net income was $184,000 for the first quarter of 2019 versus $59,000 in the comparable period for 2018, an increase of $125,000 resulting from the reasons discussed above. 

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

We historically have satisfied our liquidity requirements through cash generated from operations, short-term commercial loans, subordinated related party promissory notes and issuance of equity securities. 

Cash flows provided by operating activities were $260,000 as opposed to $493,000 in the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The decrease of $233,000 in cash flows provided by operations compared with the prior period resulted from changes in operating assets and liabilities, primarily from inventory and accounts payable compared to the prior period. 

Cash flows used for investing activities were $191,000 and $3,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The increase of $188,000 compared with the prior period was primarily due to our $186,000 investment in convertible securities (see Note 3). 

Cash flows used for financing activities were $95,000 and $139,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The decrease of $44,000 compared with the prior period was primarily due to $76,000 of stock options exercised and partially offset by $32,000 of increased cash dividend payments. The increase to our cash dividends was based upon our November 2, 2018 announcement that our quarterly cash dividends increased by 20% from $0.025 per share to $0.03 per share. 

We believe that funds generated from operations, existing cash balances and, if necessary, related party short-term loans, are likely to be sufficient to finance our working capital and capital expenditure requirements for the foreseeable future. If these funds are not sufficient, we may secure new sources of asset-based lending on accounts receivables or issue debt or equity securities. Otherwise, we may need to liquidate assets to generate the necessary working capital. 

Inventory is included and classified as a current asset. As of March 31, 2019, inventory represented approximately 47% of current assets and 34% of total assets. However, it is likely to take over one year for the inventory to turn and therefore is likely not saleable within a one-year time frame. Hence, inventory would not be as readily marketable or liquid as other items included in current assets, such as cash. 


Index  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 

As of March 31, 2019, we had no off-balance sheet arrangements. 

Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. - Not applicable. 

Item 4. Controls and Procedures. 

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures  

Our management has evaluated, under the supervision and with the participation of our principal executive and principal financial officers, the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report pursuant to Rule 13a-15(b) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”). Based on that evaluation, our principal executive and principal financial officers concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this report, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective in ensuring that information required to be disclosed in our Exchange Act reports is (1) recorded, processed, summarized and reported in a timely manner, and (2) accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive and financial officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. 

Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting  

There have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the period covered by this report that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 


Index  

PART II - OTHER INFORMATION 

Item 1. Legal Proceedings. - None 

Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds. - None 

Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities. - None 

Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. 

Item 5. Other Information. – None 

Item 6. Exhibits. 



Index  

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 


