

Table of Contents 

UNITED STATES  

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  


FORM 




QUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934     

For the quarterly period ended June 30, 2019  

OR  


TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934     

For the transition period from to  

Commission File No.


TERADYNE, INC.  








Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation 

S-T (232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files) Yes 



Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a 

non-accelerated filer, smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer”, “smaller reporting company”, and “emerging growth company” in Rule


If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. 


Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 

12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes 



Securities registered purs


The number of shares outstanding of the registrant’s only class of Common Stock as of August 5, 2019 was 169,945,820 shares.  

Table of Contents 

TERADYNE, INC.  


Table of Contents 

PART I  

 Item 1:  

Financial Statements   

TERADYNE, INC.  

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS  


The accompanying notes, together with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Teradyne’s Annual Report on Form 


year ended December 31, 2018, are an integral part of the condensed 

consolidated financial statements.   


Table of Contents 

TERADYNE, INC.  

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS  


The accompanying notes, together with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Teradyne’s  

Annual Report on Form 

10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, are an integral part of the condensed 

consolidated financial statements.   


Table of Contents 

TERADYNE, INC.  

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME  



The accompanying notes, together with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Teradyne’s  

Annual Report on Form 

10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, are an integral part of the condensed 

 consolidated financial statements.   


Table of Contents 

TERADYNE, INC.  

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY  


The accompanying notes, together with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Teradyne’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, are an integral part of the condensed consolidated financial statements. 


Table of Contents 

TERADYNE, INC.  

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS  


The accompanying notes, together with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Teradyne’s  

Annual Report on Form 

10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, are an integral part of the condensed 

consolidated financial statements.   


Table of Contents 

TERADYNE, INC.  

NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  


A. THE COMPANY  


   • 

semiconductor test (“Semiconductor Test”) systems;   

   • 

industrial automation (“Industrial Automation”) products;   

   • 


   • 

wireless test (“Wireless Test”) systems.   

B. ACCOUNTING POLICIES   

Basis of Presentation  

The consolidated interim financial statements include the accounts of Teradyne and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. These interim financial statements are unaudited and reflect all normal recurring adjustments that are, in the opinion of management, necessary for the fair statement of such interim financial statements. Certain prior year amounts were reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. The December 31, 2018 condensed consolidated balance sheet data was derived from audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.  

The accompanying financial information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained in Teradyne’s Annual Report on Form 

10-K, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on March 1, 2019, for the year ended December 31, 2018.  

Preparation of Financial Statements and Use of Estimates  

The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates.   

Investment in Other Company 

Teradyne holds an investment in a private company 

that develops and sells advanced wearable technology



Table of Contents  

Leases  

In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 


“Leases (Topic 842)” (“Topic 842”), which requires a lessee to record a 

right-of-use (“ROU”) asset and a lease liability on the balance sheet for operating leases with terms longer than twelve months. Teradyne adopted this standard and the related amendments (collectively “ASC 842”) on January 1, 2019 and utilized the modified retrospective approach provided by ASU 



Improvements,” that allowed for a cumulative effect adjustment in the period of adoption. Under this method of adoption, the comparative information in the consolidated financial statements has not been revised and continues to be reported under the previously applicable lease accounting guidance (ASC 840). Teradyne also utilized the package of practical expedients permitted 

under the transition guidance which included the carry-forward of historical lease classification. Adoption of ASC 842

 resulted in recording ROU assets and lease liabilities of approximately $50.1


 million, respectively. Operating lease liabilities were calculated using the discount rate on January 1


. The adoption of ASC 842

 did not have a material impact on beginning retained earnings, the consolidated statement of operations, cash flows, or earnings per share.   

Under ASC 842, a contract is or contains a lease when Teradyne has the right to control the use of an identified asset. Teradyne determines if an arrangement is a lease at inception of the contract, which is the date on which the terms of the contract are agreed to and the agreement creates enforceable rights and obligations. The commencement date of the lease is the date that the lessor makes an underlying asset available for use by Teradyne. As of June 30, 2019, Teradyne does not have material leases that have not yet commenced.   

Teradyne determines if the lease is operating or finance at the lease commencement date based upon the terms of the lease and the nature of the asset. The lease term used to calculate the lease liability includes options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that the option will be exercised.  

For leases commencing after January 1, 2019, the lease liability is measured at the present value of future lease payments, discounted using the discount rate for the lease at the commencement date. As Teradyne is typically unable to determine the implicit rate, Teradyne uses an incremental borrowing rate based on the lease term and economic environment at commencement date. Teradyne initially measures payments based on an index by using the applicable rate at lease commencement. Variable payments that do not depend on an index are not included in the lease liability and are recognized as they are incurred. The ROU asset is initially measured as the amount of lease liability, adjusted for any initial lease costs, prepaid lease payments, and reduced by any lease incentives.  

Teradyne’s contracts often include 

non-lease components such as common area maintenance. Teradyne elected the practical expedient to account for the lease and 


C. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS  

On January 26, 2017, the FASB issued ASU 


“Intangibles—Goodwill and Other (Topic


one-step impairment test will be applied to goodwill at all reporting units, even those with zero or negative carrying amounts. Entities will be required to disclose the amount of goodwill at reporting units with zero or negative carrying amounts. The revised guidance will be applied prospectively, and is effective in 2020. Early adoption is permitted for any impairment tests performed after January 1, 2017. Teradyne is currently evaluating the impact of this ASU on its financial position, results of operations and statements of cash flows.  


Table of Contents  

D. ACQUISITIONS AND INVESTMENT IN OTHER COMPANY

Acquisitions 

Lemsys SA  

On January 30, 2019, Teradyne acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Lemsys SA (“Lemsys”) for a total purchase price of approximately $9.1 million. Lemsys strengthens Teradyne’s position in the electrification trends of vehicles, solar, wind, and industrial applications. The Lemsys acquisition was accounted for as a business combination and, accordingly, the results have been included in Teradyne’s Semiconductor Test segment from the date of acquisition. Teradyne’s final allocation of the purchase price was goodwill of $1.4 million, which is not deductible for tax purposes, acquired intangible assets of $4.6 million with an average estimated useful life of 5.2 years, and $3.1 million of net tangible assets. The acquisition was not material to Teradyne’s condensed consolidated financial statements.  

Mobile Industrial Robots  

On April 25, 2018, Teradyne acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Mobile Industrial Robots Aps (“MiR”), a Danish limited liability company located in Odense, Denmark. MiR is the leading maker of collaborative autonomous mobile robots for industrial applications. MiR is part of Teradyne’s Industrial Automation segment.  

The total purchase price of $197.8 million included $145.2 million of cash paid and $52.6 million of contingent consideration measured at fair value. The contingent consideration is payable in Euros upon the achievement of certain thresholds and targets for revenue and earnings before interest and taxes for periods from January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018; January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2019; and January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2020. The contingent consideration related to revenue for the period from January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018 in the amount of $30.8 million was paid in March 2019. The remaining maximum contingent consideration that could be paid is $84.1 million.   


The MiR acquisition was accounted for as a business combination and, accordingly, the results have been included in Teradyne’s consolidated results of operations from the date of acquisition. MiR’s products will help expand the Industrial Automation segment, which is a key component of Teradyne’s growth strategy. The allocation of the total purchase price to MiR’s net tangible liabilities and identifiable intangible assets was based on their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date. The excess of the purchase price over the identifiable intangible assets and net tangible liabilities in the amount of $136.0 million was allocated to goodwill, which is not deductible for tax purposes. MiR’s results have been included in Teradyne’s Industrial Automation segment from the date of acquisition.   


Table of Contents  




Pro forma results for the three and six months ended July 1, 2018 were adjusted to exclude $2.3 million and $2.9 million, respectively,

 of acquisition related costs, and $0.4 million of non-recurring expense related to fair value adjustment to acquisition-date inventory

.  

Energid Technologies Corporation  

On February 26, 2018, Teradyne acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Energid Technologies Corporation (“Energid”) for a total purchase price of approximately $27.6 million. Energid’s technology enables and simplifies the programming of complex robotic motions used in a wide variety of end markets, ranging from heavy industry to healthcare, utilizing both traditional robots and collaborative robots. The Energid acquisition   


Table of Contents 

was accounted for as a business combination and, accordingly, Energid’s results have been included in Teradyne’s Industrial Automation segment from the date of acquisition. As of the acquisition date, Teradyne’s purchase price allocation was goodwill of $14.4 million which is deductible for tax purposes, acquired intangible assets of $12.3 million with an average estimated useful life of 7.7 years, and $1.0 million of net tangible assets. The acquisition was not material to Teradyne’s condensed consolidated financial statements.  

Investment in Other Company 

On June 3, 2019, Teradyne invested $15.0 million in RealWear, Inc. (“RealWear”). RealWear, a private company, develops and sells advanced wearable technology including industrial, hands-free, head-mounted augmented reality devices that make the workplace safer and more productive. Teradyne’s investment in RealWear aligns with its strategy of bringing the power of advanced automation to companies of all sizes to improve the productivity of their employees and the quality of their products and services. The investment was recorded at cost and is evaluated for impairment or an indication of changes in fair value resulting from observable price changes in orderly transactions for the identical or a similar investment of the same issuer on a quarterly basis. At June 30, 2019 the value of the investment was $15.0 million.  

E. REVENUE  


Revenue from Contracts with Customers” were $562.5 million and $1,054.9 million, respectively. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, Teradyne also recognized $1.7 million and $3.4 million, respectively, of revenues from leases of Teradyne systems, which are accounted for outside of ASC 606. 


Revenue from Contracts with Customers” were $523.3 million and $1,006.5 million, respectively. 

For the three and six months ended July 1, 2018, Teradyne also recognized $3.6 million and 

$7.9 million, respectively, of revenues from leases of Teradyne systems, which are accounted for outside of ASC 606.  

Disaggregation of Revenue   

The following table provides information about disaggregated revenue by primary geographical market, major product line and timing of revenue recognition.    



Table of Contents   





Table of Contents   

Contract Balances  

During the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, Teradyne recognized $13.3 million and $33.4 million, respectively, that was previously included within the deferred revenue and customer advances balances. During the three and six months ended July 1, 2018, Teradyne recognized 



 million, respectively, that was previously included within the deferred revenue and customer advances balances. This revenue primarily relates to extended warranties, training, application support, and post contract support. Each of these represents a distinct performance obligation. Teradyne expects to recognize 72

% of the remaining performance obligation in the next 12


% in 


 years, and the remainder thereafter. 

Accounts Receivable  

Teradyne sells certain trade accounts receivables on a 

non-recourse basis to third-party financial institutions pursuant to factoring agreements. Teradyne accounts for these transactions as sales of receivables and presents cash proceeds as a cash provided by operating activities in the consolidated statements of cash flows. Total trade accounts receivable sold under the factoring agreements were $82.1 million and $8.9 million for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and July 1, 2018, respectively. Factoring fees for the sales of receivables were recorded in interest expense and were not material.  

F. INVENTORIES   


Inventory reserves at June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018 were $102.6 million and $100.8 million, respectively.   

G. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS  

Cash Equivalents  

Teradyne considers all highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less at the date of acquisition to be cash equivalents.     

Marketable Securities  

Teradyne’s 

available-for-sale debt securities are classified as Level 2 and equity securities are classified as Level 1. Contingent consideration is classified as Level 3. The vast majority of Level 2 securities are fixed income securities priced by third party pricing vendors. These pricing vendors utilize the most recent observable market information in pricing these securities or, if specific prices are not available, use other observable inputs like market transactions involving identical or comparable securities. 

During the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and July 1, 2018, there were no transfers in or out of Level 1, Level 2, or Level 3 financial instruments.  

Realized gains recorded in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 were $0.1 million and $0.2 million, respectively. Realized losses recorded in the six months ended June 30, 2019 were $0.1 million.   


Table of Contents   

Realized gains recorded in the three and six months ended July 1, 2018 were $0.1 million and $0.4 million, respectively. Realized losses recorded in the six months ended July 1, 2018 were $1.5 million. Realized gains are included in interest income and realized losses are included in interest expense.  

Unrealized gains on equity securities recorded in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 were $0.9 million and $3.7 million, respectively. Unrealized gains on equity securities recorded in the three and six months ended July 1, 2018 were $0.4 million. Unrealized gains on equity securities are included in interest income and unrealized losses are included in interest expense. 

Unrealized gains and losses on 

available-for-sale debt securities are included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) on the balance sheet.  

The cost of securities sold is based on the specific identification method.











Table of Contents  

As of June 30, 2019, the significant unobservable inputs used in the Monte Carlo simulation to fair value the MiR contingent consideration include forecasted revenues, revenue volatility, earnings before interest and taxes, and discount rate. Increases or decreases in the inputs would result in a higher or lower fair value measurement. As of June 30, 2019, the maximum amount of contingent consideration that could be paid in connection with the acquisition of MiR is $84.1 million. The remaining 

earn-out  periods end on December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2020.



The carrying value represents the bifurcated debt component only, while the fair value is based on quoted market prices for the convertible note, which includes the equity conversion features.   

The fair values of accounts receivable, net and accounts payable approximate the carrying value due to the short-term nature of these instruments.   

The following table summarizes the composition of 



Table of Contents    


The following table summarizes the composition of 



As of June 30, 2019, the fair market value of investments in 

available-for-sale securities with unrealized losses totaled $38.3 million. Of this value, $22.7 million had unrealized losses of $0.4 million for greater than one year and $15.6 million had unrealized losses of $0.1 million for less than one year. 

As of December 31, 2018, the fair market value of investments with unrealized losses totaled $192.0 million. Of this value, $28.5 million had unrealized losses of $1.6 million greater than one year and $163.5 million had unrealized losses of $1.4 million for less than one year.  

Teradyne reviews its investments to identify and evaluate investments that have an indication of possible impairment. Based on this review, Teradyne determined that the unrealized losses related to these investments at June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018 were temporary.   


Table of Contents  

The contractual maturities of investments in 


Contractual maturities of investments in 

available-for-sale securities held at June 30, 2019 exclude $3.3 million of debt mutual funds as they do not have a contractual maturity date.  

Derivatives      

Teradyne conducts business in a number of foreign countries, with certain transactions denominated in local currencies. The purpose of Teradyne’s foreign currency management is to minimize the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities. Teradyne does not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.  

To minimize the effect of exchange rate fluctuations associated with the remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, Teradyne enters into foreign currency forward contracts. The change in fair value of these derivatives is recorded directly in earnings, and is used to offset the change in value of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies.  

The notional amount of foreign currency forward contracts at June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018 was $143.3 million and $163.1 million, respectively.  

Gains and losses on foreign currency forward contracts and foreign currency remeasurement gains and losses on monetary assets and liabilities are included in other (income) expense, net.   



Table of Contents    



The table does not reflect the corresponding gains and losses from the remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies.   




H. LEASES  

On January 1, 2019, Teradyne adopted ASC 842 using the modified retrospective approach. Under this method of adoption, the comparative information in the consolidated financial statements has not been revised and continues to be reported under the previously applicable lease accounting guidance (ASC 840). Adoption of ASC 842 resulted in recording ROU assets and lease liabilities of approximately $50.1 million and $54.3 million, respectively. The adoption of ASC 842 did not have a material impact on beginning retained earnings, the consolidated statement of operations, cash flows, or earnings per share.   

Teradyne has facility and auto leases, which are accounted for as operating leases. Teradyne’s facility leases are primarily used for administrative functions, research and development, manufacturing, and storage and distribution. Remaining lease terms range from less than one year to ten years.  

Total lease expense for the three months ended June 30, 2019 was $8.9 million and included $2.6 million of variable lease costs and $0.8 million of costs related to short-term leases which are not recorded on the consolidated balance sheets. Total lease expense for the six months ended June 30, 2019 was $17.1 million and included $5.0 million of variable lease costs and $1.5 million of costs related to short-term leases which are not recorded on the consolidated balance sheets.  

At June 30, 2019, the weighted average remaining lease term and weighted average discount rate for operating leases was 4.7 years and 5.2%, respectively.   



As of December 31, 2018, future 


I. DEBT 

Convertible Senior Notes 



, Teradyne completed a private offering of $460.0

 million aggregate principal amount of 1.25

% convertible senior unsecured notes (the “Notes”) due 


 and received net proceeds, after issuance costs, of approximately $450.8


 million of which was used to pay the net cost of the convertible note hedge transactions and $50.1

 million of which was used to repurchase 2.0

 million shares of Teradyne’s common stock under its existing stock repurchase program from purchasers of the Notes in privately negotiated transactions effected through one of the initial purchasers or its affiliates conducted concurrently with the pricing of the Note offering. The Notes will mature on December 15


, unless earlier repurchased or converted. The Notes bear interest from December 12


 at a rate of 1.25

% per year payable semiannually in arrears on June 15 and December 15 of each year

, beginning on 


. The Notes will be convertible at the option of the noteholders at any time 

prior to the close of business on the business day immediately preceding 



 during any calendar quarter beginning after March 31


 (and only during such calendar quarter), if the closing sale price of Teradyne’s common stock, for at least 20

 trading days (whether or not consecutive) during a period of 30

 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter is greater than 130

% of the conversion price on each applicable trading day; (2)

 during the five

 business day period after any five

 consecutive trading day period (the “measurement period”) in which the trading price (as defined in the Indenture) per $1,000

 principal amount of Notes for each trading day of the measurement period was less than 98

% of the product of the closing sale price of the Teradyne’s common stock and the conversion rate on each such trading day; and (3)

 upon the occurrence of specified corporate events. On or after September 15


 until the close of business on the second scheduled trading day immediately preceding the maturity date, holders

may convert their Notes at any time, regardless of the foregoing circumstances. Teradyne may satisfy its conversion obligation by paying or delivering cash, shares of its common stock or a combination of cash and shares of its common stock, at Teradyne’s election. As of June 30


, the conversion price was approximately $31.70

 per share of Teradyne’s common stock. The conversion rate is subject to adjustment under certain circumstances.

Concurrent with the offering of the Notes, Teradyne entered into convertible note hedge transactions (the “Note Hedge Transactions”) with the initial purchasers or their affiliates (the “Option Counterparties”). The Note Hedge Transactions cover, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, the number of shares of the common stock that underlie the Notes, with a strike price equal to the conversion price of the Notes of $31.70. The Note Hedge Transactions cover, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, approximately 14.5 million shares of Teradyne’s common stock.

Separately and concurrent with the pricing of the Notes, Teradyne entered into warrant transactions with the Option Counterparties (the “Warrant Transactions”) in which it sold 

net-share-settled (or, at its election subject to certain conditions, cash-settled) warrants to the Option Counterparties. The Warrant Transactions cover, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, approximately 14.5 million shares of common stock. As of June 30, 2019, the strike price of the warrants was approximately $39.78 per share. The strike price is subject to adjustment under certain circumstances. The Warrant Transactions could have a dilutive effect to Teradyne’s common stock to the extent that the market price per share of Teradyne’s common stock, as measured under the terms of the Warrant Transactions, exceeds the applicable strike price of the warrants.

The Note Hedge Transactions are expected to reduce the potential dilution to Teradyne’s common stock upon any conversion of the Notes. However, the Warrant Transactions could separately have a dilutive effect to the extent that the market value per share of Teradyne’s common stock exceeds the applicable strike price of the warrant. The net cost of the Note Hedge Transactions, after being partially offset by the proceeds from the sale of the warrants, was approximately $33.0

 million.


Teradyne considered the guidance of ASC 


“Derivatives and Hedging—Contracts in Entity’s Own Equity,”

 and concluded that the convertible note hedge is both indexed to Teradyne’s common stock and should be classified in stockholders’ equity in its statements of financial position. The convertible note hedge is considered indexed to Teradyne’s common stock as the terms of the Note Hedge Transactions do not contain an exercise contingency and the settlement amount equals the difference between the fair value of a fixed number of Teradyne’s shares and a fixed strike price. Because the only variable that can affect the settlement amount is Teradyne’s stock price, which is an input to the fair value of a 

fixed-for-fixed

 option contract, the convertible note hedge is considered indexed to Teradyne’s common stock.

Teradyne assessed whether the convertible note hedge should be classified as equity under ASC 


 In the Note Hedge Transactions contract the settlement terms permit net cash settlement or net share settlement, at the option of Teradyne. Therefore, the criteria as set forth in ASC 



 the convertible note hedge does not require Teradyne to issue shares; (2)

 there is no requirement to net cash settle the convertible note hedge for failure to make timely filings with the SEC; (3)

 in the case of termination, the convertible note hedge is settled in the same 


Table of Contents 

consideration as the holders of the underlying stock; (4) the counterparty does not have rights that rank higher than those of a shareholder of the stock underlying the convertible note hedge; and (5) there is no requirement to post collateral. Based on its analysis of those criteria, Teradyne concluded that the convertible note hedge should be recorded in equity and no further adjustment should be made in future periods to adjust the value of the convertible note hedge. 

Teradyne analyzed the Warrant Transactions under ASC 815-40, 

“Derivatives and Hedging—Contracts in Entity’s Own Equity,” and other relevant literature, and determined that it met the criteria for classification as an equity transaction and is considered indexed to Teradyne’s common stock. As a result, Teradyne recorded the proceeds from the warrants as an increase to additional paid-in capital. Teradyne does not recognize subsequent changes in fair value of the warrants in its financial statements. 

The provisions of ASC 470-20, “

Debt with Conversion and Other Options,

” are applicable to the Notes. ASC 470-20 requires Teradyne to separately account for the liability (debt) and equity (conversion feature) components of the Notes in a manner that reflects Teradyne’s nonconvertible debt borrowing rate at the date of issuance when interest cost is recognized in subsequent periods. Teradyne allocated $100.8 million of the $460.0 million principal amount of the Notes to the equity component, which represents a discount to the debt and will be amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method through December 2023. Accordingly, Teradyne’s effective annual interest rate on the Notes will be approximately 5.0%. The Notes are classified as long-term 

debt in the balance sheet based on their 


 maturity date. Debt issuance costs of approximately $7.2

 million are being amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over the seven year

 term of the Notes. As of June 30, 2019, debt issuance costs were approximately $4.8

 million.  



As of June 30, 2019, the remaining unamortized discount was $72.8 million, which will be amortized over 4.5 years using the effective interest rate method. The carrying amount of the equity component was $100.8 million. As of June 30, 2019, the 

if-converted  value of the Notes was $695.2 million.  

Revolving Credit Facility  

On June 27, 2019

, Teradyne terminated its credit agreement

, which Teradyne entered into with Barclays Bank PLC, on April 27, 2015. The terminated credit agreement

 provided for a five-year, senior secured revolving credit facility of up to 


million.


Table of Contents    

J. PREPAYMENTS  

Prepayments consist of the following 


K. DEFERRED REVENUE AND CUSTOMER ADVANCES    


L. PRODUCT WARRANTY  

Teradyne generally provides a 

one-year



Table of Contents 

When Teradyne receives revenue for extended warranties, beyond one year, it is deferred and recognized on a straight-line basis over the contract period. Related costs are expensed as incurred. The balance below is included in short and long-term deferred revenue and customer advances on the balance sheet.  


M. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION  

Under Teradyne’s stock compensation plans, Teradyne grants stock options, restricted stock units and performance-based restricted stock units, and employees are eligible to purchase Teradyne’s common stock through its Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”). 

Time-based restricted stock unit awards granted to employees vest in equal annual installments over four years

. Restricted stock unit awards granted to 

non-employee

 directors vest after a one year


% of the award vesting on the earlier of (a) the first anniversary of the grant date or (b) the date of the following year’s Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Teradyne expenses the cost of the restricted stock unit awards subject to time-based vesting, which is determined to be the fair market value of the shares at the date of grant, ratably over the period during which the restrictions lapse.

Performance-based restricted stock units (“PRSUs”) granted to Teradyne’s executive officers have a performance metric based on relative total shareholder return (“TSR”). Teradyne’s three-year

 TSR performance is measured against the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) Composite Index. The final number of TSR PRSUs that vest will vary based upon the level of performance achieved from 200


% of the target shares capped at four times the grant date value. The TSR PRSUs will vest upon the three-year anniversary of the grant date. The TSR PRSUs are valued using a Monte Carlo simulation model. The number of units expected to be earned, based upon the achievement of the TSR market condition, is factored into the grant date Monte Carlo valuation. Compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the three-year service period or the period from the grant to the date described in the retirement provisions below. Compensation expense for employees meeting the retirement provisions prior to the grant date will be recognized in full on the date of the grant. Compensation expense is recognized regardless of the eventual number of units that are earned based upon the market condition, provided the executive officer remains an employee at the end of the three-year period. Compensation expense is reversed if at any time during the three-year service period the executive officer is no longer an employee, subject to the retirement and termination eligibility provisions noted below. 

During the six months ended June 30, 2019 and July 1, 2018, Teradyne granted PRSUs to its executive officers with a performance metric based on three-year cumulative 

non-GAAP profit before interest and tax (“PBIT”) as a percent of Teradyne’s revenue. 

Non-GAAP PBIT is a financial measure equal to GAAP income from operations less restructuring and other, net; amortization of acquired intangible assets; acquisition and divestiture related charges or credits; pension actuarial gains and losses; 

non-cash convertible debt interest expense; and other 

non-recurring gains and charges. The final number of PBIT PRSUs that vest will vary based upon the level of performance achieved from 200% to 0% of the target shares. The PBIT PRSUs will vest upon the three-year anniversary of the grant date. Compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the three year service period or the period from the grant date to the date described in the retirement provisions below. Compensation expense for employees meeting the retirement provisions prior to the grant date  


Table of Contents  

will be recognized in full on the date of grant. Compensation expense is recognized based on the number of units that are earned based upon the three-year Teradyne PBIT as a percent of Teradyne’s revenue, provided the executive officer remains an employee at the end of the three-year period subject to the retirement and termination eligibility provisions noted below. 

If a PRSU recipient’s employment ends prior to the determination of the performance percentage due to (1) permanent disability or death or (2) retirement or termination other than for cause, after attaining both at least age sixty and at least ten years of service, then all or a portion of the recipient’s PRSUs (based on the actual performance percentage achieved on the determination date) will vest on the date the performance percentage is determined. Except as set forth in the preceding sentence, no PRSUs will vest if the executive officer is no longer an employee at the end of the three-year period. 



Expected volatility was based on the historical volatility of Teradyne’s stock and the NYSE Composite Index for each of the 2019 and 2018 grants over the most recent three-year period. The risk-free interest rate was determined using the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of each of the grants. Dividend yield was based upon an estimated annual dividend amount of $0.36 per share for 2019 grants and 2018 grants, divided by Teradyne’s stock price on the grant date of $37.95 for 2019 grants and 


 for the 2018 grant. 

During the six months ended June 30, 2019 and July 1, 2018, Teradyne granted 0.1 million and 0.1 million, respectively, of PBIT PRSUs with a grant date fair value of $36.88 and $46.62, respectively.  

During the six months ended June 


, 


, Teradyne granted 0.7 million of service-based restricted stock unit awards to employees at a weighted average grant date fair value of $36.10

, 


 million of service-based restricted stock unit awards to non-employee directors at a weighted average grant date fair value of $


and 


million of service-based stock options to executive officers at a weighted average grant date fair value of 

$


. 

During the six months ended July 1, 2018, Teradyne granted 0.6 million of service-based restricted stock unit awards to employees at a weighted average grant date fair value of $46.38

, 0.1 million of service-based restricted stock unit awards to 

non-employee

 directors at a weighted average grant date fair value of $35.81, 


 million of service-based stock options to executive officers at a weighted average grant date fair value of $12.17

.  

Restricted stock unit awards granted to employees vest in equal annual installments over four years. Stock options to purchase Teradyne’s common stock at 100% of the fair market value on the grant date vest in equal annual installments over four years from the grant date and have a maximum term of seven years.  


Table of Contents     


Teradyne determined the stock options’ expected life based upon historical exercise data for executive officers, the age of the executive officers and the terms of the stock option grant. Volatility was determined using historical volatility for a period equal to the expected life. The risk-free interest rate was determined using the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant. Dividend yield was based upon an estimated annual dividend amount of $0.36 per share divided by Teradyne’s stock price on the grant date of $37.95 for 2019 grants 

and $47.70 for the 2018 grant.   

N. ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)   



Table of Contents  


 (a) 

In the six months ended July 1, 2018, Teradyne early adopted the ASU 



 (b) 

In the six months ended July 1, 2018, Teradyne adopted the ASU 




 (a) 



Table of Contents 

O. GOODWILL AND ACQUIRED INTANGIBLE ASSETS  

Goodwill  

Teradyne performs its annual goodwill impairment test as required under the provisions of ASC 


“Intangibles—Goodwill and Other”

 on December 31 of each fiscal year unless interim indicators of impairment exist. Goodwill is considered impaired when the net book value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value.  


Intangible Assets  

Teradyne reviews long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be fully recoverable or that the useful lives of these assets are no longer appropriate.  



Table of Contents   



Aggregate intangible asset amortization expense was $10.1 million and $20.7 million, respectively, for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and $9.8 million and $17.5 million, respectively, for the three and six months ended July 1, 2018.    


P. NET INCOME PER COMMON SHARE   



Table of Contents 



The computation of diluted net income per common share for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 excludes the effect of the potential vesting of 0.2 million and 0.4 million of stock options, respectively because the effect would have been anti-dilutive.  

The computation of diluted net income per common share for the three and six months ended July 1, 2018 excludes the effect of the potential vesting of 0.6 million and 0.5 million shares, respectively of restricted stock units because the effect would have been anti-dilutive.   

Q. RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER  

During the three months ended June 30, 2019, Teradyne recorded an 


million credit for the decrease in the fair value of the MiR contingent consideration liability, partially offset by 


million recorded for severance charges primarily in Semiconductor Test and 


million of acquisition related compensation and expenses. 

During the three months ended July 1, 2018, Teradyne recorded a


million charge for acquisition related expenses, and 


million for employee severance charges, primarily in Semiconductor Test, partially offset by a 


million credit for the decrease in the fair value of the Universal Robots. 

During the six months ended June 30, 2019, Teradyne recorded an 


million credit for the decrease in the fair value of the MiR contingent consideration liability, partially offset by 


million of acquisition related compensation and expenses and 


million recorded for severance charges primarily in Semiconductor Test. 

During the six months ended July 1, 2018, Teradyne recorded $6.3 million for severance charges, primarily in Semiconductor Test and Industrial Automation, $3.3 million for acquisition related expenses, partially offset by an $8.5 million credit for the decrease in the fair value of the Universal Robots contingent consideration liability.  

R. RETIREMENT PLANS  


“Compensation—Retirement Benefits” requires an employer with a defined benefit plan or other postretirement benefit plan to recognize an asset or a liability on its balance sheet for the overfunded or underfunded status of the plan. The pension asset or liability represents a difference between the fair value of the pension plan’s assets and the projected benefit obligation. 

Defined Benefit Pension Plans  

Teradyne has defined benefit pension plans covering a portion of domestic employees and employees of certain 

non-U.S.  subsidiaries. Benefits under these plans are based on employees’ years of service and compensation. Teradyne’s funding policy is to make contributions to these plans in accordance with local laws and to the extent that such contributions are tax deductible. The assets of the U.S. qualified pension plan consist primarily of fixed income and equity securities. In addition, Teradyne has unfunded qualified foreign plans as well as an unfunded supplemental executive defined benefit plan in the United States to provide retirement benefits in excess of levels allowed by the Employment Retirement Income Security Act (“ERISA”) and the Internal Revenue Code (“IRC”). 

In the six months ended June 30, 2019, Teradyne contributed $1.3 million to the U.S. supplemental executive defined benefit pension plan and $0.4 million to certain qualified pension plans for 

non-U.S. subsidiaries.  


Table of Contents 


Postretirement Benefit Plan  

In addition to receiving pension benefits, Teradyne employees in the United States who meet early retirement eligibility requirements as of their termination dates may participate in Teradyne’s Welfare Plan, which includes medical and dental benefits up to age 65

. Death benefits provide a fixed sum to retirees’ survivors and are available to all retirees. Substantially all of Teradyne’s current U.S. employees could become eligible for these benefits, and the existing benefit obligation relates primarily to those employees.  



Table of Contents 

S. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES  

Purchase Commitments  

As of June 30, 2019, Teradyne had entered into purchase commitments for certain components and materials. The purchase commitments covered by the agreements aggregate to approximately $306.9 million, of which $300.7 million is for less than one year.  

Legal Claims  

Teradyne is subject to various legal proceedings and claims which have arisen in the ordinary course of business. In the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on Teradyne’s results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.   

T. INCOME TAXES   


On a quarterly basis, Teradyne evaluates the realizability of the deferred tax assets by jurisdiction and assesses the need for a valuation allowance. As of June 30, 2019, Teradyne believes that it will ultimately realize the deferred tax assets recorded on the condensed consolidated balance sheet. However, should Teradyne believe that it is 

more-likely-than-not that the deferred tax assets would not be realized, the tax provision would increase in the period in which Teradyne determined that the realizability was not likely. Teradyne considers the probability of future taxable income and historical profitability, among other factors, in assessing the realizability of the deferred tax assets. 

As of June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, Teradyne had $13.4 million and $43.4 million, respectively, of reserves for uncertain tax positions. The $30.0 million net decrease in reserves for uncertain tax positions is primarily composed of reductions in uncertain tax positions amounting to $22.4 million related to transfer pricing and $7.3 million associated with U.S. research and development tax credits. These reductions resulted from the conclusion of the U.S. Federal income tax audit for the year ended December 31, 2015.  

As of June 30, 2019, Teradyne does not anticipate a material change in the balance of unrecognized tax benefits during the next twelve months. 

On July 27, 2015, in Altera Corp. v. Commissioner (“Altera”), the U.S. Tax Court issued an opinion invalidating the regulations relating to the treatment of stock-based compensation expense in an intercompany  


Table of Contents   

cost-sharing arrangement. A final decision was issued by the Tax Court in December 2015. The IRS appealed the decision in June 2016. On July 24, 2018, the Ninth Circuit Federal Court issued a decision that was subsequently withdrawn and a reconstituted panel has conferred on the appeal. On June 7, 2019, the Ninth Circuit Federal Court upheld the cost-sharing regulations. Due to the uncertainty surrounding the status of the current regulations, questions related to the scope of potential benefits or obligations, the outcome of the appeals process, and questions regarding jurisdiction, Teradyne has not established any income tax reserves as of June 30, 2019 related to Altera. Teradyne estimates that including stock-based compensation in Teradyne’s intercompany cost-sharing arrangement could result in a potential tax reserve of $5 million to $11 million. Teradyne will continue to monitor ongoing developments and potential impacts to our consolidated financial statements. 

Teradyne recognizes interest and penalties related to income tax matters in income tax expense. As of June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, $0.4 million and $0.3 million, respectively, of interest and penalties were accrued for uncertain tax positions. For the six months ended June 30, 2019 and July 1, 2018, expense of $0.1 million and $0.1 million, respectively, was recorded for interest and penalties related to income tax items.  

Teradyne qualifies for a tax holiday in Singapore by fulfilling the requirements of an agreement with the Singapore Economic Development Board under which certain headcount and spending requirements must be met. The tax savings due to the tax holiday for the six months ended June 30, 2019 was $7.0 million, or $0.04 per diluted share. The tax savings due to the tax holiday for the six months ended July 1, 2018 was $4.8 million, or $0.02 per diluted share. The tax holiday is scheduled to expire on December 31, 2020.    

U. SEGMENT INFORMATION  




Table of Contents   





Included in the income (loss) before income taxes for each of the segments are charges and credits related to restructuring and other and inventory charges.   


Total business assets are directly attributable to each business. Corporate assets consist of cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and certain other assets.   




Table of Contents 




V. SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY  

Stock Repurchase Program  

In January 2018, Teradyne’s Board of Directors cancelled the December 2016 stock repurchase program and authorized a new stock repurchase program for up to $1.5 billion of common stock. Teradyne intends to repurchase $500 million in 2019.  

During the six months ended June 30, 2019, Teradyne repurchased 6.5 million shares of common stock for $247.2 million at an average price of $38.20 per share. The cumulative repurchases under the $1.5 billion stock repurchase program as of June 30, 2019 totaled 28.1 million shares of common stock for $1.1 billion at an average price per share of $38.09.  

During the six months ended July 1, 2018, Teradyne repurchased 8.8 million shares of common stock for $360.8 million at an average price of $40.82 per share.  

The total price includes commissions and is recorded as a reduction to retained earnings.  

Dividend  

Holders of Teradyne’s common stock are entitled to receive dividends when they are declared by Teradyne’s Board of Directors.  


Table of Contents 

In January 2019 and May 2019, Teradyne’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per share. Dividend payments for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 were $15.4 million and $31.0 million, respectively. 

In January 2018 and May 2018, Teradyne’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per share. Dividend payments for the three and six months ended July 1, 2018 were $17.1 million and $34.7 million, respectively. 

While Teradyne declared a quarterly cash dividend and authorized a share repurchase program, it may reduce or eliminate the cash dividend or share repurchase program in the future. Future cash dividends and stock repurchases are subject to the discretion of Teradyne’s Board of Directors, which will consider, among other things, Teradyne’s earnings, capital requirements and financial condition.  

W. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS  

Gregory Beecher retired as Vice President and Senior Advisor of Teradyne effective 

July 17, 2019 (the “Retirement Date”). As previously announced, Sanjay Mehta succeeded Mr. Beecher as Teradyne’s Chief Financial Officer effective April 25, 2019. 

In connection with the retirement, Teradyne entered into an agreement on 


 with Mr. Beecher (the “Retirement Agreement”). In the Retirement Agreement, Mr. Beecher agreed to be bound by non-competition and non-solicitation restrictions through January 31, 2023 (the “Non-Competition Period”). The Retirement Agreement also includes additional, standard terms and conditions relating to Mr. Beecher’s separation from Teradyne. 

Under the Retirement Agreement, Mr. Beecher’s unvested time-based restricted stock units and stock options granted prior to 2019 will continue to vest in accordance with their terms; unvested time-based restricted stock units and stock options granted in 2019 prior to the Retirement Date will continue to vest during the Non-Competition Period in a pro-rated amount based on the number of days that Mr. Beecher was employed during 2019; 

unvested, performance-based restricted stock units awarded prior to 2019 will continue to vest in accordance with their terms; unvested, performance-based restricted stock units awarded in 2019 will vest on the date the amount of shares underlying the performance-based restricted stock units are determined in a pro-rated amount of shares based on the number of days that Mr. Beecher was employed during the 365 calendar day period following the grant date; vested options or options that vest during the Non-Competition Period may be exercised for the remainder of the applicable option term. 

Teradyne will record a stock based compensation expense of approximately $2.5 million in the third quarter of 2019 related to the Retirement Agreement.  

 Item 2:  

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   

Statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 

10-Q which are not historical facts, so called “forward-looking statements,” are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, including those detailed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. See also Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report on Form 

10-Q and Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 

10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements which reflect management’s analysis only as of the date hereof. We assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect actual results or changes in factors or assumptions affecting forward-looking statements, except as may be required by law. 

Overview  

We are a leading global supplier of automation equipment for test and industrial applications. We design, develop, manufacture and sell automatic test systems used to test semiconductors, wireless products, data storage    


Table of Contents 


   • 

semiconductor test (“Semiconductor Test”) systems;   

   • 

industrial automation (“Industrial Automation”) products;   

   • 


   • 

wireless test (“Wireless Test”) systems.   

We have a customer base which includes integrated device manufacturers (“IDMs”), outsourced semiconductor assembly and test providers (“OSATs”), original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”), wafer foundries, fabless companies that design, but contract with others for the manufacture of integrated circuits (“ICs”), developers of wireless devices and consumer electronics, manufacturers of circuit boards, automotive suppliers, wireless product manufacturers, storage device manufacturers, aerospace and military contractors, and distributors that sell collaborative robots, autonomous mobile robots and wireless test systems.  

The market for our test products is concentrated with a limited number of significant customers accounting for a substantial portion of the purchases of test equipment. Two customers drive significant demand for our products both through direct sales and sales to the customer’s supply partners. We expect that sales of our test products will continue to be concentrated with a limited number of significant customers for the foreseeable future.  

The sales of our products and services are dependent, to a large degree, on customers who are subject to cyclical trends in the demand for their products. These cyclical periods have had, and will continue to have, a significant effect on our business because our customers often delay or accelerate purchases in reaction to changes in their businesses and to demand fluctuations in the semiconductor, electronics and industrial automation industries. Historically, these demand fluctuations have resulted in significant variations in our results of operations. In the first half of 2019, the revenue growth of our industrial automation business was below our forecast. We expect 2019 full year revenue growth of our industrial automation business to be under the low end of our long term range of 30% to 40%.  

On February 26, 2018, we acquired Energid Technologies Corporation (“Energid”) for a total purchase price of approximately $27.6 million. Energid’s technology enables and simplifies the programming of complex robotic motions used in a wide variety of end markets, ranging from heavy industry to healthcare, utilizing both traditional robots and collaborative robots.  

On April 25, 2018, we acquired Mobile Industrial Robots ApS (“MiR”), a Danish limited liability company. MiR is the leading maker of collaborative autonomous mobile robots for industrial applications. The total purchase price was approximately $197.8 million, which included cash paid of approximately $145.2 million and $52.6 million in fair value of contingent consideration payable upon achievement of certain thresholds and targets for revenue and earnings before interest and taxes through 2020. Contingent consideration for 2018 was $30.8 million and was paid in March 2019. The maximum payment for the remaining MiR contingent consideration that could be paid is $84.1 million.  

MiR and Energid are included in our Industrial Automation segment.  


Table of Contents 

On January 30, 2019, we acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Lemsys SA (“Lemsys”) for a total purchase price of approximately $9.1 million. Lemsys strengthens our position in the electrification trends of vehicles, solar, wind, and industrial applications. Lemsys is included in our Semiconductor Test segment.  

On June 3, 2019, we invested $15 million in RealWear, Inc. (“RealWear”). RealWear, a private company, develops and sells advanced wearable technology including industrial, hands-free, head-mounted augmented reality devices that make the workplace safer and more productive. Our investment in RealWear aligns with our strategy of bringing the power of advanced automation to companies of all sizes to improve the productivity of their employees and the quality of their products and services.  

We believe our recent acquisitions and investments have enhanced our opportunities for growth. We intend to continue to invest in our business, grow market share in our markets and expand further our addressable markets while tightly managing our costs.  

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  

We have identified the policies which are critical to understanding our business and our results of operations. There have been no significant changes during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 to the items disclosed as our critical accounting policies and estimates in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 

10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, except as noted below. 

Investment in Other Company  


Leases  

In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 


“Leases (Topic 842)” (“Topic 842”), which requires a lessee to record a 

right-of-use  (“ROU”) asset and a lease liability on the balance sheet for operating leases with terms longer than twelve months. We adopted this standard and the related amendments (collectively “ASC 842”) on January 1, 2019 and utilized the modified retrospective approach provided by ASU 



Under ASC 842, a contract is or contains a lease when we have the right to control the use of an identified asset. We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception of the contract, which is the date on which the terms of the contract are agreed to and the agreement creates enforceable rights and obligations. The commencement date of the lease is the date that the lessor makes an underlying asset available for use. As of June 30, 2019, we do not have material leases that have not yet commenced.   


Table of Contents 

We determine if the lease is operating or finance at the lease commencement date based upon the terms of the lease and the nature of the asset. The lease term used to calculate the lease liability includes options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that the option will be exercised.  

For leases commencing after January 1, 2019, the lease liability is measured at the present value of future lease payments, discounted using the discount rate for the lease at the commencement date. As we are typically unable to determine the implicit rate, we use an incremental borrowing rate based on the lease term and economic environment at commencement date. We initially measure payments based on an index by using the applicable rate at lease commencement. Variable payments that do not depend on an index are not included in the lease liability and are recognized as they are incurred. The ROU asset is initially measured as the amount of lease liability, adjusted for any initial lease costs, prepaid lease payments, and reduced by any lease incentives.  

Our contracts often include 

non-lease components such as common area maintenance. We elected the practical expedient to account for the lease and 

non-lease components as a single lease component. For leases with a term of one year or less we elected not to record the lease asset or liability. The lease payments are recognized in the consolidated statement of earnings on a straight-line basis over the lease term. We include lease costs within cost of revenues and operating expenses. 

Preparation of Financial Statements and Use of Estimates  

The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates.   


Table of Contents 

SELECTED RELATIONSHIPS WITHIN THE CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED  


Results of Operations  

Second Quarter 2019 Compared to Second Quarter 2018  

Revenues  



Table of Contents 

The increase in Semiconductor Test revenues of $14.8 million, or 4.1%, was driven primarily by an increase in semiconductor test sales for 5G infrastructure and higher service revenues, partially offset by lower microcontroller, power linear and mobile image sensor test sales.  




Revenues attributable to a country are based on location of customer site.   

Gross Profit  


Gross profit as a percent of revenue decreased by 0.9 points, primarily due to higher excess and obsolescence charges in Semiconductor Test and unfavorable product mix.  

We assess the carrying value of our inventory on a quarterly basis by estimating future demand and comparing that demand against 

on-hand and 

on-order inventory positions. Forecasted revenue information is obtained from sales and marketing groups and incorporates factors such as backlog and future revenue demand. This quarterly process identifies obsolete and excess inventory. Obsolete inventory, which represents items for which there is no demand, is fully reserved. Excess inventory, which represents inventory items that are not expected to be consumed during the next twelve quarters for our Semiconductor Test, System Test and Industrial Automation segments and the next four quarters for our Wireless Test segment, is written-down to estimated net realizable value.  


Table of Contents 

During the three months ended June 30, 2019, we recorded an inventory provision of $3.4 million included in cost of revenues primarily due to downward revisions to previously forecasted demand levels, of which $2.3 million was related to Semiconductor Test, $0.8 million was related to Wireless Test and $0.3 million was related to System Test.  

During the three months ended July 1, 2018, we recorded an inventory provision of $2.7 million included in cost of revenues primarily due to downward revisions to previously forecasted demand levels, of which $1.6 million was related to Semiconductor Test, $0.6 million was related to Wireless Test, $0.3 million was related to System Test, and $0.2 million was related to Industrial Automation.  

During the three months ended June 30, 2019 and July 1, 2018, we scrapped $2.6 million and $1.1 million of inventory, respectively. During the three months ended June 30, 2019 and July 1, 2018, we sold $0.4 million and $1.9 million of previously written-down or 

written-off inventory, respectively. As of June 30, 2019, we had inventory related reserves for inventory, which had been written-down or 

written-off totaling $102.6 million. We have no 

pre-determined timeline to scrap the remaining inventory. 

Selling and Administrative  


The increase of $9.4 million in selling and administrative expenses was due primarily to higher spending in Industrial Automation from higher sales and marketing spending in Universal Robots and MiR. MiR was acquired on April 25, 2018.  

Engineering and Development  


The increase of $6.1 million in engineering and development expenses was primarily due to higher spending in Industrial Automation and Wireless Test.  

Acquired Intangible Assets Amortization  



Table of Contents 

Acquired intangible assets amortization expense increased primarily due to Industrial Automation acquisitions of MiR and Energid in 2018 and the Semiconductor Test acquisition of Lemsys in 2019.  

Restructuring and Other  

During the three months ended June 30, 2019, we recorded an $11.7 million credit for the decrease in the fair value of the MiR contingent consideration liability, partially offset by $0.8 million recorded for severance charges primarily in Semiconductor Test and $0.5 million of acquisition related compensation and expenses.  

During the three months ended July 1, 2018, we recorded $2.5 million of acquisition related expenses, and $2.4 million for employee severance charges, primarily in Semiconductor Test, partially offset by a $3.5 million credit for the decrease in the fair value of Universal Robots contingent consideration.  


Other (income) expense, net increased by $2.2 million due primarily to higher foreign exchange losses and higher pension costs.  




The increase in income before income taxes in System Test was primarily due to higher sales in Storage Test of 3.5” hard disk drive testers. The increase in income before income taxes in Wireless Test was primarily due to higher demand for millimeter wave and cellular test products. The decrease in income before income taxes in Industrial Automation was primarily due to increased intangible assets amortization expense from the acquisition of MiR on April 25 2018.   


Table of Contents 

Income Taxes  

The effective tax rate for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and July 1, 2018 was 25.8% and 15.8%, respectively. The increase in the effective tax rate from the three months ended July 1, 2018 to the three months ended June 30, 2019 resulted from an increase in net discrete tax expense and an increase in the net unfavorable impact of the international provisions of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. These increases were partially offset by a projected shift in the geographic distribution of income, which reduces the income subject to taxation in higher tax rate jurisdictions relative to lower tax rate jurisdictions, an increase in benefit related to U.S. research and development tax credits and a decrease in expense related to the uncertain tax positions for transfer pricing.  

Six Months 2019 Compared to Six Months 2018  

Revenues  


The decrease in Semiconductor Test revenues of $17.6 million, or 2.4%, was driven primarily by a decrease in memory test sales, partially offset by higher sales related to 5G infrastructure, higher image sensor test sales and higher service revenues. The increase in Industrial Automation revenues of $30.0 million, or 27.1%, was due to higher demand for collaborative robotic arms and the acquisition of MiR, which was acquired on April 25, 2018. The increase in System Test revenues of $18.9 million, or 16.8%, was primarily due to higher sales in Storage Test of 3.5” hard disk drive testers and higher sales in Production Board Test due to 5G. The increase in Wireless Test revenues of $12.6 million, or 21.8%, was primarily due to higher demand for millimeter wave and cellular test products driven by new wireless standards and 5G partially offset by lower sales in connectivity test products.   


Table of Contents 



Revenues attributable to a country are based on location of customer site.   

Gross Profit  


Gross profit as a percent of revenue increased by 0.9 points, primarily due to favorable product mix in Semiconductor Test and System Test.  

We assess the carrying value of our inventory on a quarterly basis by estimating future demand and comparing that demand against 

on-hand and 

on-order inventory positions. Forecasted revenue information is obtained from sales and marketing groups and incorporates factors such as backlog and future revenue demand. This quarterly process identifies obsolete and excess inventory. Obsolete inventory, which represents items for which there is no demand, is fully reserved. Excess inventory, which represents inventory items that are not expected to be consumed during the next twelve quarters for our Semiconductor Test, System Test and Industrial Automation segments and the next four quarters for our Wireless Test segment, is written-down to estimated net realizable value. 

During the six months ended June 30, 2019, we recorded an inventory provision of $5.8 million included in cost of revenues primarily due to downward revisions to previously forecasted demand levels, of which $3.5 million was related to Semiconductor Test, $1.1 million was related to Wireless Test, $0.8 million was related to System Test, and $0.4 million was related to Industrial Automation.  

During the six months ended July 1, 2018, we recorded an inventory provision of $6.2 million included in cost of revenues primarily due to downward revisions to previously forecasted demand levels, of which $3.8 million was related to Semiconductor Test, $1.5 million was related to Wireless Test, $0.6 million was related to System Test, and $0.3 million was related to Industrial Automation.   


Table of Contents 

During the six months ended June 30, 2019 and July 1, 2018, we scrapped $3.0 million and $1.5 million of inventory, respectively. During the six months ended June 30, 2019 and July 1, 2018, we sold $1.1 million and $4.2 million of previously written-down or 

written-off inventory, respectively. As of June 30, 2019, we had inventory related reserves for inventory, which had been written-down or 

written-off totaling $102.6 million. We have no 

pre-determined timeline to scrap the remaining inventory. 

Selling and Administrative  


The increase of $20.9 million in selling and administrative expenses was due primarily to higher spending in Industrial Automation from higher sales and marketing spending in Universal Robots and MiR, which was acquired on April 25, 2018, and higher variable compensation.  

Engineering and Development  


The increase of $8.4 million in engineering and development expenses was primarily due to higher spending in Industrial Automation and Wireless Test and higher variable compensation.  

Acquired Intangible Assets Amortization  


Acquired intangible assets amortization expense increased primarily due to the Industrial Automation acquisitions of MiR and Energid in 2018 and the Semiconductor Test acquisition of Lemsys in 2019.  

Restructuring and Other  

During the six months ended June 30, 2019, we recorded an $8.7 million credit for the decrease in the fair value of the MiR contingent consideration liability, partially offset by $1.8 million of acquisition related compensation and expenses and $1.6 million recorded for severance charges primarily in Semiconductor Test.   


Table of Contents 

During the six months ended July 1, 2018, we recorded $6.3 million for severance charges, primarily in Semiconductor Test and Industrial Automation, and $3.3 million for acquisition related expenses, partially offset by an $8.5 million credit for the decrease in the fair value of the Universal Robots contingent consideration liability.  


Interest income increased by $2.1 million due primarily to unrealized gains on equity marketable securities in 2019. Interest expense decreased by $1.0 million due primarily to lower realized losses on sales of marketable securities in 2019. Other (income) expense, net increased by $2.9 million due primarily to higher pension costs and higher foreign exchange losses.  




The decrease in income before income taxes in Semiconductor Test was driven primarily by a decrease in memory test sales, partially offset by higher sales related to 5G infrastructure, higher image sensor test sales and higher service revenues. The increase in income before income taxes in System Test was primarily due to higher sales in Storage Test of 3.5” hard disk drive testers and higher sales in Production Board Test for 5G. The increase in income before income taxes in Wireless Test was primarily due to higher demand for millimeter wave and cellular test products driven by new wireless standards and 5G, partially offset by lower connectivity test products sales. The decrease in income before income taxes in Industrial Automation was primarily due to increased intangible assets amortization expense from the acquisitions of MiR and Energid in 2018.  

Income Taxes  

The effective tax rate for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and July 1, 2018 was 8.3% and 12.9%, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate from the six months ended July 1, 2018 to the six months  


Table of Contents 

ended June 30, 2019 resulted from an increase in net discrete tax benefit, an increase in benefit related to U.S. research and development tax credits, a decrease in expense related to the uncertain tax positions for transfer pricing and a projected shift in the geographic distribution of income, which reduces the income subject to taxation in higher tax rate jurisdictions relative to lower tax rate jurisdictions. These reductions were partially offset by an increase in the net unfavorable impact of the international provisions of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017.  

Contractual Obligations  



Represents the transition tax liability associated with our accumulated foreign earnings as a result of the enactment of the Tax Reform Act on December 22, 2017.   


Included in other long-term liabilities are liabilities for customer advances, extended warranty, uncertain tax positions, deferred tax liabilities and other obligations. For certain long-term obligations, we are unable to provide a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of future payments relating to these obligations and therefore we included these amounts in the column marked “Other.”   

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

Our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances decreased by $210.2 million in the six months ended June 30, 2019 to $994.3 million.  

Operating activities during the six months ended June 30, 2019 provided cash of $163.3 million. Changes in operating assets and liabilities used cash of $115.0 million due to a $99.0 million increase in operating assets and a $16.0 million decrease in operating liabilities.  

The increase in operating assets was primarily due to a $79.5 million increase in accounts receivable due to increased sales, a $17.1 million increase in prepayments and other assets, and a $2.4 million increase in inventories.  

The decrease in operating liabilities was due to a $26.8 million decrease in accrued employee compensation due primarily to first quarter payments related to variable compensation, a $15.0 million decrease in income taxes, and $2.4 million of retirement plan contributions, partially offset by a $15.8 million increase in deferred revenue and customer advance payments, a $10.3 million increase in other accrued liabilities, and a $2.0 million increase in accounts payable.  


Table of Contents 

Investing activities during the six months ended June 30, 2019 used cash of $289.2 million, due to $484.2 million used for purchases of marketable securities, $59.0 million used for purchases of property, plant and equipment, $15 million used for an investment in RealWear, and $7.0 million, net of cash acquired, used for the acquisition of Lemsys, partially offset by $233.2 million and $42.5 million in proceeds from maturities and sales of marketable securities, respectively, and proceeds from life insurance of $0.3 million related to the cash surrender value from the cancellation of a Teradyne owned life insurance policy.  

Financing activities during the six months ended June 30, 2019 used cash of $305.2 million, due to $247.2 million used for the repurchase of 6.5 million shares of common stock at an average price of $38.20 per share, $31.0 million used for dividend payments, $27.6 million used for payments related to MiR and Universal Robots acquisition contingent consideration, and $14.4 million used for payments related to net settlements of employee stock compensation awards, partially offset by $15.1 million from the issuance of common stock under employee stock purchase and stock option plans.  

Operating activities during the six months ended July 1, 2018 provided cash of $49.9 million. Changes in operating assets and liabilities used cash of $225.2 million due to a $199.0 million increase in operating assets and a $26.1 million decrease in operating liabilities.  

The increase in operating assets was primarily due to a $179.4 million increase in accounts receivable due to an increase in shipments during the last month of the quarter and the impact of the new revenue recognition standard and a $21.3 million increase in inventories, partially offset by a $1.6 million decrease in prepayments and other assets.  

The decrease in operating liabilities was due to a $27.3 million decrease in accrued employee compensation due primarily to first quarter payments related to variable compensation, a $26.3 million decrease in income taxes, and $2.2 million of retirement plan contributions, partially offset by a $14.7 million increase in accounts payable, a $10.5 million increase in deferred revenue and customer advance payments, and a $4.5 million increase in other accrued liabilities.  

Investing activities during the six months ended July 1, 2018 provided cash of $418.5 million, due to $829.1 million and $469.9 million in proceeds from sales and maturities of marketable securities, respectively, partially offset by $647.1 million used for purchases of marketable securities, $170.6 million used for the acquisitions of MiR and Energid, and $62.7 million used for purchases of property, plant and equipment.  

Financing activities during the six months ended July 1, 2018 used cash of $418.1 million, due to $360.8 million used for the repurchase of 8.8 million shares of common stock at an average price of $40.82 per share, $34.7 million used for dividend payments, $19.8 million used for payment related to net settlement of employee stock compensation awards, and $13.6 million used for a payment related to Universal Robots acquisition contingent consideration, partially offset by $10.7 million from the issuance of common stock under employee stock purchase and stock option plans.  

In January 2019 and May 2019, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per share. Dividend payments for the six months ended June 30, 2019 were $31.0 million.  

In January 2018 and May 2018, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per share. Dividend payments for the six months ended July 1, 2018 were $34.7 million.  

In January 2018, our Board of Directors cancelled the December 2016 stock repurchase program and authorized a new stock repurchase program for up to $1.5 billion of common stock. We intend to repurchase $500 million in 2019. During the six months ended June 30, 2019, we repurchased 6.5 million shares of common stock for $247.2 million at an average price of $38.20 per share. During the six months ended July 1, 2018, we repurchased 8.8 million shares of common stock for $360.8 million at an average price of $40.82 per share. The cumulative repurchases under the $1.5 billion stock repurchase program as of June 30, 2019 totaled 28.1 million shares of common stock for $1,070.7 million at an average price per share of $38.09.  


Table of Contents 

While we declared a quarterly cash dividend and authorized a share repurchase program, we may reduce or eliminate the cash dividend or share repurchase program in the future. Future cash dividends and stock repurchases are subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors, which will consider, among other things, our earnings, capital requirements and financial condition.  

We believe our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balance will be sufficient to pay our quarterly dividend, execute our authorized share repurchase program and meet our working capital and expenditure needs for at least the next twelve months. Inflation has not had a significant long-term impact on earnings.  

Equity Compensation Plans  


10-K, we have a 1996 Employee Stock Purchase Plan and a 2006 Equity and Cash Compensation Incentive Plan (the “2006 Equity Plan”). 


Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements  

On January 26, 2017, the FASB issued ASU 



one-step impairment test will be applied to goodwill at all reporting units, even those with zero or negative carrying amounts. Entities will be required to disclose the amount of goodwill at reporting units with zero or negative carrying amounts. The revised guidance will be applied prospectively, and is effective in 2020. Early adoption is permitted for any impairment tests performed after January 1, 2017. We are currently evaluating the impact of this ASU on our financial position, results of operations and statements of cash flows. 

 Item 3:  

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risks   

For “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” affecting Teradyne, see Part 2 Item 7a, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risks,” in our Annual Report on Form 

10-K filed with the SEC on March 1, 2018. There were no material changes in our exposure to market risk from those set forth in our Annual Report on Form 

10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018. 

In addition to market risks described in our Annual Report on Form 

10-K, we have an equity price risk related to the fair value of our convertible senior unsecured notes issued in December 2016. In December 2016, Teradyne issued $460 million aggregate principal amount of 1.25% convertible senior unsecured notes (the “Notes”) due December 15, 2023. As of June 30, 2019, the Notes had a fair value of $747.2 million. The table below provides a sensitivity analysis of hypothetical 10% changes of Teradyne’s stock price as of the end of the second quarter of 2019 and the estimated impact on the fair value of the Notes. The selected scenarios are not predictions of future events, but rather are intended to illustrate the effect such event may have on the fair value of the Notes. The fair value of the Notes is subject to equity price risk due to the convertible feature. The fair value of the Notes will generally increase as Teradyne’s common stock price increases and will generally decrease as the common stock price declines in value. The change in stock price affects the fair value of the  


Table of Contents 



 Item 4:  

Controls and Procedures   

As of the end of the period covered by this report, our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Rule 


15d-15(f) promulgated under the Exchange Act. Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this report, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective in ensuring that material information required to be disclosed in the reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, including ensuring that such material information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. 


Table of Contents 

PART II. OTHER INFORMATION  

 Item 1:  

Legal Proceedings   

We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims, which have arisen, in the ordinary course of business. In the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.  

 Item 1A:  

Risk Factors   

In addition to other information set forth in this Form 


10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. The risk factors described in our Annual Report on Form 

10-K remain applicable to our business. 

The risks described in our Annual Report on Form 


Trade regulations and restrictions could impact our ability to sell products to and support certain customers, which may materially adversely affect our sales and results of operations.  

We are subject to U.S. laws and regulations that limit and restrict the export of some of our products and services and may restrict our transactions with certain customers, business partners and other persons. In certain circumstances, export control and economic sanctions regulations may prohibit the export of certain products, services and technologies, and in other circumstances we may be required to obtain an export license before exporting the controlled item. We must also comply with export restrictions and laws imposed by other countries affecting trade and investments. We maintain an export compliance program but there are risks that the compliance controls could be circumvented, exposing us to legal liabilities. Compliance with these laws has not significantly limited our sales, but could significantly limit them in the future. Changes in, and responses to, U.S. trade policy could reduce the competitiveness of our products and cause our sales to drop, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  

The U.S. government from time to time has issued export restrictions that prohibit U.S. companies from exporting U.S. manufactured products, foreign manufactured products with more than 25% controlled U.S. content, as well as U.S. origin technology. For example, the U.S. Department of Commerce has restricted the access of U.S. origin technologies to certain Chinese companies by adding those companies to the Entity List under U.S. Export Administration Regulations (“EAR”). On May 16, 2019, Huawei and 68 of its affiliates, including HiSilicon, were added to the U.S. Department of Commerce Entity List under the EAR. This action by the U.S. Department of Commerce imposes new export licensing requirements on exports, 

re-exports, and 

in-country transfers of all U.S. regulated products, software and technology to the designated Huawei entities. While most of our products are not subject to the EAR and therefore not affected by the Entity List restrictions, certain of our products are currently manufactured in the U.S. and thus subject to the Entity List restrictions. Compliance with the Entity List restrictions has not significantly impacted our sales, but could limit sales in the future. In addition, the prohibition on transfers of U.S. origin technology to Huawei could significantly limit our ability to service certain of our products sold to Huawei and our ability to engage in product development activities with Huawei and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Furthermore, Huawei’s inability to obtain products from other companies in its supply chain may adversely impact Huawei’s demand for our products. Huawei or other foreign customers affected by future U.S. government sanctions or threats of sanctions may respond by developing their own solutions to replace our products or by adopting our foreign competitors’ solutions. Also, our controls related to Entity List compliance could be circumvented, exposing us to legal liabilities. Even if such restrictions are lifted, any financial or other penalties or continuing export restrictions imposed on Huawei could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 


Table of Contents 

 Item 2:  

Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds   

In January 2018, our Board of Directors cancelled the December 2016 stock repurchase program and authorized a new stock repurchase program for up to $1.5 billion of common stock. We intend to repurchase $500 million in 2019. During the six months ended June 30, 2019, we repurchased 6.5 million shares of common stock for $247.2 million at an average price of $38.20 per share. During the six months ended July 1, 2018, we repurchased 8.8 million shares of common stock for $360.8 million at an average price of $40.82 per share. The cumulative repurchases under the $1.5 billion stock repurchase program as of June 30, 2019 totaled 28.1 million shares of common stock for $1,070.7 million at an average price per share of $38.09.  



Includes approximately three thousand shares at an average price of $44.36 withheld from employees for the payment of taxes.   

We satisfy U.S. federal and state minimum withholding tax obligations due upon the vesting and the conversion of restricted stock units into shares of our common stock, by automatically withholding from the shares being issued, a number of shares with an aggregate fair market value on the date of such vesting and conversion that would satisfy the minimum withholding amount due.  

 Item 4:  

Mine Safety Disclosures   

Not Applicable  

 Item 6: 

Exhibits   



Table of Contents 



Management Contract or Compensatory Plan   


Table of Contents 

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.  


