fls.txt
If any of the Company’s assumptions prove incorrect or should unanticipated circumstances arise, actual results could materially differ from those anticipated by such forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
It is not possible to predict with certainty whether or not the Company and its subsidiaries will ultimately be successful in any of these legal matters, or if not, what the impact might be.


item2.txt
This report has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC” or the “Commission”) in Washington, D.C. and can be obtained by contacting the SEC’s public reference operations or obtaining it through the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov.
The segment table located in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements sets forth the Company’s results of operations (in thousands) including net sales, gross profit, and operating income for each of the Company’s five segments during the periods shown.
For each line item in the table, the total of the outdoor, fitness, marine, auto, and aviation segments’ amounts equals the amount in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income included in Item 1.
As indicated in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the methodology used to allocate certain selling, general, and administrative expenses was refined in the first quarter of 2019.
Fitness was the largest portion of our revenue mix at 26% in the second quarter of 2019 compared to 25% in the second quarter of 2018.
Total unit sales in the second quarter of 2019 increased to 3,838 when compared to total unit sales of 3,783 in the second quarter of 2018.
The outdoor segment revenue increase was primarily driven by strong sales in golf and inReach product lines.
A portion of license expense favorability in the auto segment is expected to continue for the remainder of the year.
The total absolute dollar decrease was primarily attributable to decreased cooperative advertising and point-of-sale display advertising expense in the auto segment and decreased media advertising in the fitness segment, slightly offset by increased media and cooperative advertising in the outdoor segment.
The auto segment decrease as a percent of revenue was primarily due to less amortization expense associated with intangible assets.
As noted above and in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company refined its methodology to allocate certain selling, general and administrative expenses in the beginning of the 2019 fiscal year.
For comparative purposes, we estimate selling, general and administrative expenses for the second quarter of 2018 would have been approximately $5 million more for the aviation segment, approximately $4 million less for the marine segment, approximately $1 million less for the outdoor segment, and not significantly different for the fitness and auto segments.
Considering the refined allocation methodology noted above, we estimate selling, general and administrative expenses for the 52-weeks ended December 29, 2018 would have been approximately $18 million more for the aviation segment, approximately $11 million less for the marine segment, approximately $7 million less for the outdoor segment, and not significantly different for the fitness and auto segments.
Foreign currency gains and losses for the Company are typically driven by movements in the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling in relation to the U.S. Dollar.
The Taiwan Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin Corporation, the U.S. Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin (Europe) Ltd., and the Euro is the functional currency of most of our other European subsidiaries, although some transactions and balances are denominated in British Pounds.
The majority of the Company’s consolidated foreign currency gain or loss is typically driven by the significant cash and marketable securities, receivables and payables held in a currency other than the functional currency at a given legal entity.
Due to the relative size of the entities using a functional currency other than the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling, currency fluctuations related to these entities are not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial statements.
The $3.4 million currency gain recognized in the second quarter of 2019 was primarily due to the U.S. Dollar weakening against the Euro and strengthening against the Taiwan Dollar, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the British Pound Sterling, within the 13-weeks ended June 29, 2019.
During this period, the U.S. Dollar weakened 1.4% against the Euro and strengthened 0.3% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in gains of $3.7 million and $1.7 million, respectively, while the U.S. Dollar strengthened 2.6% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in a loss of $0.7 million.
The remaining net currency loss of $1.3 million was related to the timing of transactions and impacts of other currencies, each of which was individually immaterial.
The $2.6 million currency gain recognized in the second quarter of 2018 was primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against the Taiwan Dollar, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Euro and British Pound Sterling within the 13-weeks ended June 30, 2018.
During this period, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 4.7% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a gain of $26.7 million, while the U.S. Dollar strengthened 5.2% against the Euro and 5.8% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in losses of $14.0 million and $1.9 million, respectively.


item3.txt



item4.txt
The Company maintains a system of disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information, which is required to be timely disclosed, is accumulated and communicated to management in a timely fashion.
As of June 29, 2019, the Company carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of the Company’s management, including the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2018.
Exhibit 31.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a).


