fls.txt
If any of the Company’s assumptions prove incorrect or should unanticipated circumstances arise, actual results could materially differ from those anticipated by such forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
The following information supplements and amends the discussion set forth under Part I, Item 3 “Legal Proceedings” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2017 and the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2018.
PulseOn Oy v. Garmin (Europe) Ltd. On February 21, 2018, PulseOn Oy filed an application with the Court of Appeal in England seeking leave to appeal the judgment of the Patent Court issued on January 18, 2018, holding that no accused Garmin products infringed either of the Registered Community Designs asserted by PulseOn Oy.


item2.txt
This report has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC” or the “Commission”) in Washington, D.C. and can be obtained by contacting the SEC’s public reference operations or obtaining it through the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov.
The segment table located in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements sets forth the Company’s results of operations (in thousands) including net sales, gross profit, and operating income for each of the Company’s five segments during the periods shown.
For each line item in the table, the total of the outdoor, fitness, marine, auto, and aviation segments’ amounts equals the amount in the condensed consolidated statements of income included in Item 1.
Outdoor was the largest portion of our revenue mix at 26% in the third quarter of 2018 compared to 25% in the third quarter of 2017.
Auto revenue represented the largest portion of our revenue mix in the third quarter of 2017 at 26% and declined to 20% in the third quarter of 2018.
Total unit sales in the third quarter of 2018 increased to 3,527 when compared to total unit sales of 3,492 in the third quarter of 2017.
The fitness segment increase in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue was primarily driven by product mix.
The aviation segment decrease in cost of goods as a percent of revenue was primarily driven by a reduction in warranty costs compared to the year-ago quarter.
The total absolute dollar decrease was driven primarily by decreased media advertising in the auto and fitness segments, partially offset by increased media advertising in the outdoor and marine segments.
Selling, general and administrative expense increased 13% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter.
The absolute dollar increase in the third quarter of 2018 was primarily attributable to personnel costs and expenses from recent acquisitions.
The decrease in absolute dollars and as a percent of revenue in the auto segment was primarily attributable to a current quarter reduction in legal related costs compared to the year-ago quarter.
Research and development expense increased $9.3 million in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter.
The growth in operating income in absolute dollars and as a percent of revenue was primarily attributable to revenue growth and increased gross margins, as discussed above.
Foreign currency gains and losses for the Company are typically driven by movements in the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling in relation to the U.S. Dollar.
The Taiwan Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin Corporation, the U.S. Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin (Europe) Ltd., and the Euro is the functional currency of most of our other European subsidiaries, although some transactions and balances are denominated in British Pounds.
The majority of the Company’s consolidated foreign currency gain or loss is typically driven by the significant cash and marketable securities, receivables and payables held in a currency other than the functional currency at a given legal entity.
Due to the relative size of the entities using a functional currency other than the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling, currency fluctuations related to these entities are not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial statements.
During this period, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 0.7% against the Euro and 1.3% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in losses of $2.7 million and $0.6 million, respectively, while the U.S. Dollar remained relatively flat against the Taiwan Dollar.
The $8.6 million currency gain recognized in the third quarter of 2017 was primarily due to the weakening of the U.S. Dollar against the Euro and the British Pound Sterling, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar weakening against the Taiwan Dollar within the 13-weeks ended September 30, 2017.
During this period, the U.S. Dollar weakened 3.4% against the Euro and 2.8% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in gains of $8.0 million and $0.7 million, respectively, while the U.S. Dollar weakened 0.3% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a loss of $1.6 million.


item3.txt
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2017.


item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
The following information supplements and amends the discussion set forth under Part I, Item 3 “Legal Proceedings” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2017 and the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2018.
PulseOn Oy v. Garmin (Europe) Ltd. On February 21, 2018, PulseOn Oy filed an application with the Court of Appeal in England seeking leave to appeal the judgment of the Patent Court issued on January 18, 2018, holding that no accused Garmin products infringed either of the Registered Community Designs asserted by PulseOn Oy.
The hearing before the Court of Appeal is scheduled to take place on January 30, 2019.
Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds The Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program on February 13, 2015, authorizing the Company to purchase up to $300 million of its common shares as market and business conditions warrant.


