If any of the Company’s assumptions prove incorrect or should unanticipated circumstances arise, actual results could materially differ from those anticipated by such forward-looking statements.It is not possible to predict with certainty whether or not the Company and its subsidiaries will ultimately be successful in any of these legal matters, or if not, what the impact might be.This report has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC” or the “Commission”) in Washington, D.C. and can be obtained by contacting the SEC’s public reference operations or obtaining it through the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov.
The segment table located in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements sets forth the Company’s results of operations (in thousands) including net sales, gross profit, and operating income for each of the Company’s five segments during the periods shown.
For each line item in the table, the total of the outdoor, fitness, marine, auto, and aviation segments’ amounts equals the amount in the condensed consolidated statements of income included in Item 1.
As indicated in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the methodology used to allocate certain selling, general, and administrative expenses was refined in the first quarter of 2019.
Fitness was the largest portion of our revenue mix at 24% in the first quarter of 2019 compared to 23% in the first quarter of 2018.
Total unit sales in the first quarter of 2019 increased to 3,182 when compared to total unit sales of 2,956 in the first quarter of 2018.
Gross profit dollars in the first quarter of 2019 increased 6% primarily due to growth in net sales while gross margin decreased 100 basis points compared to the year-ago quarter.
Gross margin increased in the auto segment and was relatively flat in the aviation and marine segments when compared to the year-ago quarter.
The total absolute dollar increase was primarily attributable to increased media advertising in the outdoor segment and increased cooperative advertising in the fitness and marine segments.
As noted above and in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company refined its methodology to allocate certain selling, general and administrative expenses in the beginning of the 2019 fiscal year.
For comparative purposes, we estimate selling, general and administrative expenses for the first quarter of 2018 would have been approximately $4 million more for the aviation segment, approximately $4 million less for the marine segment, and not significantly different for the outdoor, fitness, and auto segments.
Considering the refined allocation methodology noted above, we estimate selling, general and administrative expenses for the 52-weeks ended December 29, 2018 would have been approximately $18 million more for the aviation segment, approximately $11 million less for the marine segment, approximately $7 million less for the outdoor segment, and not significantly different for the fitness and auto segments.
In the current quarter, the growth in operating income in absolute dollars was primarily attributable to revenue and gross profit dollar growth, partially offset by increased operating expenses, as discussed above.Item 4.Legal Proceedings” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2018.
Item 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures Item 5.Other Information Exhibit 31.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a).