If any of the Company’s assumptions prove incorrect or should unanticipated circumstances arise, actual results could materially differ from those anticipated by such forward-looking statements.The following information supplements and amends the discussion set forth under Part I, Item 3 "Legal Proceedings" in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2017 and the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2018.This report has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC" or the "Commission") in Washington, D.C. and can be obtained by contacting the SEC's public reference operations or obtaining it through the SEC's website at http://www.sec.gov.
The segment table located in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements sets forth the Company’s results of operations (in thousands) including net sales, gross profit, and operating income for each of the Company’s five segments during the periods shown.
For each line item in the table, the total of the outdoor, fitness, marine, auto, and aviation segments' amounts equals the amount in the condensed consolidated statements of income included in Item 1.
Fitness was the largest portion of our revenue mix at 25% in the second quarter of 2018 compared to 22% in the second quarter of 2017.
Auto revenue represented the largest portion of our revenue mix in the second quarter of 2017 at 27% and declined to 20% in the second quarter of 2018.
Total unit sales in the second quarter of 2018 decreased to 3,783 when compared to total unit sales of 3,904 in the second quarter of 2017.
The outdoor segment increase in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue primarily resulted from increased promotional activity during the second quarter of 2018.
The fitness and aviation segments increase in cost of goods was largely consistent with the increase in sales.
Gross profit dollars in the second quarter of 2018 increased 8% while gross margin increased 30 basis points compared to the year-ago quarter.
Advertising expense increased 4% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenues compared to the year-ago quarter.
Auto advertising expense, in absolute dollars and as a percent of revenue, increased compared to the year-ago quarter primarily due to a refresh of point-of-sale displays.
Selling, general and administrative expense increased 14% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenues compared to the year-ago quarter.
The auto segment increase as a percent of revenues in the second quarter of 2018 was primarily attributable to accelerated amortization of an intangible asset related to a previous acquisition.
The increase in absolute dollars and as a percent of revenues in the marine segment was primarily attributable to expenses associated with recent acquisitions.Item 4.The following information supplements and amends the discussion set forth under Part I, Item 3 "Legal Proceedings" in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2017 and the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2018.
PulseOn Oy v. Garmin (Europe) Ltd. On February 21, 2018, PulseOn Oy filed an application with the Court of Appeal in England seeking leave to appeal the judgment of the Patent Court issued on January 18, 2018, holding that no accused Garmin products infringed either of the Registered Community Designs asserted by PulseOn Oy.