 Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. This commentary should be read in conjunction with the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations from the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 1, 2018.  



 Business Overview and Environment  



 TESSCO architects and delivers innovative product and value chain solutions to support wireless broadband systems. Although we sell products to customers in many countries, approximately 98% of our sales are made to customers in the United States. We have operations and office facilities in Hunt Valley, Maryland, Reno, Nevada and San Antonio, Texas.   







 Our second quarter fiscal 2019 revenue increased by 9.3% compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2018. We experienced second quarter fiscal 2019 revenue growth within our commercial segments of 11.0% and an increase in revenue in the retail segment of 5.9%, as compared to the second fiscal quarter of 2018. The growth in our commercial segment was driven by increases in our public carrier markets on account of increased sales to Tier 1 carriers and associated contractors. For the retail segment, year over year, revenue increased due, in part, to successful execution of the iPhone XS and the XS Max launches as well as growth in Ventev mobile device accessory sales. On the product side, revenue increased in our base station infrastructure, installation, test and maintenance and mobile device accessories categories by 27.0%, 15.8%, and 5.9% respectively. Revenue decreased in our network systems category by 22.7%, for the second quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to the same quarter last year.   



 Our second quarter fiscal year 2019 gross profit increased by 4.9%, compared to the second quarter of fiscal year 2018. The increase in gross profit was primarily the result of the increase in revenue discussed above. 





 Table of Contents  



Gross margin for the second quarter fiscal year 2019 and fiscal year 2018 was 19.8% and 20.6% respectively. The primary reason for the decrease in margin is higher freight expenses and changes in customer mix associated with the large increase in public carrier revenues. The freight increases are related to the growth in project business, primarily in the carrier market as well as a higher portion of international air shipments of Ventev inventory. Selling, General and Administrative expenses for the second quarter fiscal year 2019 were up 11% compared to the second quarter fiscal year 2018. The increase is related to increased freight costs and other variable operations costs primarily related to our large carriers and retail customers. As a result of the factors discussed above, net income decreased by 32.9% and diluted earnings per share decreased by 33.3% compared to the prior-year quarter.  



 Our ongoing ability to earn revenues and gross profits from customers and vendors looking to us for product and supply chain solutions depends upon a number of factors. The terms, and accordingly the factors, applicable to each relationship often differ. Among these factors are the strength of the customer’s or vendor’s business, the supply and demand for the product or service, including price stability, changing customer or vendor requirements, and our ability to support the customer or vendor and to continually demonstrate that we can improve the way they do business. In addition, the agreements or arrangements on which our customer and vendor relationships are based are typically of limited duration, typically do not include any obligation in respect of any specific product purchase or sale and are terminable by either party upon several months or otherwise relatively short notice. Because of the nature of our business, we have been affected from time to time in the past by the loss and changes in the business habits of significant customer and vendor relationships, and we may continue to be so affected in the future. Our customer relationships could also be affected by wireless carrier consolidation or the overall global economic environment.  



 The wireless communications distribution industry is competitive and fragmented and is comprised of several national distributors. In addition, many manufacturers sell direct. Barriers to entry for distributors are relatively low, particularly in the mobile devices and accessories market, and the risk of new competitors entering the marketplace is high. Consolidation of larger wireless carriers has and will most likely continue to impact our current and potential customer base. Our ability to maintain customer and vendor relationships is subject to competitive pressures and challenges. We believe, however, that our strength in service, the breadth and depth of our product offering, our information technology system, industry experience and knowledge, and our large customer base and purchasing relationships with approximately 440 manufacturers, provide us with a significant competitive advantage over new entrants to the marketplace.  





 Table of Contents  



 Results of Operations  



 Second Quarter of Fiscal Year 2019 Compared with Second Quarter of Fiscal Year 2018  



 Total Revenues. Revenues for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 increased 9.3% compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018. Revenues in our public carrier market increased by 44.7% and revenues in the retail market increased by 5.9%. This growth was primarily driven by our ability to expand market share with Tier 1 Carrier installers and contractors. The growth in our public carrier and retail markets was partially offset by a 2.2% decline in sales to the newly identified integrator and value-added reseller market, created when implementing our enhanced go-to-market strategy and reflecting the consolidation of our previously identified value-added resellers, government channels and private system operator markets. This new structure is expected to enhance sales opportunities across the consolidated group as well as provide better coverage to the customers and better align territories with supplier partners.  



 Total Gross Profit. Gross profit for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 increased by 4.9% compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2018. Overall gross profit margin decreased slightly from 20.6% in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 to 19.8% in the second quarter of fiscal 2019. This decline was caused primarily due to higher freight expenses and change in customer mix. Within our commercial segment, gross profit in our public carrier, and integrators and value-added reseller markets increased by 26.6%, and 3.1%, respectively. We continue to experience margin compression within the public carrier market because of increases in sales with larger customers. Within our retail market, gross profit decreased by 0.4% in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to 2018, due to higher freight costs, particularly air freight from foreign vendors.   



 As discussed above under the heading “Business Overview and Environment,” our ongoing ability to earn revenues and gross profits from customers and vendors depends upon a number of factors which often differ for each relationship. Agreements or arrangements on which these relationships are based typically do not include any obligation in respect of any specific product purchase or sale, are of limited duration, and are terminable by either party upon relatively short notice. We have been affected from time to time in the past by the loss and changes in the business habits of significant customer and vendor relationships, and we may continue to be so affected in the future.   



 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Total selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $2.8 million for the second quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2018. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues increased from 18.4% for the second quarter of fiscal 2018, to 18.6% for the second quarter of fiscal 2019.  



 The increase in our selling, general and administrative expenses was mainly due to the increase in freight cost and other variable operations costs primarily related to the large carrier and retail customers. In addition to that, there was an increase of $0.6 million in bad debt expense, an increase of $0.3 million in information technology infrastructure to support our sales initiatives, and an increase of $0.3 million in health care costs, during the second quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2018.   



 We continually evaluate the credit worthiness of our existing customer receivable portfolio and provide an appropriate reserve based on this evaluation. We also evaluate the credit worthiness of prospective and current customers and make decisions regarding extension of credit terms to such customers based on this evaluation. We incurred bad debt expense of $665,100 and $16,900 for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and September 24, 2017, respectively. There were a few isolated incidences which resulted in a higher than usual bad debt expense during the second quarter of fiscal 2019. In addition, the bad debt expense for the same period of the prior year was unusually low.  





 Table of Contents  



 Interest, Net. Net interest expense increased from $156,500 for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 to $244,800 for the second quarter of fiscal 2019. Increased focus on business opportunities for sales to our public carrier customers has required us to maintain increased inventory and accounts receivable levels, and at times has resulted in increased borrowings and interest expense under our Revolving Credit Facility (discussed in Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q). We expect this higher level of interest expense to continue for at least the next several quarters.   



 Income Taxes, Net Income and Diluted Earnings per Share. The effective tax rate decreased from 42.6% for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 to 28.8% for the second quarter of fiscal 2019. The effective tax rate for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was lower primarily due to a change in tax law. The annual federal rate has dropped from 35% to 21% due to the Tax Act. Net income decreased 32.9% and diluted earnings per share decreased 33.3% for the second quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to the corresponding prior-year quarter.   



 First Six Months of Fiscal Year 2019 Compared with First Six Months of Fiscal Year 2018  



 Total Revenues. Revenues for the first six months of fiscal 2019 increased 8.6% compared with the first six months of fiscal 2018. Within our commercial segment, revenues in our public carrier market increased by 48.2%, largely due to increased spending among Tier 1 carrier and contractors customers, and also due in part to better execution of our selling strategy in this market. As for integrators and value-added reseller market, there is a slight decrease in revenue by 0.4%. The growth in the commercial segment was partially offset by a decline in our retail segment of 1.1% due, in part, to consolidation of our customer base within this market.  



 Total Gross Profit. Gross profit for the first six months of fiscal 2019 increased by 5.1% compared to the first six months of fiscal 2018. Within our commercial segment, gross profit in our public carriers and integrators and value-added reseller market increased by 31.6% and 2.7%, respectively. This growth in our commercial segment was partially offset by a decrease in our retail segment by 1.8%. Overall gross profit margin decreased from 20.7% in the first six months of fiscal 2018 to 20.1% in the first six months of fiscal 2019. This decline was primarily caused by a change in customer mix, including the increase in lower margin sales in the public carrier market.   



 As discussed above under the heading “Business Overview and Environment,” our ongoing ability to earn revenues and gross profits from customers and vendors depends upon a number of factors which often differ for each relationship. Agreements or arrangements on which these relationships are based typically do not include any obligation in respect of any specific product purchase or sale, are of limited duration, and are terminable by either party upon relatively short notice. We have been affected from time to time in the past by the loss and changes in the business habits of significant customer and vendor relationships, and we may continue to be so affected in the future.   



 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Total selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $3.9 million for the first six months of fiscal 2019, compared to the first six months of fiscal 2018. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues decreased from 19.1% for the first six months of fiscal 2018, to 18.9% for the first six months of fiscal 2019.  



 The increase in our selling, general and administrative expenses was mainly due to the increase in freight cost and other variable operations costs primarily related to the large carrier and retail customers. In addition, information technology expense increased $1.1 million during the first six months of fiscal 2019 as compared to the first six months of fiscal 2018. We continue to invest in our information technology infrastructure to support our sales initiatives.  





 Table of Contents  



 Corporate Support expense increased by $1.2 million for the first six months of fiscal 2019, compared to the first six months of fiscal 2018 primarily related to increase in bad debt expense and new product development.   



 We continually evaluate the credit worthiness of our existing customer receivable portfolio and provide an appropriate reserve based on this evaluation. We also evaluate the credit worthiness of prospective and current customers and make decisions regarding extension of credit terms to such customers based on this evaluation. We incurred bad debt expense of $1,021,300 and $247,900 for the six months ended September 30, 2018 and September 24, 2017, respectively. There were a few isolated incidences during fiscal year 2019 which have resulted in a higher than usual year to date bad debt expense. In addition, the bad debt expense for the same period prior year was unusually low.   



 Interest, Net. Net interest expense increased from $225,100 for the first six months of fiscal 2018 to $419,200 for the first six months of fiscal 2019. Increased focus on business opportunities for sales to our public carrier customers has required us to maintain increased inventory and accounts receivable levels, and at times has resulted in increased borrowings and interest expense under our Revolving Credit Facility (discussed in Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial statements, included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q). We expect this higher level of interest expense to continue for at least the next several quarters.  



 Income Taxes, Net Income and Diluted Earnings per Share. The effective tax rate decreased from 43.0% for the first six months of fiscal 2018 to 27.4% for the first six months of fiscal 2019. The effective tax rate for the first six months of fiscal 2019 was lower primarily due to a change in tax law. The annual federal rate has dropped from 35% to 21% due to the Tax Act. Our provision for income taxes decreased by 52.2% compared to the first six months of fiscal 2018, primarily as a result of lower income before provision for income taxes. Net income decreased by 4.4% and diluted earnings per share decreased 6.9% for the first six month of fiscal 2019, compared to the first six months of fiscal 2018.  



 Liquidity and Capital Resources  



 The following table summarizes our cash flows provided by or used in operating, investing and financing activities for the six months ended September 30, 2018 and September 24, 2017.  





 We used $3.3 million of net cash in operating activities for the first six months of fiscal 2019, compared with net cash used in operating activities of $16.8 million for the first six months of fiscal 2018. This fiscal 2019 outflow was driven by an increase in accounts receivable and inventory, and partially offset by net income and an increase in accounts payable. Increasing sales to our public carrier customers at times requires significant investments in inventory, and at times results in larger accounts receivable balances. Accounts payable also increased in response to higher inventory levels. Both current and potential opportunities within our public carrier business have required an increase in working capital investments. As such, on October 19, 2017 we entered into the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, as discussed below, based upon our anticipated borrowing and cash needs.  





 Table of Contents  



 Net cash used in investing activities of $2.3 million for the first six months of fiscal 2019 was up from expenditures of $1.5 million for the first six months of fiscal 2018. Cash used in both periods was due to capital expenditures largely comprised of investments in information technology.   



 Net cash provided by financing activities was $5.5 million for the first six months of fiscal 2019, compared to $10.0 million provided in the first six months of fiscal 2018. During the first six months of fiscal 2019 and 2018, we utilized our asset based secured Revolving Credit Facility, leading to a cash inflow of $8.9 million and $13.3 million, respectively. During the first six months of each of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, we had cash outflows of $3.4 million and $3.3 million, respectively, due to cash dividends paid to shareholders.   



 On October 19, 2017, the Company and its primary operating subsidiaries, as co-borrowers, entered into an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement with the Company’s primary lenders. Pursuant to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, the Credit Agreement for the secured Revolving Credit Facility previously established in June 2016, was amended and restated in order to, among other things, increase the Company’s borrowing limit from up to $35 million to up to $75 million. In addition to expanding the borrowing limit, the Amended and Restated Credit Facility extends the applicable maturity date to October 19, 2021. As of September 30, 2018, we had a $19.7 million balance on the Revolving Credit Facility; therefore, we had $55.3 million available, subject to the Borrowing Base limitations and compliance with the other applicable terms of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, including the financial and other covenants discussed in Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.  



 In connection with the entering into of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, the Company and the other Company affiliate borrowers and subsidiaries, referred to collectively as the Loan Parties, executed and delivered to SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent, a Reaffirmation Agreement, pursuant to which the obligations of the Loan Parties under the Guaranty and Security Agreement delivered by the Loan Parties in connection with the secured Revolving Credit Facility as previously existing (including the previously existing guaranty by the Loan Parties not otherwise Borrowers and the previously existing grant by the Company and the other Loan Parties of a continuing first priority security interest in inventory, accounts receivable and deposit accounts, and on all documents, instruments, general intangibles, letter of credit rights, and all proceeds) were ratified and confirmed as respects the Obligations arising under the Amended and Restated Credit Facility from time to time.   



 On March 31, 2009, we entered into a term loan with the Baltimore County Economic Development Revolving Loan Fund for an aggregate principal amount of $250,000. The term loan is payable in equal monthly installments of principal and interest of $2,300, with the balance due at maturity on April 1, 2019. The term loan bears interest at 2.00% per annum and is secured by a subordinate position on our Hunt Valley, Maryland facility. At September 30, 2018, the principal balance of this term loan was $16,000.  



 We have made quarterly dividend payments to holders of our common stock since the third quarter of fiscal 2010. Our most recent quarterly cash dividend of $0.20 per share was paid in August 2018. On October 25, 2018, we declared a quarterly cash dividend in the amount of $0.20 per share, payable on November 28, 2018 to shareholders of record as of November 14, 2018.   



 Any future declaration of dividends and the establishment of any corresponding record and payment dates remains subject to further determination from time to time by the Board of Directors.   



 We believe that our existing cash, payments from customers and availability under our Revolving Credit Facility will be sufficient to support our operations for at least the next twelve months. To minimize interest 





 Table of Contents  





 In addition, our liquidity could be negatively impacted by decreasing revenues and profits resulting from a decrease in demand for our products or a reduction in capital expenditures by our customers, or by the weakened financial conditions of our customers or suppliers, in each case as a result of a downturn in the global economy, among other factors.  



 Recent Accounting Pronouncements   



 A description of recently issued and adopted accounting pronouncements is contained in Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.  



 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates   



 Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amount of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.   



 For a detailed discussion on our critical accounting policies, please refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 1, 2018.   



 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements   



 We have no material off-balance sheet arrangements.  



 Forward-Looking Statements  



 This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q may contain forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements may generally be identified by the use of the words “may,” “will,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” and similar expressions, but the absence of these words or phrases does not necessarily mean that a statement is not forward looking. Forward looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those described in or contemplated by any such forward-looking statement for a variety of reasons, including those risks identified in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and other periodic reports filed with the SEC, under the heading “Risk Factors” and otherwise. Consequently, the reader is cautioned to consider all forward-looking statements in light of the risks to which they are subject.  



 We are not able to identify or control all circumstances that could occur in the future that may adversely affect our business and operating results. Without limiting the risks that we describe in our periodic reports and 





 Table of Contents  





 Available Information  





 Item 4. Controls and Procedures.  



 The Company’s management, with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), has evaluated the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) or 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act)) as of the end of the period covered by this quarterly report. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Based on the evaluation of these controls and procedures required by Rules 13a-15(b) or 15d-15(b) of the Exchange Act, the Company’s management, including the CEO and CFO, have concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this quarterly report, the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by the Company in reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms and to provide reasonable assurance that such information is accumulated and communicated to the Company’s 





 Table of Contents  



management, including the Company’s CEO and CFO, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. During the period covered by this quarterly report, there have been no changes to the Company’s internal control over financial reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.  





 Table of Contents  



 PART II. OTHER INFORMATION  



 Item 1. Legal Proceedings.  





 Item 1A. Risk Factors.  



 There have been no material changes from the risk factors as previously disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 1, 2018. Nevertheless, information that we have disclosed or will disclose from time to time in our public filings (including this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and other periodic reports filed under the Exchange Act) may provide additional data or information relative to our previously disclosed risk factors. We are not able to identify or control all circumstances that could occur in the future that may adversely affect our business and operating results. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on, or that management currently deems immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations.  



 Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.   



 None.  



