 In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments which amends the impairment model by requiring entities to use a forward-looking approach based on expected losses rather than incurred losses to estimate credit losses on certain types of financial instruments, including trade receivables. This may result in the earlier recognition of allowances for losses. This ASU is effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2019. The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and will adopt the standard on the first day of the Company’s 2021 fiscal year.  

 Forward-Looking Statements  

 This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q may contain forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements may generally be identified by the use of the words “may,” “will,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “intends,” “projects,” “plans,” “should,” “would,” “could,” and similar expressions, but the absence of these words or phrases does not necessarily mean that a statement is not forward looking. Forward looking statements involve a number of known and unknown risks and uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Our actual results may differ materially from those described in or contemplated by any such forward-looking statement for a variety of reasons, including those risks identified in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and other periodic reports filed with the SEC, under the heading “Risk Factors” and otherwise. Consequently, the reader is cautioned to consider all forward-looking statements in light of the risks to which they are subject.  

