PART II -- OTHER INFORMATION

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

We are presently engaged in various legal actions arising in the normal course of business.
We believe that it is unlikely that any of these actions will have a material adverse impact on our operating results; however, because of the inherent uncertainties of litigation, the outcome of any of these actions could be unfavorable and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
For additional information about our material legal proceedings, please see Note 6, Commitments and Contingencies, of the accompanying notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements.
RISK FACTORS 

You should carefully consider the risk factors discussed in Part I, "Item 1A.
Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on May 10, 2017 (the "Form 10-K"), each of which could materially affect our business, financial position, or future results of operations.
Except as described below, there have been no material changes to the risk factors included in the Form 10-K. 

Changes in applicable tax regulations and resolutions of tax disputes could negatively affect our financial results.
The Company is subject to taxation in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions.
On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”).
The changes included in the Tax Act are broad and complex.
As rule making bodies and new legislation is enacted to interpret the Tax Act, these changes may adjust the estimates provided in this report.
The changes may possibly be material, due to, among other things, the Treasury Department’s promulgation of regulations and guidance that interpret the Tax Act, corrective technical legislative amendments that may change the Tax Act, any changes in accounting standards for income taxes or related interpretations in response to the Tax Act, or any updates or changes to estimates the company has utilized to calculate the transition impacts, including impacts from changes to current year earnings estimates and foreign exchange rates of foreign subsidiaries.
In addition, it is uncertain how each country where we do business may react to the Tax Act.
Moreover, the evolving global tax landscape accompanying the adoption and guidance associated with the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting reporting requirements (“BEPS") recommended by the G8, G20 and Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development ("OECD") may require us to make adjustments to our financial results.
As these and other tax laws and related regulations change, our financial results could be materially impacted.
Given the unpredictability of these possible changes, it is difficult to assess whether the overall effect of these potential tax changes would be positive or negative for our earnings and cash flow, but such changes could adversely impact our financial results.
We are also subject to examination by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") and other tax authorities, including state revenue agencies and foreign governments.
While we regularly assess the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from examinations by the IRS and other tax authorities to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, there can be no assurance that the actual outcome resulting from these examinations will not materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.
The risks described here and on the Form 10-K are not the only risks we face.
Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial position, or future results of operations.
UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS

Share Repurchase Programs




EXHIBITS 



Plantronics, Inc.


CROSS REFERENCE TABLE


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
