Part I -- FINANCIAL INFORMATION

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

CERTAIN FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION: 

This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 ("Securities Act") and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act").
Forward-looking statements may generally be identified by the use of such words as "anticipate," "believe," “could,” "expect," "intend," “may,” "plan," "potential," "shall," "will," “would,” or variations of such words and similar expressions, or the negative of these terms.
Specific forward-looking statements contained within this Form 10-Q include, but are not limited to, statements regarding (i) our beliefs regarding the UC&C market, market dynamics and opportunities, and customer and partner behavior as well as our position in the market, (ii) our expectations for the impact of the Acquisition as it relates to our strategic vision and additional market opportunities for our combined hardware and services offerings, (iii) our beliefs regarding future enterprise growth drivers, (iv) our expectations regarding the impact of UC&C on headset adoption and how it may impact our investment and partnering activities, (v) our expectations for new and next generation product and services offerings, (vi) our intentions regarding the focus of our sales, marketing and customer services and support teams, (vii) our expenses, including research, development and engineering expenses and selling, general and administrative expenses, (xi) fluctuations in our cash provided by operating activities as a result of various factors, including fluctuations in revenues and operating expenses, timing of product shipments, accounts receivable collections, inventory and supply chain management, and the timing and amount of taxes and other payments, (xii) our future tax rate and payments related to unrecognized tax benefits, (xiii) our anticipated range of capital expenditures for the remainder of Fiscal Year 2019 and the sufficiency of our cash, cash equivalents, and cash from operations to sustain future operations and discretionary cash requirements, (xiv) our ability to pay future stockholder dividends, (xv) our ability to draw funds on our credit facility as needed, (xvi) the sufficiency of our capital resources to fund operations, and other statements regarding our future operations, financial condition and prospects, and business strategies.
Such forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions and are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements.
Factors that could cause actual results and events to differ materially from such forward-looking statements are included, but not limited to, those discussed in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q; in Part I, "Item 1A.
Risk Factors" of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on May 9, 2018; and other documents we have filed with the SEC.
We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by applicable law.
Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements.
OVERVIEW




We sell our products through a high touch sales team and a well developed global network of distributors and channel partners including Value-added Resellers (VARs), integrators, direct marketing resellers (DMRs), service providers, resellers, and retailers.
Our consolidated financial results for the quarter ended December 31, 2018, include the financial results of Polycom from July 2, 2018, the date of Acquisition.
For more information regarding the Acquisition, refer to Note 3, Acquisition, Goodwill, and Acquired Intangible Assets, of the accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
Total Net Revenues (in millions)

Compared to the third quarter of Fiscal Year 2018 total net revenues increased 121% to $501.7 million; the increase in total net revenues is primarily related to the Acquisition.
As a result of purchase accounting, a total of $28.9 million of deferred revenue that otherwise would have been recognized in the third quarter of 2019 was excluded from third quarter revenue of $501.7 million.
Readers are cautioned to review the risks, uncertainties, and assumptions set forth in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, including the section entitled "Certain Forward-Looking Information" and the risk factors set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on May 9, 2018, and other periodic filings with the SEC, any of which could affect our estimates for future financial needs and sources of working capital.
OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS AND CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS

We have not entered into any transactions with unconsolidated entities whereby we have financial guarantees, subordinated retained interests, derivative instruments, or other contingent arrangements that expose us to material continuing risks, contingent liabilities, or any other obligation under a variable interest in an unconsolidated entity that provides us with financing and liquidity support, market risk, or credit risk support.
The new model uses a forward-looking expected loss method, which will generally result in earlier recognition of allowances for losses.
The guidance is effective for the Company's fiscal year ending March 31, 2021 with early adoption permitted beginning in the first quarter of Fiscal Year 2020.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this standard will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
Recently Adopted Pronouncement

Except for the changes below, the Company has consistently applied the accounting policies to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
The Company adopted Topic 606 Revenue from Contracts with Customers to all contracts not completed as of the initial application date of April 1, 2018.
Topic 606 also includes Subtopic 340-40, Other Assets and Deferred Costs - Contracts with Customers, which requires the deferral of incremental costs of obtaining a contract with a customer.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

The discussion of our exposure to market risk related to changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
