PART II -- OTHER INFORMATION
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
We are presently engaged in various legal actions arising in the normal course of business.
We believe that it is unlikely that any of these actions will have a material adverse impact on our operating results; however, because of the inherent uncertainties of litigation, the outcome of any of these actions could be unfavorable and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
For additional information about our material legal proceedings, please see Note 7, Commitments and Contingencies, of the accompanying notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements.
RISK FACTORS
You should carefully consider the risk factors discussed in Part I, "Item 1A.
Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on May 9, 2018 (the "Form 10-K"), and Part II, "Risk Factors" in each of our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the first and second quarters of fiscal year 2019, filed with the SEC on August 7, 2018 and November 7, 2018, respectively, each of which could materially affect our business, financial position, or future results of operations.
Except as described below, there have been no material changes to the risk factors included in the Form 10-K.
UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS
Share Repurchase Programs
On November 28, 2018, our Board of Directors approved a 1 million shares repurchase program expanding our capacity to repurchase shares to approximately 1.7 million shares.
We may repurchase shares from time to time in open market transactions or through privately negotiated transactions.
There is no expiration date associated with the repurchase activity.
"Average Price Paid per Share" reflects open market repurchases of common stock only.
These shares reflect the available shares authorized for repurchase under the expanded program approved by the Board on November 28, 2018.
Includes 7,527 shares that were tendered to us in satisfaction of employee tax withholding obligations upon the vesting of restricted
Represents only shares that were tendered to us in satisfaction of employee tax withholding obligations upon the vesting of restricted
OTHER INFORMATION
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On November 2, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors approved changes to the severance arrangements previously entered into between the Company and its executive officers (“Executive Officers”), including the following named executive officers, Joe Burton, the Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer, Pam Strayer, the Company’s Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Mary Huser, the Company’s Executive Vice President, Chief Legal and Compliance Officer, Jeff Loebbaka, the Company’s Executive Vice President, Global Sales, and Shantanu Sarkar, the Company’s Executive Vice President, Headset Business Unit.
Under the terms approved by the Board of Directors, immediately prior to a Change of Control (as defined in the existing Change of Control agreements currently in effect) all outstanding unvested shares under performance stock unit awards (“PSUs”) will vest at the greater of target performance or actual performance.
The Company intends to enter into amended and restated agreements or amendments to existing agreements with each of the Executive Officers reflecting the approved changes.
EXHIBITS
Plantronics, Inc.
CROSS REFERENCE TABLE
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
