item1.txt
As described in Note 2, we adopted Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), followed by related amendments, on September 30, 2018 under the modified retrospective transition method.
As of September 30, 2018, we recorded a cumulative-effect reduction to the opening balance of our fiscal year 2019 retained earnings of $6,227, net of tax, for the net deferral of previously recognized revenue and related cost of sales, partially offset by the capitalization and deferral of pre-contract costs.
A performance obligation is a promise in a contract to transfer a distinct good or service to the customer and is the unit of account under the new revenue standard.
The timing of revenue recognition, billings and cash collections results in billed accounts receivable, unbilled accounts receivable (contract assets) and advance payments from customers (contract liabilities).
Conversely, when billing occurs subsequent to revenue recognition for contracts recognized over time, balances are recorded in unbilled accounts receivable, net in our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
For sales that include installation services, warranty obligations generally extend for a period of 12 to 24 months from the date of either shipment or acceptance based on the contract terms.
Fair value measurements of reporting units are estimated using an income approach involving discounted or undiscounted cash flow models that contain certain Level 3 inputs requiring management judgment, including projections of economic conditions and customer demand, revenue and margins, changes in competition, operating costs, working capital requirements and new product introductions.
Fair value measurements of the reporting units associated with our goodwill balances and our indefinite-lived intangible assets are estimated at least annually in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year for purposes of impairment testing if a quantitative analysis is performed.
Certain financial instruments are not measured at fair value but are recorded at carrying amounts approximating fair value based on their short-term nature or variable interest rate.
The fair value of the tranche B term loan is based on the most recently quoted market price for the outstanding debt instrument, adjusted for any known significant deviations in value.
Gains and losses related to changes in the market value of these contracts are reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) within shareholders' equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and reclassified to earnings in the same line item in the Consolidated Statements of Income and in the same period as the recognition of the underlying hedged transaction.
As of June 29, 2019 and September 29, 2018, we had outstanding cash flow hedge currency exchange contracts with gross notional U.S. dollar equivalent amounts of $35,412 and $39,856, respectively.
Upon netting offsetting contracts to sell foreign currencies against contracts to purchase foreign currencies, irrespective of contract maturity dates, the net notional U.S. dollar equivalent amount of contracts outstanding was $28,176 and $29,315 as of June 29, 2019 and September 29, 2018, respectively.
As of June 29, 2019, the net market value of the foreign currency exchange contracts was a net asset of $85, consisting of $350 in assets and $265 in liabilities.
As of September 29, 2018, the net market value of the foreign currency exchange contracts was a net asset of $816, consisting of $989 in assets and $173 in liabilities.
As a result, changes in the fair value of the interest rate swap are recorded in AOCI within shareholders' equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The gains and losses related to the changes in the market value of these derivative contracts are included in other income (expense), net in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
As of June 29, 2019 and September 29, 2018, we had outstanding foreign currency balance sheet derivative contracts with gross notional U.S. dollar equivalent amounts of $94,824 and $90,816, respectively.
Upon netting offsetting contracts by counterparty banks to sell foreign currencies against contracts to purchase foreign currencies, irrespective of contract maturity dates, the net notional U.S. dollar equivalent amount of contracts outstanding as of June 29, 2019 and September 29, 2018 was $27,833 and $28,271, respectively.
As of June 29, 2019 and September 29, 2018, the net market value of the foreign exchange balance sheet derivative contracts was a net liability of $225 and a net asset of $91, respectively.
During the nine months ended June 29, 2019, we incurred debt financing costs of $541 as a result of this amendment which were capitalized in current maturities of long-term debt, net and long-term debt, less current maturities, net in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
As of June 29, 2019, there was $80,391 of outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility which is included in long-term debt, less current maturities, net in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The Credit Agreement governing the Term Facility requires us to prepay outstanding term loans, subject to certain exceptions, depending on the leverage ratio with (a) up to 50% of the our annual Excess Cash Flow (as defined in the Credit Agreement) and (b) 100% of the net cash proceeds of (i) certain asset sales and casualty and condemnation events, subject to reinvestment rights and certain other exceptions; and (ii) any incurrence or issuance of certain debt, other than debt permitted under the Credit Agreement.
See Note 7 for additional information on the fair value of the tranche B term loan and the TEU debt.
During the nine months ended June 29, 2019, 231 stock options were granted at a weighted average fair value of $9.91.
During the nine months ended June 30, 2018, 245 stock options were granted at a weighted average fair value of $11.10.
The fair value of the restricted stock units and performance restricted stock units granted during the nine months ended June 29, 2019 and June 30, 2018 was $46.67 and $49.63, respectively, representing the market value of our shares as of the date of grant less the present value of estimated foregone dividends over the vesting period.
The effective tax rate for the nine months ended June 29, 2019 increased primarily due to certain discrete benefits in the prior year for the estimated impact of the Tax Act. Excluding the impact of certain discrete benefits in the prior year, the effective tax rate for the nine months ended June 29, 2019 decreased as compared to the same prior year period.
During the third quarter of fiscal year 2016, we issued 1,150 TEUs in a registered public offering primarily to finance the acquisition of PCB, to repay amounts outstanding under our existing revolving credit facility and to pay related costs, fees and expenses.
The fair value of the prepaid stock purchase contracts, net of underwriting discounts, commissions and other expenses, was recorded in additional paid-in capital in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The fair value of the senior amortizing note, net of underwriting discounts, commissions and other expenses, was split between current maturities of long-term debt, net and long-term debt, less current maturities, net in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Other expenses include direct and incremental costs related to the issuance of the TEUs. Unless converted earlier at the option of the holder, each prepaid stock purchase contract automatically settle on July 1, 2019.
On the automatic settlement date, a minimum of 1.9841 shares and a maximum of 2.3810 shares of our common stock, subject to adjustment based upon the applicable market value discussed below, will be delivered to the holder of each prepaid stock purchase contract at the settlement date.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017, certain holders of our TEUs elected to early convert the equity component on 473 of our outstanding TEUs at the minimum conversion rate of 1.9841 which resulted in the issuance of 939 shares of our common stock.
During the third quarter of fiscal year 2019, certain holders of our TEUs elected to early convert the equity component on 394 of our outstanding TEUs at the minimum conversion rate of 1.9841 which resulted in the issuance of 781 shares of our common stock.
Subsequent to the end of the third quarter of fiscal year 2019, on July 1, 2019, the remaining 283 outstanding TEUs were converted at the minimum conversion rate of 1.9841 which resulted in the issuance of approximately 560 shares of our common stock.
The value of the Capped Calls is settled with shares of our common stock, based on the approximate market value of our common stock at such time, and could be settled as the TEUs were early converted or settled upon expiration on July 1, 2019 (Capped Call Expiration).
During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017, we settled approximately 10% of the Capped Calls, which resulted in us receiving and retiring 12 shares of our common stock.
The Capped Calls will be automatically settled upon Capped Call Expiration in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019 with shares of our common stock based on the average market value of our common stock as defined in the Capped Call Agreements.
As of June 29, 2019, the range of shares of our common stock to be received for the outstanding Capped Calls was a minimum of 0 shares to a maximum of 268 shares, which will be realized if the average market value of our common stock as defined in the Capped Call Agreements is at or below $50.40 or at $57.97, respectively, upon Capped Call Expiration.
Using the treasury stock method, diluted earnings per share includes the potentially dilutive effect of common shares issued in connection with outstanding stock-based compensation options and grants.
The potentially dilutive effect of common shares issued in connection with outstanding stock options is determined based on the average market price for the period.
For diluted earnings per share, the TEUs are assumed to be settled at a conversion factor based on our daily volume-weighted average price per share of our common stock for the 20 consecutive trading days preceding the end of the current fiscal quarter not to exceed 2.3810 shares of common stock per TEU.
As a result, stock options to acquire 835 and 667 weighted common shares have been excluded from the diluted weighted average common shares outstanding calculation for the three months ended June 29, 2019 and June 30, 2018, respectively.
Stock options to acquire 812 and 548 weighted common shares have been excluded from the diluted weighted average common shares outstanding calculation for the nine months ended June 29, 2019 and June 30, 2018, respectively.
Giving pro forma effect to the issuance of the Notes on July 16, 2019, as of June 29, 2019 we would have had $350,000 in aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes outstanding, approximately $174,000 outstanding under our Tranche B term loan facility and no amounts drawn under our revolving credit facility.
See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for changes to our capital structure incurred subsequent to the end of the third quarter of fiscal year 2019.
If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on our variable rate indebtedness will increase even though the amount borrowed remains the same, and therefore net income and associated cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, will correspondingly decrease.


item2.txt
The following tables compare results of operations, separately identifying the estimated impact of currency translation, the acquisition of E2M in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and restructuring costs incurred in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.
See Notes 3, 16 and 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on the new revenue standard, restructuring and related costs, and the E2M acquisition, respectively.
Income from operations for the three and nine months ended June 29, 2019 increased 41.4% and 31.9%, respectively, primarily due to increased gross profit on higher revenue volume and the impact of the E2M acquisition, partially offset by higher compensation expense and acquisition-related expenses.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, the E2M acquisition, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, income from operations increased 36.2% and 31.4%, respectively.
Interest expense, net for the three and nine months ended June 29, 2019 increased primarily due to an increase in interest expense on the revolving credit facility drawn on in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 to fund the acquisition of E2M, which was partially offset by a reduction in interest expense related to lower balances on the tranche B term loan, as well as current year favorable effects of our interest rate swap.
The effective tax rate for the three months ended June 29, 2019 increased primarily due to higher earnings before tax and the reversal of a $1,297 discrete tax benefit originally recorded in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 related to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act) as a result of regulatory updates issued during the third quarter of fiscal year 2019.
See Notes 3, 16 and 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on the new revenue standard, restructuring and related costs, and the E2M acquisition, respectively.
Revenue for the three and nine months ended June 29, 2019 increased 27.8% and 23.3%, respectively, primarily driven by volume growth across all sectors from conversion of robust beginning-of-year backlog and the acquisition of E2M in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.
Excluding the impact of currency translation and the E2M acquisition, revenue increased 23.7% and 19.4%, respectively.
Gross profit for the three months ended June 29, 2019 increased 21.0% primarily due to higher revenue volume and the gross profit contribution from the E2M acquisition, partially offset by increased compensation expense.
Gross margin declined 1.7 percentage points primarily driven by increased compensation expense and lower gross margin contribution from product mix, partially offset by leverage on higher revenue volume, lower warranty expense and the favorable impact of currency translation.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, the E2M acquisition, and restructuring costs incurred in the prior year, gross profit increased 14.8% and gross margin declined 2.4 percentage points.
Income from operations for the nine months ended June 29, 2019 increased 146.1% primarily due to increased gross profit on higher revenue volume, partially offset by higher compensation and commissions expense.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, the E2M acquisition, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, income from operations increased 125.5%.
Revenue for the three months ended June 29, 2019 increased 6.6% primarily driven by growth in both the Sensors test sector from a multi-year contract with the U.S. Department of Defense and the Sensors industrial sector from strength in the energy market, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of currency translation.
Revenue for the nine months ended June 29, 2019 increased 3.4% primarily driven by growth in the Sensors test sector from a multi-year contract with the U.S. Department of Defense, growth in the Sensors position sector in the first half of the fiscal year and growth in the Sensors industrial sector from strength in the energy market, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of currency translation.
Selling and marketing expense for the three and nine months ended June 29, 2019 increased 1.2% and 2.1%, respectively, primarily driven by increased compensation from headcount additions to support sales growth, partially offset by the favorable impact of currency translation.
Income from operations for the three and nine months ended June 29, 2019 declined 6.8% and 8.0%, respectively, primarily due to increased compensation expense, the unfavorable impact of currency translation and higher professional fees, partially offset by increased gross profit on higher revenue volume.
The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to an increase in cash used by working capital associated with timing fluctuations from accounts receivable payments received and unbilled accounts receivable accruals, accounts payable payments, advanced payments received from customers, and inventory purchases, as well as a decrease in net income due to the remeasurement of our estimated deferred tax liabilities as a result of the Tax Act in fiscal year 2018.
The increase in cash used in investing activities was primarily due to the acquisition of E2M in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 as well as an increase in cash used to purchase property and equipment for continued strategic investments in the business.
See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for changes to our capital structure incurred subsequent to the end of the third quarter of fiscal year 2019.


item3.txt
On floating-rate investments, increases or decreases in market interest rates will increase or decrease future interest income, respectively.
On fixed-rate investments, increases or decreases in market interest rates do not impact future interest income but may decrease or increase the fair market value of the investments, respectively.


part2.txt
Our level and terms of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations and take advantage of new business opportunities and prevent us from meeting our obligations under our debt instruments.
In addition, the credit agreement that governs our senior secured credit facilities and the indenture that governs the Notes impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including limitations on our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness (including guarantee obligations); incur liens; engage in mergers, consolidations and certain other fundamental changes; dispose of assets; make advances, investments and loans; engage in sale and leaseback transactions; engage in certain transactions with affiliates; pay dividends, distributions and other payments in respect of capital stock; repurchase or retire capital stock, warrants or options; and engage in other actions that we may believe are advisable or necessary for our business.
If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness.
Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly.
Our senior secured credit facilities bear, and other indebtedness we may incur in the future may bear, interest at a variable rate.
As a result, at any given time interest rates on the senior secured credit facilities and any other variable rate debt could be higher or lower than current levels.
Although the credit agreement that governs our senior secured credit facilities and the indenture that governs the senior unsecured notes contain restrictions on incurring additional indebtedness and entering into certain types of other transactions, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions.
In addition, these restrictions also do not prevent us from incurring obligations, such as certain trade payables, that do not constitute indebtedness as defined under our debt instruments.


