item1.txt
The aforementioned revenue standards and amendments are required to be adopted for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2019.
Early adoption is permitted for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, and interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2018.
Lessees can forgo recognizing a right-of-use asset and lease liability with lease terms of 12 months or less on the balance sheet through accounting policy elections as long as the lease does not include options to purchase the underlying assets that are reasonably certain to be exercised.
The standard is required to be adopted for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2020.
The standard is required to be adopted for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2019.
For sales that include installation services, warranty obligations generally extend for a period of 12 to 24 months from the date of either shipment or acceptance based on the contract terms.
These assets were initially measured and recognized at amounts equal to the fair value determined as of the date of acquisition or purchase subject to changes in value only for foreign currency translation.
Periodically, these assets are tested for impairment by comparing their respective carrying values to the estimated fair value of the reporting unit or asset group in which they reside.
Fair value measurements of reporting units are estimated using an income approach involving discounted or undiscounted cash flow models that contain certain Level 3 inputs requiring management judgment, including projections of economic conditions and customer demand, revenue and margins, changes in competition, operating costs, working capital requirements and new product introductions.
Fair value measurements of the reporting units associated with our goodwill balances and our indefinite-lived intangible assets are estimated at least annually in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year for purposes of impairment testing if a quantitative analysis is performed.
Fair value measurements associated with our intangible assets, other long-lived assets and property and equipment are estimated when events or changes in circumstances such as market value, asset utilization, physical change, legal factors or other matters indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Certain financial instruments are not measured at fair value but are recorded at carrying amounts approximating fair value based on their short-term nature or variable interest rate.
2 The fair value of the tranche B term loan is based on the most recently quoted market price for the outstanding debt instrument, adjusted for any known significant deviations in value.
1 Net fair value of foreign exchange cash flow hedge assets or liabilities that could have been reported in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Currency exchange contracts utilized to maintain the functional currency value of expected financial transactions denominated in foreign currencies are designated as cash flow hedges.
Qualifying gains and losses related to changes in the market value of these contracts are reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (AOCI) within shareholders' equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and reclassified into earnings in the same period during which the underlying hedged transaction affects earnings.
Subsequent changes in the market value of ineffective currency exchange contracts are recognized as an increase or decrease in revenue in the Consolidated Statements of Income as that is the same line item in which the underlying hedged transaction is reported.
As of December 30, 2017 and September 30, 2017, we had outstanding cash flow hedge currency exchange contracts with gross notional U.S. dollar equivalent amounts of $44,890 and $29,136, respectively.
Upon netting offsetting contracts to sell foreign currencies against contracts to purchase foreign currencies, irrespective of contract maturity dates, the net notional U.S. dollar equivalent amount of contracts outstanding was $39,951 and $24,093 as of December 30, 2017 and September 30, 2017, respectively.
As of December 30, 2017, the net market value of the foreign currency exchange contracts was a net liability of $369, consisting of $151 in assets and $520 in liabilities.
As of September 30, 2017, the net market value of the foreign currency exchange contracts was a net liability of $478, consisting of $73 in assets and $551 in liabilities.
The amount recognized in earnings as a result of the ineffectiveness of cash flow hedges was less than $1 in each of the three months ended December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016.
The market value of the interest rate swap as of December 30, 2017 was an asset of $5,027.
As a result, changes in the fair value of the interest rate swap are recorded in AOCI within shareholders' equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
As of December 30, 2017 and September 30, 2017, we had outstanding foreign currency balance sheet derivative contracts with gross notional U.S. dollar equivalent amounts of $48,441 and $52,208, respectively.
Upon netting offsetting contracts by counterparty banks to sell foreign currencies against contracts to purchase foreign currencies, irrespective of contract maturity dates, the net notional U.S. dollar equivalent amount of contracts outstanding as of December 30, 2017 and September 30, 2017 was $14,990 and $14,762, respectively.
As of December 30, 2017 and September 30, 2017, the net market value of the foreign exchange balance sheet derivative contracts was a net liability of $21 and a net asset of $77, respectively.
Outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility were $5,000 and $0, as of December 30, 2017 and September 30, 2017, respectively, reported in short-term borrowings in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The Credit Agreement governing the Term Facility requires us to prepay outstanding term loans, subject to certain exceptions, depending on the leverage ratio with (a) up to 50% of the Company's annual Excess Cash Flow (as defined in the Credit Agreement) and (b) 100% of the net cash proceeds of (i) certain asset sales and casualty and condemnation events, subject to reinvestment rights and certain other exceptions; and (ii) any incurrence or issuance of certain debt, other than debt permitted under the Credit Agreement.
During the three months ended December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, we granted approximately 1,294 restricted stock units to officers and employees and 2 restricted stock units to employees, respectively.
The fair value of the restricted stock units granted during the three months ended December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016 was $51.78 and $47.73, respectively, representing the market value of our shares at the date of grant less the present value of estimated foregone dividends over the 
During the three months ended December 31, 2016, we issued 14 shares of our common stock to participants under the 2012 ESPP at a weighted average price per share of $37.53.
The weighted average expected long-term rate of return on plan assets used to determine the net periodic benefit cost for each of the three months ended December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016 was 5.5%.
During the third quarter of fiscal year 2016, we issued 1,150 TEUs in a registered public offering primarily to finance the acquisition of PCB, to repay amounts outstanding under our existing revolving credit facility and to pay related costs, fees and expenses.
We allocated the proceeds from the issuance of the TEUs between equity and debt based on the relative fair values of the respective components of each TEU.
The fair value of the prepaid stock purchase contracts, net of underwriting discounts, commissions and other expenses, was recorded in additional paid-in capital in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The fair value of the senior amortizing note, net of underwriting discounts, commissions and other expenses, was split between current maturities of long-term debt, net and long-term debt, less current maturities, net in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Underwriting discounts, commissions and other costs directly associated with the TEU-related debt will be amortized using the effective interest rate method over the three year term of the instrument.
On the automatic settlement date, a minimum of 1.9841 shares and a maximum of 2.3810 shares of our common stock, subject to adjustment based upon the applicable market value discussed below, will be delivered to the holder of each prepaid stock purchase contract at the settlement date.
The "applicable market value" is defined as the average of the daily volume-weighted average price of the common stock on each of the 20 consecutive trading days beginning on, and including, the 23rd scheduled trading day immediately preceding July 1, 2019.
The value of the Capped Calls is settled with shares of our common stock, based on the approximate market value of our common stock at such time, and may be settled as the TEUs are early converted or settled upon Capped Call Expiration.
Using the treasury stock method, diluted earnings per share includes the potentially dilutive effect of common shares issued in connection with outstanding stock-based compensation options and grants.
The potentially dilutive effect of common shares issued in connection with outstanding stock options is determined based on the average market price for the period.
For diluted earnings per share, the TEUs are assumed to be settled at a conversion factor based on our daily volume-weighted average price per share of our common stock for the 20 consecutive trading days preceding the end of the current fiscal quarter not to exceed 2.3810 shares of common stock per TEU.
Under the treasury stock method, shares associated with certain stock options have been excluded from the diluted weighted average shares outstanding calculation because the exercise of those options would lead to a net reduction in common shares outstanding or anti-dilution.
As a result, stock options to acquire 496 and 663 weighted common shares have been excluded from the diluted weighted average common shares outstanding calculation for the three months ended December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, respectively.
In the three months ended December 30, 2017, we recorded an immaterial adjustment to the severance and related expense reported in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017.
As of December 30, 2017, we have incurred a total of $1,964 of pre-tax expense, including $1,444 and $520 related to severance and facility closure costs, respectively.


item2.txt
The following table compares results of operations, separately identifying the estimated impact of currency translation and restructuring costs incurred in fiscal year 2018.
Revenue for the three months ended December 30, 2017 declined by 2.6% primarily due to a decrease in Test revenue, partially offset by revenue growth in our Sensors business and the favorable impact of currency translation.
Gross profit for the three months ended December 30, 2017 increased 6.1% primarily due to the prior year impact from the PCB acquisition driven by a fair value adjustment on acquired inventory of $7,724 and increased current year revenue volume in Sensors, partially offset by reduced revenue volume in Test.
Gross margin rate increased 3.2 percentage points primarily due to the prior year impact from the PCB acquisition driven by a fair value adjustment on acquired inventory and favorable leverage on increased Sensors revenue volume, partially offset by investments to support the Test project pipeline and unfavorable leverage on lower Test revenue volume.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, the prior year fair value adjustment on acquired PCB inventory, prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, gross profit declined 5.9% and the gross margin rate declined 0.6 percentage points.
General and administrative expense for the three months ended December 30, 2017 declined by 14.4% primarily due to prior year non-recurring China Code of Conduct investigation expenses of $1,976, prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses of $1,503, and decreased professional fees, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of currency translation.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses, prior year China investigation expenses and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, general and administrative expense decreased 1.0%.
Income from operations for the three months ended December 30, 2017 increased by 60.3% primarily due to the prior year impact from the PCB acquisition driven by a fair value adjustment on acquired PCB inventory of $7,724 and non-recurring PCB acquisition integration expenses of $1,688, prior year China investigation expenses of $1,976, increased gross profit from leverage on volume growth in Sensors, and prior year restructuring costs of $563, partially offset by decreased Test gross profit from unfavorable leverage on revenue.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, the prior year fair value adjustment on acquired PCB inventory, prior year non-recurring PCB acquisition integration expenses, prior year China investigation expenses, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, income from operations decreased 25.5%.
The increase in other income (expense), net for the three months ended December 30, 2017 was primarily driven by a decrease in losses on foreign currency transactions.
The following table compares results of operations for Test, separately identifying the estimated impact of currency translation and restructuring costs incurred in fiscal year 2018.
Revenue for the three months ended December 30, 2017 decreased by 9.9% primarily driven by lower equipment order volume in the first half of fiscal year 2017.
Selling and marketing expense for the three months ended December 30, 2017 increased by 4.1% primarily due to increased compensation expenses and the unfavorable impact of currency translation.
General and administrative expense for the three months ended December 30, 2017 declined by 14.3% primarily due to prior year China investigation expenses of $1,976 and increased professional fees, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of currency translation.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, prior year China investigation expenses, and restructuring costs, general and administrative expense decreased 1.4%.
Income from operations for the three months ended December 30, 2017 declined by 52.1% primarily due to the decrease in gross profit driven by lower equipment order volume in the first half of fiscal year 2017, partially offset by prior year China investigation expenses of $1,976.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, prior year China investigation expenses and restructuring costs, income from operations decreased 55.9%.
The following table compares results of operations for Sensors, separately identifying the estimated impact of currency translation and restructuring costs incurred in fiscal year 2018.
Revenue increased by 11.5% during the three months ended December 30, 2017 primarily driven by strong demand in the Sensors position sector, continued momentum from new revenue opportunities in the Sensors test sector, and the favorable impact of currency translation, partially offset by continued weakness in the Sensors industrial sector.
Gross profit increased by 45.7% and the gross margin rate increased 12.0 percentage points during the three months ended December 30, 2017 primarily due to the prior year fair value adjustment on acquired PCB inventory of $7,724, prior year non-recurring PCB acquisition integration expenses, leverage on increased revenue volume, the favorable impact of currency translation, and prior year restructuring costs.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, the prior year fair value adjustment on acquired PCB inventory of $7,724, prior year non-recurring PCB acquisition integration expenses, and prior year restructuring costs, gross profit increased 9.1% and the gross margin rate increased 0.2 percentage points.
General and administrative expense for the three months ended December 30, 2017 declined by 14.6% primarily driven by prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses of $1,503, prior year restructuring costs and a decrease in incentive compensation.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses and prior year restructuring costs, general and administrative expense decreased 0.5%.
Income (loss) from operations increased $12,314 in the three months ended December 30, 2017 primarily due to the prior year fair value adjustment on acquired PCB inventory of $7,724, prior year non-recurring PCB acquisition integration costs of $1,688, higher gross profit from leverage on increased revenue volume, and prior year restructuring costs of $563, partially offset by increased compensation expenses.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, the prior year fair value adjustment on acquired PCB inventory, prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, income from operations increased 23.1%.


item3.txt
On floating-rate investments, increases and decreases in market interest rates will increase or decrease future interest income, respectively.
On floating-rate debt, increases or decreases in market interest rates will increase or decrease future interest expense, respectively.
On fixed-rate investments, increases or decreases in market interest rates do not impact future interest income but may decrease or increase the fair market value of the investments, respectively.
On fixed-rate debt, increases or decreases in market interest rates do not impact future interest expense but may decrease or increase the fair market value of the debt, respectively.


part2.txt
Our Board of Directors approved, and on February 11, 2011 announced, a 2,000 share purchase authorization.
The share purchase authorization has no expiration date.
We made no share purchases during the first quarter of fiscal year 2018.
As of December 30, 2017, there were 438 shares available for purchase under the existing authorization.


