item1.txt
As described in Note 2, we adopted Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), followed by related amendments on September 30, 2018 under the modified retrospective transition method.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which requires lessees to recognize a right-of-use asset, representing the right to use the underlying asset for the lease term, and a lease liability on the balance sheet for all leases with terms greater than 12 months.
Lessees can forgo recognizing a right-of-use asset and lease liability with lease terms of 12 months or less on the balance sheet through accounting policy elections as long as the lease does not include options to renew or purchase the underlying assets that are reasonably certain to be exercised.
The aforementioned lease standards and amendments ("the new lease standard") are required to be adopted for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2020.
As of September 30, 2018, we recorded a cumulative-effect reduction to the opening balance of our fiscal year 2019 retained earnings of $6,227, net of tax, for the net deferral of previously recognized revenue and related cost of sales, partially offset by the capitalization and deferral of pre-contract costs.
A performance obligation is a promise in a contract to transfer a distinct good or service to the customer and is the unit of account under the new revenue standard.
Revenue is recognized when obligations under the terms of the contract with our customer are satisfied; generally this occurs with the transfer of control upon product shipment (as evidenced by shipment or delivery terms) or with the performance of the service.
The timing of revenue recognition, billings and cash collections results in billed accounts receivable, unbilled accounts receivable (contract assets) and advance payments from customers (contract liabilities).
These payments are recorded in advance payments from customers and other long-term liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets (current and non-current portions, respectively) and are liquidated as revenue is recognized.
Conversely, when billing occurs subsequent to revenue recognition for contracts recognized over time, balances are recorded in unbilled accounts receivable, net in our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
For sales that include installation services, warranty obligations generally extend for a period of 12 to 24 months from the date of either shipment or acceptance based on the contract terms.
These assets were initially measured and recognized at amounts equal to the fair value determined as of the date of acquisition or purchase subject to changes in value only for foreign currency translation.
Fair value measurements of reporting units are estimated using an income approach involving discounted or undiscounted cash flow models that contain certain Level 3 inputs requiring management judgment, including projections of economic conditions and customer demand, revenue and margins, changes in competition, operating costs, working capital requirements and new product introductions.
Fair value measurements of the reporting units associated with our goodwill balances and our indefinite-lived intangible assets are estimated at least annually in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year for purposes of impairment testing if a quantitative analysis is performed.
Certain financial instruments are not measured at fair value but are recorded at carrying amounts approximating fair value based on their short-term nature or variable interest rate.
2 The fair value of the tranche B term loan is based on the most recently quoted market price for the outstanding debt instrument, adjusted for any known significant deviations in value.
Gains and losses related to changes in the market value of these contracts are reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) within shareholders' equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and reclassified to earnings in the same line item in the Consolidated Statements of Income and in the same period as the recognition of the underlying hedged transaction.
As of December 29, 2018 and September 29, 2018, we had outstanding cash flow hedge currency exchange contracts with gross notional U.S. dollar equivalent amounts of $37,953 and $39,856, respectively.
Upon netting offsetting contracts to sell foreign currencies against contracts to purchase foreign currencies, irrespective of contract maturity dates, the net notional U.S. dollar equivalent amount of contracts outstanding was $22,804 and $29,315 as of December 29, 2018 and September 29, 2018, respectively.
As of December 29, 2018, the net market value of the foreign currency exchange contracts was a net asset of $235, consisting of $405 in assets and $170 in liabilities.
As of September 29, 2018, the net market value of the foreign currency exchange contracts was a net asset of $816, consisting of $989 in assets and $173 in liabilities.
The market value of the interest rate swap as of December 29, 2018 was an asset of $4,889.
As a result, changes in the fair value of the interest rate swap are recorded in AOCI within shareholders' equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The gains and losses related to the changes in the market value of these derivative contracts are included in other income (expense), net in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
As of December 29, 2018 and September 29, 2018, we had outstanding foreign currency balance sheet derivative contracts with gross notional U.S. dollar equivalent amounts of $130,780 and $90,816, respectively.
Upon netting offsetting contracts by counterparty banks to sell foreign currencies against contracts to purchase foreign currencies, irrespective of contract maturity dates, the net notional U.S. dollar equivalent amount of contracts outstanding as of December 29, 2018 and September 29, 2018 was $40,991 and $28,271, respectively.
As of December 29, 2018 and September 29, 2018, the net market value of the foreign exchange balance sheet derivative contracts was a net liability of $588 and a net asset of $91, respectively.
During the three months ended December 29, 2018, we incurred debt financing costs of $541 as a result of this amendment which were capitalized in current maturities of long-term debt, net and long-term debt, less current maturities, net in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
As of December 29, 2018, there was $80,391 of outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility which is included in long-term debt, less current maturities, net in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The Credit Agreement governing the Term Facility requires us to prepay outstanding term loans, subject to certain exceptions, depending on the leverage ratio with (a) up to 50% of the our annual Excess Cash Flow (as defined in the Credit Agreement) and (b) 100% of the net cash proceeds of (i) certain asset sales and casualty and condemnation events, subject to reinvestment rights and certain other exceptions; and (ii) any incurrence or issuance of certain debt, other than debt permitted under the Credit Agreement.
See Note 7 for additional information on the fair value of the tranche B term loan and the TEU debt.
During the three months ended December 29, 2018, 230 stock options were granted at a weighted average fair value of $9.89.
The fair value of the restricted stock units and performance restricted stock units granted during the three months ended December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017 was $45.80 and $51.78, respectively, representing the market value of our shares as of the date of grant less the present value of estimated foregone dividends over the vesting period.
The weighted average expected long-term rate of return on plan assets used to determine the net periodic benefit cost for each of the three months ended December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017 was 5.5%.
The fair value of the prepaid stock purchase contracts, net of underwriting discounts, commissions and other expenses, was recorded in additional paid-in capital in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The fair value of the senior amortizing note, net of underwriting discounts, commissions and other expenses, was split between current maturities of long-term debt, net and long-term debt, less current maturities, net in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
If converted prior to the automatic settlement date at the option of the holder, the minimum of 1.9841 shares of our common stock are delivered to the holder of each prepaid stock purchase contract.
On the automatic settlement date, a minimum of 1.9841 shares and a maximum of 2.3810 shares of our common stock, subject to adjustment based upon the applicable market value discussed below, will be delivered to the holder of each prepaid stock purchase contract at the settlement date.
The "applicable market value" is defined as the average of the daily volume-weighted average price of the common stock on each of the 20 consecutive trading days beginning on, and including, the 23rd scheduled trading day immediately preceding July 1, 2019.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017, certain holders of our TEUs elected to early convert the equity component on 473 of our outstanding TEUs at the minimum conversion rate of 1.9841 which resulted in the issuance of 939 shares of our common stock.
The value of the Capped Calls is settled with shares of our common stock, based on the approximate market value of our common stock at such time, and could be settled as the TEUs were early converted or settled upon expiration on July 1, 2019 (Capped Call Expiration).
During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017, we settled approximately 10% of the Capped Calls, which resulted in us receiving and retiring 12 shares of our common stock.
The Capped Calls will be automatically settled upon Capped Call Expiration with shares of our common stock based on the average market value of our common stock as defined in the Capped Call Agreements.
As of December 29, 2018, the range of shares of our common stock to be received for the outstanding Capped Calls was a minimum of 0 shares to a maximum of 268 shares, which will be realized if the average market value of our common stock as defined in the Capped Call Agreements is at or below $50.40 or at $57.97, respectively, upon Capped Call Expiration.
Using the treasury stock method, diluted earnings per share includes the potentially dilutive effect of common shares issued in connection with outstanding stock-based compensation options and grants.
The potentially dilutive effect of common shares issued in connection with outstanding stock options is determined based on the average market price for the period.
For diluted earnings per share, the TEUs are assumed to be settled at a conversion factor based on our daily volume-weighted average price per share of our common stock for the 20 consecutive trading days preceding the end of the current fiscal quarter not to exceed 2.3810 shares of common stock per TEU.
Under the treasury stock method, shares associated with certain stock options have been excluded from the diluted weighted average shares outstanding calculation because the exercise of those options would lead to a net reduction in common shares outstanding or anti-dilution.
As a result, stock options to acquire 930 and 496 weighted common shares have been excluded from the diluted weighted average common shares outstanding calculation for the three months ended December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017, respectively.
The allocation of purchase price consideration is considered preliminary as of December 29, 2018 with provisional amounts primarily related to inventory, intangible assets, advanced payments to customers and certain tax related items included as our allocation process has not been completed.


item2.txt
See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion of the acquisition of E2M.
See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion of the amendment to the Credit Agreement.
See Note 2 and Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the impact of this adoption on our Consolidated Income Statements and Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The following table compares results of operations, separately identifying the estimated impact of currency translation, the acquisition of E2M in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and restructuring costs incurred in fiscal year 2019.
ing the impact of currency translation, the E2M acquisition, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, gross profit increased 0.2% and the gross margin rate declined 1.5 percentage points.
Income from operations for the three months ended December 29, 2018 increased 8.9% primarily due to lower operating expenses and higher gross profit, partially offset by acquisition-related expenses of $761 and the E2M acquisition inventory fair value adjustment of $445.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, the E2M acquisition, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, income from operations increased 13.2%.
The increase in other income (expense), net for the three months ended December 29, 2018 was primarily driven by a relative decrease in losses on foreign currency transactions, an increase in rental income and proceeds from the sale of property and equipment.
The effective tax rate for the three months ended December 29, 2018 increased primarily due to certain discrete benefits of $25,378 in the prior year for the estimated impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act).
The current year also includes a certain discrete tax benefit of $1,293 related to the Tax Act. Excluding the impact of these discrete benefits, the effective tax rate for the three months ended December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017 would have been 17.8% and 17.9%, respectively.
Factors that increased the effective tax rate for the three months ended December 29, 2018 included impacts of the Tax Act, such as elimination of the domestic manufacturing deduction and the implementation of the global intangible low-taxed income provision.
Net income and diluted earnings per share for the three months ended December 29, 2018 decreased due to an increase in the effective tax rate, partially offset by higher income from operations.
Revenue for the three months ended December 29, 2018 increased 6.2% primarily driven by the acquisition of E2M in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and growth in service and equipment revenue, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of currency translation.
Excluding the impact of currency translation and the E2M acquisition, revenue increased 4.5%.
Gross profit for the three months ended December 29, 2018 increased 1.0% primarily due to favorable leverage on higher revenue volume and the gross profit contribution from the E2M acquisition, partially offset by increased compensation expense, continued focus on project execution and the E2M acquisition inventory adjustment.
Gross margin rate declined 1.6 percentage points primarily driven by increased compensation expense, continued focus on project execution and the E2M acquisition inventory adjustment, partially offset by favorable leverage on higher revenue volume and the favorable impact of currency translation.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, the E2M acquisition, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, gross profit declined 0.5% and gross margin rate declined 1.6 percentage points.
Revenue for the three months ended December 29, 2018 increased 2.6% primarily driven by continued growth in the Sensors position sector from strength in mobile hydraulics and industrial markets, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of currency translation.
Selling and marketing expense for the three months ended December 29, 2018 increased 3.3% primarily driven by increased compensation from headcount additions to support growth, partially offset by the favorable impact of currency translation.
Income from operations for the three months ended December 29, 2018 declined 2.3% primarily due to increased compensation expense, partially offset by favorable leverage on higher revenue volume.
The increase in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to an increase in deferred income taxes, partially offset by a decrease in net income due to the remeasurement of our estimated deferred tax liabilities as a result of the Tax Act in fiscal year 2018, as well as a decrease in cash used by prepaid expenses and payroll accruals.
Shareholders' equity decreased by $4,597 during the three months ended December 29, 2018 primarily due to a cumulative effect of accounting change reduction to our opening retained earnings balance of $6,227 related to the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard, ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).


item3.txt
On floating-rate investments, increases or decreases in market interest rates will increase or decrease future interest income, respectively.
On floating-rate debt, increases or decreases in market interest rates will increase or decrease future interest expense, respectively.
On fixed-rate investments, increases or decreases in market interest rates do not impact future interest income but may decrease or increase the fair market value of the investments, respectively.
On fixed-rate debt, increases or decreases in market interest rates do not impact future interest expense but may decrease or increase the fair market value of the debt, respectively.


part2.txt
Our Board of Directors approved, and on February 11, 2011 announced, a purchase authorization of 2,000 shares.
The share purchase authorization has no expiration date.
As of December 29, 2018, there were 438 shares available for purchase under the existing authorization.
In connection with the pricing of the tangible equity units (TEUs) sold in our public offering in fiscal year 2016, we purchased capped calls from third party banking institutions (Capped Calls) for $7,935.
On June 13, 2018, we amended the agreements with third party banking institutions for the outstanding Capped Calls (Capped Call Agreements) to modify the timing of settlement to be only upon expiration for all outstanding Capped Calls.


