fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
PCTEL, Inc. (“PCTEL”, the “Company”, “we”, “ours”, and “us”) delivers Performance Critical TELecom technology solutions to the wireless industry.
PCTEL’s Connected Solutions segment designs and manufactures precision antennas.
PCTEL antennas are deployed in small cells, enterprise Wi-Fi access points, fleet management and transit systems, and in network equipment and devices for the Industrial Internet of Things (“IIoT”).
Mobile operators, neutral hosts, and equipment manufacturers rely on PCTEL to analyze, design, and optimize next generation wireless networks.
All of the Company’s accounting and finance, human resources, information technology (“IT”) and legal functions are provided on a centralized basis through the corporate function.
PCTEL Connected Solutions designs and manufactures precision antennas.
Revenue growth in these markets is driven by the increased use of wireless communications and increased complexity occurring in these markets.
PCTEL antennas are primarily sold to original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) providers where they are designed into the customer’s solution.
PCTEL RF Solutions provides test tools that improve the performance of wireless networks globally, with a focus on LTE, public safety, and emerging 5G technologies.
PCTEL test equipment is sold directly to wireless carriers or to OEMs who integrate the Company’s products into their solutions which are then sold to wireless carriers.
Competitors for PCTEL’s test tool products include OEMs such as Anritsu, Berkley Varitronics, Digital Receiver Technology, and Rohde and Schwarz.
During the quarter ended June 30, 2017, the Company approved a plan to sell its Network Engineering Services business (“Engineering Services”) and shift its focus to research and development driven radio frequency (“RF”) products.
On July 31, 2017, the Company sold substantially all of the assets of the Company’s Engineering Services business to Gabe’s Construction Co., Inc. (“Gabe’s”) for a purchase price of $1.45 million.
The Engineering Services business provided design, testing, commissioning, optimization, and consulting services for cellular, Wi-Fi and public safety networks and was a reporting unit within the RF Solutions segment.
The disposition of Engineering Services qualified as a discontinued operation for reporting purposes due to the material significance of its historical results and because this disposition represented a strategic shift by the Company to focus on products.
See Note 5 for more information on discontinued operations.
The interim condensed consolidated financial statements are unaudited and reflect all adjustments of a normal recurring nature that are, in the opinion of management, necessary for a fair presentation of the interim period financial statements.
The condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2017 is derived from the audited financial statements as of December 31, 2017.
Certain amounts in the prior year have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.


item2.txt
No undue reliance should be placed on these forward-looking statements.
For the second quarter 2018, we recorded an operating loss of $1.6 million compared to an operating loss of $0.3 million in the second quarter 2017.
Revenues declined in the RF Solutions segment by $2.3 million or 21.9%, but revenues increased in the Connected Solutions segment by $1.1 million or 3.2%.
For the six months ended June 30, 2018, we recorded an operating loss of $2.8 million compared to an operating loss of $0.3 million during the same period in 2017.
PCTEL delivers Performance Critical TELecom technology solutions to the wireless industry.
We are a leading global supplier of wireless network antenna and testing solutions.
All of our accounting and finance, human resources, information technology (“IT”) and legal functions are provided on a centralized basis through the corporate function.
Generally, revenue growth for the Connected Solutions segment is driven by the increased use of wireless communications and increased complexity trends occurring in these markets.
PCTEL antennas are primarily sold to original equipment manufacturers (“OEM”) providers where they are designed into the customer’s solution.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
We are the subject of various pending or threatened legal actions in the ordinary course of our business.


