fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
Until the Reorganization, PCTEL operated in two segments for reporting purposes, Connected Solutions and RF Solutions.
The CODM assessed operating profits and identified assets for the Connected Solutions and RF Solutions segments for resource allocations.
The interim condensed consolidated financial statements are unaudited and reflect all adjustments of a normal recurring nature that are, in the opinion of management, necessary for a fair presentation of the interim period financial statements.
The condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2018 is derived from the audited financial statements as of December 31, 2018.
There were no significant changes in the Company’s significant accounting policies during the three months ended March 31, 2019.
Adjustments resulting from translation are included in accumulated other comprehensive loss, a separate component of stockholders’ equity.
Net foreign exchange losses resulting from foreign currency transactions included in other income, net was $57 and $69 for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2016-02, Leases (“Topic 842”), which amends existing guidance to require lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by long-term leases and to disclose additional quantitative and qualitative information about leasing arrangements.
Additional information and disclosures required by this new standard are contained in Note 10, 'Leases'.
2016-13 (ASU 2016-13) regarding ASC Topic 326, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses, which modifies the measurement of expected credit losses of certain financial instruments.
Cash equivalents are measured at fair value and investments are recognized at amortized cost in the Company’s financial statements.
Accounts receivable and other investments are financial assets with carrying values that approximate fair value due to the short-term nature of these assets.
Accounts payable is a financial liability with a carrying value that approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of these liabilities.
At March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the Company’s cash equivalents were invested in highly liquid AAA rated money market funds that are required to comply with Rule 2a-7 of the Investment Company Act of 1940.
The Company restricts its investments in AAA money market funds to those invested 100% in either short-term U.S. government agency securities or bank repurchase agreements collateralized by these same securities.
The fair values of these money market funds are established through quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (Level 1 inputs).
The Company’s cash in its foreign bank accounts is not insured.
Within the cash in foreign bank accounts, the Company had cash of $0.9 million and $0.6 million in China bank accounts at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.


item2.txt
Revenues decreased for the antenna product line due to lower revenues with Enterprise Wi-Fi applications and increased for the test and measurement due to sales of 5G products.
The gross profit of $8.7 million, increased by $0.8 million, or 10.1% compared to gross profit of $7.9M for the same period in 2018, due to a higher mix of test and measurement product revenues and due to an increase in the gross margin percentage for antenna products.
Primarily based on higher gross margins, we recorded a lower operating loss for the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to the first quarter 2018.
In order to understand our financial results, it is necessary to understand the impact on gross profit of the revenue mix between them.
The gross profit percentage increased by 5.8% for the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018 because of a higher ratio of revenues from test and measurement products and because of higher gross profits for antenna products.
The gross profit percentage for the antenna product line increased by 2.9% due to more favorable product mix and due to cost reductions.
The decrease in amortization expense was due to certain intangible assets being fully amortized during 2018.
We recorded income tax expense of $10 for the three months ended March 31, 2019, and an income tax benefit of $0.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018.


item3.txt



item4.txt
In designing and evaluating our disclosure controls and procedures, management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can only provide reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives.


part2.txt
Conducting business in foreign countries involves additional financial, operating, and regulatory risks.


