fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
PCTEL, Inc. (“PCTEL”, the “Company”, “we”, “ours”, and “us”) delivers Performance Critical TELecom technology solutions to the wireless industry.
PCTEL’s Connected Solutions segment designs and manufactures precision antennas.
PCTEL antennas are deployed in small cells, enterprise Wi-Fi access points, fleet management and transit systems, and in network equipment and devices for the Industrial Internet of Things (“IIoT”).
Mobile operators, neutral hosts, and equipment manufacturers rely on PCTEL to analyze, design, and optimize next generation wireless networks.
All of the Company’s accounting and finance, human resources, IT and legal functions are provided on a centralized basis through the corporate function.
PCTEL Connected Solutions designs and manufactures precision antennas.
PCTEL antennas are primarily sold to original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) providers where they are designed into the customer’s solution.
PCTEL RF Solutions provides test tools that improve the performance of wireless networks globally, with a focus on LTE, public safety, and emerging 5G technologies.
PCTEL test equipment is sold directly to wireless carriers or to OEMs who integrate the Company’s products into their solutions which are then sold to wireless carriers.
During the quarter ended June 30, 2017, the Company approved a plan to sell its Network Engineering Service business (“Engineering Services”) and shift its focus toward research and development driven radio frequency (“RF”) products.
On July 31, 2017, the Company sold substantially all of the assets of the Company’s Engineering Services business to Gabe’s Construction Co., Inc. (“Gabe’s”) for a purchase price of $1.45 million.
The Engineering Services business provided design, testing, commissioning, optimization, and consulting services for cellular, Wi-Fi and public safety networks and was a reporting unit within the RF Solutions segment.
Due to the significance of its historical results and because this disposition represented a strategic shift by the Company to focus on products, the disposition of Engineering Services also qualified as a discontinued operation for reporting purposes.
See Note 5 for more information on discontinued operations.
The condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2017 is derived from the audited financial statements as of December 31, 2017.
Certain amounts in the prior year have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
There were no changes in the Company’s significant accounting policies during the three months ended March 31, 2018.
See Note 13 related to Revenue from Contracts with Customers for additional disclosures related to revenue policies.
Adjustments resulting from translation are included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a separate component of shareholders’ equity.


item2.txt
No undue reliance should be placed on these forward-looking statements.
Our first quarter 2018 revenues decreased by $1.2 million, or 5.4% compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to lower revenues for the RF Solutions segment.
PCTEL delivers Performance Critical TELecom technology solutions to the wireless industry.
We are a leading global supplier of wireless network antenna and testing solutions.
All of our accounting and finance, human resources, IT and legal functions are provided on a centralized basis through the corporate function.
Revenue growth for the Connected Solutions segment is driven by the increased use of wireless communications and increased complexity trends occurring in these markets.
Revenue growth for the RF Solutions segment is driven by the implementation and roll out of new wireless technology standards (i.e., 3G to 4G, 4G to 5G, etc.
Expenses for the Connected Solutions segment were $0.3 million higher for the first quarter 2018 compared to the prior year period due to additional headcount and equipment required to support investments in growth areas.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



