fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
PCTEL, Inc. (“PCTEL”, the “Company”, “we”, “ours”, and “us”) delivers Performance Critical TELecom technology solutions to the wireless industry.
PCTEL is a leading global supplier of wireless network antenna and testing solutions.
PCTEL’s Connected Solutions segment designs and manufactures precision antennas.
PCTEL antennas are deployed in small cells, enterprise Wi-Fi access points, fleet management and transit systems, and in network equipment and devices for the Industrial Internet of Things (“IIoT”).
Mobile operators, neutral hosts, and equipment manufacturers rely on PCTEL to analyze, design, and optimize next generation wireless networks.
The CODM assessed operating profits and identified assets for the Connected Solutions and RF Solutions segments for resource allocations.
All of the Company’s accounting and finance, human resources, information technology (“IT”) and legal functions were provided on a centralized basis through the corporate function.
PCTEL Connected Solutions designs and manufactures precision antennas.
Revenue growth in these markets is driven by the increased use of wireless communications and increased complexity occurring in these markets.
PCTEL antennas are primarily sold to original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) providers where they are designed into the customer’s solution.
Competition in the antenna markets is fragmented.
PCTEL RF Solutions provides test tools that improve the performance of wireless networks globally, with a focus on LTE, public safety, and emerging 5G technologies.
PCTEL test equipment is sold directly to wireless carriers or to OEMs who integrate the Company’s products into their solutions which are then sold to wireless carriers.
During the quarter ended June 30, 2017, the Company approved a plan to sell its Network Engineering Services business (“Engineering Services”) and shift its focus to research and development driven radio frequency (“RF”) products.
On July 31, 2017, the Company sold substantially all of the assets of the Company’s Engineering Services business to Gabe’s Construction Co., Inc. (“Gabe’s”) for a purchase price of $1.45 million.
The Engineering Services business provided design, testing, commissioning, optimization, and consulting services for cellular, Wi-Fi and public safety networks and was a reporting unit within the RF Solutions segment.
The disposition of Engineering Services qualified as a discontinued operation for reporting purposes due to the material significance of its historical results and because this disposition represented a strategic shift by the Company to focus on products.
See Note 5 for more information on discontinued operations.


item2.txt
No undue reliance should be placed on these forward-looking statements.
For the third quarter 2018, we recorded an operating loss of $2.4 million compared to operating profit of $0.9 million in the third quarter 2017.
Revenues declined in the RF Solutions segment by $4.5 million or 27.6% and revenues declined in the Connected Solutions segment by $2.0 million or 3.8%.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we recorded an operating loss of $5.2 million compared to operating profit of $0.6 million during the same period in 2017.
PCTEL delivers Performance Critical TELecom technology solutions to the wireless industry.
We are a leading global supplier of wireless network antenna and testing solutions.
The Connected Solutions segment designs and manufactures precision antennas.
Mobile operators, neutral hosts, and equipment manufacturers rely on PCTEL to analyze, design, and optimize next generation wireless networks.
Our CODM assessed operating profits and identified assets for the Connected Solutions and RF Solutions segments for resource allocations.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
We are the subject of various pending or threatened legal actions in the ordinary course of our business.


