fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
The CODM assessed operating profits and identified assets for the Connected Solutions and RF Solutions segments for resource allocations.
The interim condensed consolidated financial statements are unaudited and reflect all adjustments of a normal recurring nature that are, in the opinion of management, necessary for a fair presentation of the interim period financial statements.
The condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2018 is derived from the audited financial statements as of December 31, 2018.
There were no significant changes in the Company’s significant accounting policies during the nine months ended September 30, 2019.
Adjustments resulting from translation are included in accumulated other comprehensive loss, a separate component of stockholders’ equity.
Net foreign exchange gains resulting from foreign currency transactions included in other income, net was $198 and $37 for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Net foreign exchange gains resulting from foreign currency transactions included in other income, net was $226 and $28 for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2016-02, Leases (“Topic 842”), which amends existing guidance to require lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by long-term leases and to disclose additional quantitative and qualitative information about leasing arrangements.
See Note 10 for additional information and disclosures required by this new standard.
2016-13 (ASU 2016-13) regarding ASC Topic 326, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses, which modifies the measurement of expected credit losses of certain financial instruments.
Cash equivalents are measured at fair value and investments are recognized at amortized cost in the Company’s financial statements.
Accounts receivable and other investments are financial assets with carrying values that approximate fair value due to the short-term nature of these assets.
Accounts payable is a financial liability with a carrying value that approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of these liabilities.
At September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the Company’s cash equivalents were invested in highly liquid AAA rated money market funds that are required to comply with Rule 2a-7 of the Investment Company Act of 1940.
The Company restricts its investments in AAA money market funds to those invested 100% in either short-term U.S. government agency securities or bank repurchase agreements collateralized by these same securities.
The fair values of these money market funds are established through quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (Level 1 inputs).
The Company’s cash in its foreign bank accounts is not insured.


item2.txt
No undue reliance should be placed on these forward-looking statements.
The gross profit of $10.6 million, increased by $3.9 million compared to the same period in 2018 due to both a higher product mix of test and measurement product line revenues and an increase in the gross margin percentage for antenna products.
Primarily based on higher gross profit margins, we recorded an operating income of $0.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019 compared to an operating loss of $2.4 million during the third quarter 2018.
Antenna product revenues decreased by $2.6 million or 5.1% to $47.6 million primarily due to lower revenues with enterprise Wi-Fi applications and small cell antennas.
Because of higher gross profit margins, we recorded an operating income of $1.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to an operating loss of $5.2 million for the same period in 2018.
PCTEL antenna are primarily sold to original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) providers where the antennas are designed into the customer’s solution.
Competitors for PCTEL’s test tool products include OEMs such as Anritsu, Berkley Varitronics, Digital Receiver Technology, and Rohde and Schwarz.
In connection with the Reorganization, the Board of Directors appointed a Chief Operating Officer who maintains regular contact with the CODM to discuss operating activities, financial results, forecasts, and plans for our businesses.
This Form 10-Q does not include segment reporting information; however, we have included revenues and gross profit for the two major product lines (antenna products and test and measurement products) because each product line has a significantly different gross profit profile.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Conducting business in foreign countries involves additional financial, operating, and regulatory risks.
All our Tianjin, China employees are represented by a labor union, and our employees in Beijing, China are represented by a separate labor union pursuant to the requirements of China’s National Labor Law.


