The Company evaluates the realizability of its deferred tax assets by tax-paying component and assesses the need for a valuation allowance on a quarterly basis. The Company evaluates the profitability of each tax-paying component on a historic cumulative basis and a forward-looking basis while performing this analysis. The Company evaluated all positive and negative evidence in concluding it was appropriate to release the majority of the valuation allowance against U.S. net deferred tax assets during fiscal year 2018. The Company maintains a U.S. valuation allowance related to the realizability of other state tax credits and net operating loss carry-forwards. The Company continues to maintain valuation allowances against net deferred tax assets in certain foreign tax-paying components as of June 30, 2019. On July 1, 2019, the Company completed the sale of its semiconductor cryogenics business that resulted in a taxable gain in the U.S. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company may record adjustments to its valuation allowance as it considers new evidence including updated forecasts of U.S. income and utilization of deferred tax assets that were previously expected to expire. 

You should read the MD&A in conjunction with our unaudited consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. In addition to historical information, the MD&A contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. You should read “Information Related to Forward-Looking Statements” below for a discussion of important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our expectations.

Information Related to Forward-Looking Statements

This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains statements that are, or may be considered to be, forward-looking statements within the meaning of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements that are not historical facts, including statements about our beliefs or expectations, are forward-looking statements. These statements may be identified by such forward-looking terminology as “expect,” “estimate,” “intend,” “believe,” “anticipate,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “continue,” “likely” or similar statements or variations of such terms. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements that relate to our future revenue, margins, costs, earnings, profitability, product development, demand, acceptance and market share, competitiveness, market opportunities and performance, levels of research and development, the success of our marketing, sales and service efforts, outsourced activities, operating expenses, anticipated manufacturing, customer and technical requirements, the ongoing viability of the solutions that we offer and our customers’ success, tax expenses, our management’s plans and objectives for our current and future operations and business focus, the expected benefits and other statements relating to 

our divestures and acquisitions, our adoption of the newly issued accounting guidance, the levels of customer spending, general economic conditions, the sufficiency of financial resources to support future operations, capital expenditures and future acquisitions, divestitures and other strategic transactions. Such statements are based on current expectations and involve risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, our performance or our achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such factors include the Risk Factors which are set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018, or the 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K and which are incorporated herein by reference , as updated and/or supplemented in subsequent filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof and are based on information currently and reasonably known to us. We do not undertake any obligation to release revisions to these forward-looking statements, which may be made to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or to reflect the occurrence or effect of anticipated or unanticipated events. Precautionary statements made herein should be read as being applicable to all related forward-looking statements wherever they appear in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Any additional precautionary statements made in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K should be read as being applicable to all related forward-looking statements whenever they appear in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.

We evaluate the realizability of our deferred tax assets by tax-paying component and assess the need for a valuation allowance on a quarterly basis. We evaluate the profitability of each tax-paying component on a historic cumulative basis and a forward-looking basis while performing this analysis. We evaluated all positive and negative evidence in concluding it was appropriate to release the majority of the valuation allowance against U.S. net deferred tax assets during fiscal year 2018. We maintain a U.S. valuation allowance related to the realizability of other state tax credits and net operating loss carry-forwards. We continue to maintain valuation allowances against net deferred tax assets in certain foreign tax-paying components as of June 30, 2019. On July 1, 2019, we completed the sale of our semiconductor cryogenics business that resulted in a taxable gain in the U.S. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019, we may record adjustments to our valuation allowance as we consider new evidence including updated forecasts of U.S. income and utilization of deferred tax assets that were previously expected to expire. 

