We have acquired, and expect in the future to acquire, additional businesses that we believe will complement or augment our existing businesses.
The integration process for our acquisitions is complex and may be costly and time consuming and include unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities.
We may have difficulty in developing, manufacturing and marketing the products of a newly acquired company, or in growing the business at the rate we anticipate.
In particular, as a result of our Atmel acquisition, we became involved with third-party claims, litigation and disputes related to the Atmel business.
Acquisitions may also result in charges (such as acquisition-related expenses, write-offs, restructuring charges, or future impairment of goodwill), contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, additional share-based compensation expense and other charges that adversely affect our operating results.
To fund our acquisition of Atmel, we used a significant portion of our cash balances, borrowed under our credit agreement and issued approximately 10.1 million shares of our common stock.Our strategic focus is on embedded control solutions, including general purpose and specialized microcontrollers, development tools and related software, analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products, wired and wireless connectivity products, memory products and technology licensing.
We provide highly cost-effective embedded control solutions that also offer the advantages of small size, high performance, extreme low power usage, wide voltage range operation, mixed signal integration and ease of development, thus enabling timely and cost-effective integration of our solutions by our customers in their end products.
We sell our products to a broad base of domestic and international customers across a variety of industries.
By owning wafer fabrication facilities and assembly and test operations, and by employing statistical process control techniques, we have been able to achieve and maintain high production yields.
This allows us to more fully leverage our process research and development costs and to deliver new products to market more rapidly.
We are committed to continuing our investment in new and enhanced products, including development systems, and in our design and manufacturing process technologies.The integration process for our acquisitions is complex and may be costly and time consuming and include unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities.
We may have difficulty in developing, manufacturing and marketing the products of a newly acquired company, or in growing the business at the rate we anticipate.
In particular, as a result of our Atmel acquisition, we became involved with third-party claims, litigation and disputes related to the Atmel business.
Acquisitions may also result in charges (such as acquisition-related expenses, write-offs, restructuring charges, or future impairment of goodwill), contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, additional share-based compensation expense and other charges that adversely affect our operating results.
To fund our acquisition of Atmel, we used a significant portion of our cash balances, borrowed under our credit agreement and issued approximately 10.1 million shares of our common stock.
These transactions are subject to a number of risks similar to those we face with our acquisitions including our ability to realize the expected benefits of any such transaction, to successfully market and sell any products resulting from such transactions or to successfully integrate any technology developed through such transactions.