During the quarter ended June 30, 2017, the Company approved a plan to sell its Network Engineering Services business (“Engineering Services”) and shift its focus to research and development driven radio frequency (“RF”) products.
The Company will continue to monitor and adjust prices as necessary and as market conditions permit.
At June 30, 2018, the Company’s short-term investments consisted of U.S. government agency bonds, AA or higher rated corporate bonds, and certificates of deposit.
The Company depreciates computer equipment over three to five years, office equipment, manufacturing and test equipment, and motor vehicles over five years, furniture and fixtures over seven years, and buildings over 30 years.
During the quarter ended June 30, 2018, the Company issued 60,988 shares of the Company’s stock with a fair value of $0.4 million.
PCTEL RF Solutions provides test tools that improve the performance of wireless networks globally, with a focus on LTE, public safety, and emerging 5G technologies.
The Company manages its balance sheet and cash flows centrally at the corporate level, with the exception of trade accounts receivable and inventory which is managed at the segment level.
The Company’s bond investments are recorded at the purchase price and carried at amortized cost.
Prepaid assets are stated at cost and are amortized over the useful lives (up to one year) of the assets.
The Company’s bond investments are recorded at the purchase price and carried at amortized cost.
The Company’s cash in its foreign bank accounts is not insured.
The Company depreciates computer equipment over three to five years, office equipment, manufacturing and test equipment, and motor vehicles over five years, furniture and fixtures over seven years, and buildings over 30 years.
The Company will continue to monitor and adjust prices as necessary and as market conditions permit.PCTEL maintains expertise in several technology areas in order to be competitive in the antenna market.
No undue reliance should be placed on these forward-looking statements.
U.S. Tariffs
Amortization expense within operating expenses was $0.1 million and $0.2 million during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The valuation allowance at June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 relates to net operating losses (“NOLs”) and credits.