Of the foreign cash amount, the Company had cash of $1.2 million and $1.0 million in China bank accounts at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
The expected life used for options granted was based on historical data of employee exercise performance.
The income and principal from the pre-refunded municipal bonds are secured by an irrevocable trust of U.S. Treasury securities.
See Note 5 for more information on discontinued operations.
Restricted stock units are primarily granted to foreign employees for long-term incentive purposes.
The Company expects to complete the transition for billing by June 30, 2018.
Such evaluations involve the application of significant judgment.
The dividend yield rate was calculated by dividing the Company’s annual dividend by the closing price on the grant date.
For ease in administering the issuance of stock awards, the Company holds back shares of vested restricted stock awards and short-term incentive plan stock awards for the value of the statutory withholding taxes.
The condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2017 is derived from the audited financial statements as of December 31, 2017.
Accounts payable is a financial liability with a carrying value that approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of these liabilities.
The Company grants restricted shares as employee incentives.
The Company manages its balance sheet and cash flows centrally at the corporate level, with the exception of trade accounts receivable and inventory which is managed at the segment level.During the quarter ended June 30, 2017, we approved a plan to sell our Network Engineering Services business (“Engineering Services”) and shift our focus toward research and development driven radio frequency (“RF”) products.
The balance has fluctuated with cash from operations, acquisitions and divestitures, payment of dividends and the repurchase of our common shares.
The tax benefit recorded for the three months ended March 31, 2018 differed from the statutory rate of 21% by 6% primarily due to permanent differences.
Revenue growth for the Connected Solutions segment is driven by the increased use of wireless communications and increased complexity trends occurring in these markets.
There have been no material changes in any of our critical accounting policies since December 31, 2017.