The Company records stock compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the vesting period of the applicable service-based restricted shares.
GAAP”) for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
The expected life for options granted is based on historical data of employee exercise performance.
The dividend yield rate is calculated by dividing the Company’s annual dividend by the closing price on the grant date.
The foreign currency exchange impact related to the repatriation of these funds did not have a material impact on the financial statements.
The unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements of the Company have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
The dividend yield rate was calculated by dividing the Company’s annual dividend by the closing price on the grant date.
The Company’s cash in U.S. banks is insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation up to the insurable limit of $250.
The Company recorded income tax expense of $6 and $23 for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively.
The Company’s cash in U.S. banks is insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation up to the insurable limit of $250.
During the first quarter 2016, the Company exited from its Colorado office in order to consolidate facility space and recorded restructuring expense for the remaining obligations under the lease, net of proceeds for a sublease.
The Company also elected the package of practical expedients permitted within the new standard, which among other things, allows the Company to carry forward historical lease classifications.transition of certain manufacturing activities to contract manufacturers.
Such statements constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
No undue reliance should be placed on these forward-looking statements.
Operating activities generated $4.1 million of cash during the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
Revenues increased for the test and measurement products due to sales of 5G products for early deployment.
Such purchases may be made from time to time at prevailing prices in the open market, by block purchases, in private transactions or otherwise.David A. Neumann