item1.txt
Significant intercompany account balances and transactions have been eliminated.
The terms "MTS," "we," "us," "the Company" or "our" in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, unless the context otherwise requires, refer to MTS Systems Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), followed by related amendments on September 30, 2018 under the modified retrospective transition method.
Our new revenue recognition accounting policy and disclosures relative to this guidance are included in Note 3.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued ASU No.
Early adoption is permitted.
2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740), Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory, which requires companies to account for the income tax effects of intercompany sales and transfers of assets other than inventory when the transfer occurs.
We adopted the new standard on a modified retrospective basis for the annual period ending September 28, 2019, including interim periods within that annual period.
A performance obligation is a promise in a contract to transfer a distinct good or service to the customer and is the unit of account under the new revenue standard.
The percentage applied reflects our historical warranty claims experience over the preceding 12-month period.
Warranty provisions are also recognized for certain unanticipated product claims that are individually significant.
These financial instruments include cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and short-term borrowings.
The swap agreement expires April 3, 2021.
The market value of the interest rate swap as of December 29, 2018 was an asset of $4,889.
We also use foreign currency derivative contracts to maintain the functional currency value of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional foreign currencies.
The ABR for ABR Term Loans shall not be less than 1.75% per annum.
The Applicable Rate for any ABR Revolving Loans will be based upon the leverage ratio applicable on such date.


item2.txt
The size of the facility was increased to finance the purchase of E2M.
The current year also includes a certain discrete tax benefit of $1,293 related to the Tax Act.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, the E2M acquisition, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, gross profit declined 0.5% and gross margin rate declined 1.6 percentage points.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, revenue increased 3.9%.
Income from operations for the three months ended December 29, 2018 declined 2.3% primarily due to increased compensation expense, partially offset by favorable leverage on higher revenue volume.
These were partially offset by an increase in cash used by working capital associated with timing fluctuations from inventory purchases, accounts payable payments, billings and advanced payments from customers, accounts receivable payments received and unbilled accounts receivable accruals.
We had cash and cash equivalents of $70,438 as of December 29, 2018.
Of this amount, $6,751 was located in North America, $26,235 in Europe and $37,452 in Asia.
In accordance with our investment policy, we place cash equivalent investments with issuers who have high-quality investment credit ratings.


item3.txt
We have operational procedures to mitigate these non-functional currency exposures.
On floating-rate investments, increases or decreases in market interest rates will increase or decrease future interest income, respectively.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1A.
The share purchase authorization has no expiration date.


