item1.txt
Item 1.
Financial Statements The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of MTS Systems Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), followed by related amendments, on September 30, 2018 under the modified retrospective transition method.
The new lease standard requires enhanced disclosures regarding the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from a company's leases.
Adoption of the new lease standard is required for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2020.
See Note 3 for our new revenue recognition accounting policy and disclosures relative to this guidance.
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
A performance obligation is a promise in a contract to transfer a distinct good or service to the customer and is the unit of account under the new revenue standard.
Contract balances are classified as assets or liabilities on a contract-by-contract basis at the end of each reporting period.
inception.
There are no significant instances where variable consideration is constrained and not recorded at the initial time of sale.
The percentage applied reflects our historical warranty claims experience over the preceding 12-month period.
Warranty provisions are also recognized for certain unanticipated product claims that are individually significant.
1 Based on observable market transactions of spot currency rates and forward currency rates on equivalently-termed instruments.
Fair value measurements associated with our intangible assets, other long-lived assets and property and equipment are estimated when events or changes in circumstances such as market value, asset utilization, physical change, legal factors or other matters indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
These financial instruments include cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, unbilled accounts receivable, accounts payable and short-term borrowings.


item2.txt
As of September 29, 2018, we had 3,400 employees and revenue of $778,032 for fiscal year 2018.
The size of the Revolving Credit Facility was increased to finance the purchase of E2M.
The decrease in the effective income tax rate was primarily due to the implementation of the lower 21% U.S. statutory rate for fiscal year 2019 as compared to the blended statutory rate of 24.5% effective in fiscal year 2018.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, the E2M acquisition, and restructuring costs incurred in the prior year, gross profit increased 14.8% and gross margin declined 2.4 percentage points.
The following tables compare results of operations for Sensors, separately identifying the estimated impact of currency translation.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, revenue increased 8.9%.
General and administrative expense for the three and nine months ended June 29, 2019 increased 20.0% and 8.5%, respectively, primarily driven by higher professional fees and compensation expense.
This decrease was partially offset by a reduction in cash used by deferred income taxes due to the Tax Act in fiscal year 2018, an increase in cash provided by other assets and liabilities related to accrued project costs, and a decrease in cash used by payroll-related accruals.
Of this amount, $21,623 was located in North America, $28,601 in Europe and $25,511 in Asia.


item3.txt
We have operational procedures to mitigate these non-functional currency exposures.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1A.
If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness.
Our senior secured credit facilities bear, and other indebtedness we may incur in the future may bear, interest at a variable rate.


