item1.txt
Financial Statements The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of MTS Systems Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
We anticipate the revenue recognition methodology may change for certain products and contracts.
The standard is required to be adopted for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2020.
The amendment is to be applied using either a modified retrospective approach, which includes a number of optional practical expedients, with early adoption permitted.
We are currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this guidance will have on our financial condition, results of operations and disclosures.
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740), Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory, which requires companies to account for the income tax effects of intercompany sales and transfers of assets other than inventory when the transfer occurs.
Assets held under capital leases, consisting of machinery and equipment, are recorded at the present value of minimum lease payments and are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated life of the asset or the lease term.
2 Based on London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) and spot rates.
See Note 8 for additional information on debt instruments.
The effective portion of the cash flow hedges represents the change in fair value of the hedge that offsets the change in the functional currency value of the hedged item.
The maximum remaining maturity of any forward or optional contract as of March 31, 2018 was 1.9 years.
The interest rate swap has been designated as a cash flow hedge.
As of March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017, the net market value of the foreign exchange balance sheet derivative contracts was a net liability of $235 and a net asset of $77, respectively.
The primary categories of borrowing include Alternate Base Rate (ABR) Borrowing (ABR Term Loans and ABR Revolving Loans), Swingline Loans and Eurocurrency Borrowing (each as defined in the Credit Agreement).


item2.txt
MTS Systems Corporation is a leading global supplier of high performance test systems and sensors.
We believe these competitive advantages position us well in both the test and sensors markets to deliver profitable growth in the years ahead.
These actions include the transfer of certain production operations in China to a contract manufacturing partner in fiscal year 2018.
See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion of restructuring initiatives.
As a result of the PCB acquisition, we incurred certain non-recurring costs during fiscal year 2017 including acquisition integration costs and a fair value adjustment on acquired PCB inventory (PCB acquisition inventory adjustment).
Sensors revenue increased $11,958 and $19,764, respectively, primarily driven by continued momentum from new opportunities in the Sensors test sector, along with continued growth in the Sensors position sector and broad demand across the remaining Sensors sectors.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, revenue decreased 6.0% and 5.3%, respectively.
Gross margin rate declined 1.7 percentage points primarily due to the lower contribution from product mix, unfavorable leverage on lower Test revenue volume, the impact of higher warranty expense, and the unfavorable impact of currency translation, partially offset by leverage on increased Sensors revenue volume.
The effective tax rate for the six months ended March 31, 2018 decreased primarily due to certain discrete benefits of $25,378 for the estimated impact of the Tax Act.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, prior year China investigation expenses, and current year restructuring costs, general and administrative expense increased 8.6% and 3.2%, respectively.
Gross profit for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased 19.0% primarily due to increased revenue volume and the favorable impact of currency translation.


item3.txt
We have operational procedures to mitigate these non-functional currency exposures.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1A.
Our Board of Directors approved, and on February 11, 2011 announced, a 2,000 share purchase authorization.


