item1.txt
The terms "MTS," "we," "us," "the Company" or "our" in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, unless the context otherwise requires, refer to MTS Systems Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), followed by related amendments on September 30, 2018 under the modified retrospective transition method.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued ASU No.
The new guidance requires enhanced disclosures regarding the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from a company's leases.
Adoption of the new lease standard is required for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2020.
2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740), Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory, which requires companies to account for the income tax effects of intercompany sales and transfers of assets other than inventory when the transfer occurs.
A performance obligation is a promise in a contract to transfer a distinct good or service to the customer and is the unit of account under the new revenue standard.
In situations when our contract includes distinct goods or services that are substantially the same and have the same pattern of transfer to the customer over time, they are recognized as a series of distinct goods or services.
Contract balances are classified as assets or liabilities on a contract-by-contract basis at the end of each reporting period.
inception.
These financial instruments include cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, unbilled accounts receivable, accounts payable and short-term borrowings.
As a result of this agreement, every month we pay fixed interest at 1.256% in exchange for interest received at one month U.S. LIBOR.
The market value of the interest rate swap as of March 30, 2019 was an asset of $3,684.
We also use foreign currency derivative contracts to maintain the functional currency value of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional foreign currencies.
as defined in the Credit Agreement.
The Applicable Rate for any ABR Revolving Loans will be based upon the leverage ratio applicable on such date.
During the three and six months ended March 30, 2019, commitment fees incurred totaled $52 and $124, respectively.


item2.txt
On November 21, 2018, we acquired E2M Technologies B.V. (E2M) for a cash purchase price of $80,287.
The size of the Revolving Credit Facility was increased to finance the purchase of E2M.
In fiscal year 2019, we adopted Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No.
Excluding the impact of currency translation and E2M expenses, selling and marketing expense increased 10.6% and 5.5%, respectively.
The current year also includes a certain discrete tax benefit of $1,293 related to the Tax Act.
The following tables compare results of operations for Sensors, separately identifying the estimated impact of currency translation.
General and administrative expense for the three months ended March 30, 2019 increased 12.6% primarily driven by higher compensation expense.
In accordance with our investment policy, we place cash equivalent investments with issuers who have high-quality investment credit ratings.
As of March 30, 2019, our capital structure was comprised of $31,632 in short-term debt, $443,206 in long-term debt and $485,054 in shareholders' equity.
The Credit Agreement also contains financial covenants, including the ratio of consolidated total indebtedness to adjusted consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (Adjusted EBITDA), as defined in the Credit Agreement, as well as the ratio of Adjusted EBITDA to consolidated interest expense.


item3.txt
We have operational procedures to mitigate these non-functional currency exposures.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1.


