fls.txt
In addition, certain statements in our future filings with the SEC, in press releases, and in oral and written statements made by us or with our approval that are not statements of historical fact constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Act.


item1.txt
Significant intercompany account balances and transactions have been eliminated.
The terms "MTS," "we," "us," the "Company" or "our" in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, unless the context otherwise requires, refer to MTS Systems Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
We have prepared the interim unaudited consolidated financial statements included herein pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States (U.S.) Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP).
We have a 5-4-4 week, quarterly accounting cycle with our fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to September 30.
In December 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-20, Technical Corrections and Improvements to Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which amends ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), providing thirteen corrections and improvements to the new revenue standard.
The new standards and amendments may be adopted retrospectively for all periods presented, or adopted using a modified retrospective approach.
We currently anticipate utilizing the modified retrospective approach as our method of adoption.
Lessees can forgo recognizing a right-of-use asset and lease liability with lease terms of 12 months or less on the balance sheet through accounting policy elections as long as the lease does not include options to purchase the underlying assets that are reasonably certain to be exercised.
The standard is required to be adopted for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2020.
The amendment is to be applied using a modified retrospective approach, which includes a number of optional practical expedients, with early adoption permitted.
Current guidance requires companies to defer the income tax effects of intercompany transfers of assets until the asset has been sold to an outside party or otherwise recognized.
The amendment is to be applied using a modified retrospective approach.
Sales of our products and systems are subject to limited warranty obligations that are included in customer contracts.
Certain products offered in our Sensors segment include a lifetime warranty.
Under the terms of these warranties, we are obligated to repair or replace any components or assemblies deemed defective due to workmanship or materials.


item2.txt
Our testing hardware and software solutions help customers accelerate and improve design, development and manufacturing processes and are used for determining the mechanical behavior of materials, products and structures.
Our high performance sensors provide controls for a variety of applications measuring acceleration, position, vibration, motion, pressure, force and sound.
Our desire is to be the innovation leader in creating test and measurement solutions and to provide total customer satisfaction.
We believe we can create value for our customers by helping to enhance the precision, improve the reliability and create superior safety for their products, while reducing the delivery time to market for their products.
Our competitive advantages include our proprietary technology and advanced application expertise, our expansive global footprint with long-term customer relationships, our large installed base of testing equipment and our expanded presence in the rapidly growing sensors market.
•Adapt our industry-leading ground vehicle testing applications to align with emerging trends in vehicle electrification, autonomous vehicles, and simulation.
We believe that our business model supports our growth objectives, provided that we continue to move aggressively to build our infrastructure, expand our offerings and execute on opportunities with our key customers around the world.
In order to accelerate our revenue growth over the next five years, investments in infrastructure, sales support and field service capacity and capability are essential.
Approximately 70% of our revenue has historically been derived from customers outside of the U.S. Our financial results are principally exposed to changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the Euro, the Japanese yen and the Chinese yuan.


item3.txt
We have operational procedures to mitigate these non-functional currency exposures.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1A.
The risks described below and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K are not the only risks we face.


