Item 2.
“Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.”

Dividends

On August 25, 2018, our Board of Directors increased the quarterly cash dividend rate on our common stock from $.570 per share to $.685 per share, for an annualized cash dividend rate of $2.740 per share, which was our seventeenth consecutive annual increase in our quarterly cash dividend rate.
Our annualized cash dividend rate in fiscal 2018 was $2.280 per share.
There can be no assurances that our annualized cash dividend rate will continue to increase.
Quarterly cash dividends are typically paid in March, June, September and December.
We currently expect that cash dividends will continue to be paid in the near future, but we can give no assurances concerning payment of future dividends.
The declaration of dividends and the amount thereof will depend on a number of factors, including our financial condition, capital requirements, cash flows, results of operations, future business prospects and other factors our Board of Directors may deem relevant.
Capital Structure and Resources


We were in compliance with the covenants in the 2018 Credit Agreement at September 28, 2018, including the covenant requiring that we not permit our ratio of consolidated total indebtedness to total capital, each as defined in the 2018 Credit Agreement, to be greater than 0.65 to 1.00.
At September 28, 2018, we had no borrowings outstanding under the 2018 Credit 


Agreement but we had $290 million in borrowings outstanding under our commercial paper program that was supported by the 2018 Credit Facility.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements


•Any obligation under certain guarantee contracts;

•A retained or contingent interest in assets transferred to an unconsolidated entity or similar arrangement that serves as credit, liquidity or market risk support to that entity for such assets;

•Any obligation, including a contingent obligation, under certain derivative instruments; and

•Any obligation, including a contingent obligation, under a material variable interest in an unconsolidated entity that is held by, and material to, the registrant, where such entity provides financing, liquidity, market risk or credit risk support to the registrant, or engages in leasing, hedging or research and development services with the registrant.
As of September 28, 2018, we were not participating in any material transactions that generated relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, including variable interest entities, and we did not have any material retained or contingent interest in assets as defined above.
As of September 28, 2018, we did not have material financial guarantees or other contractual commitments that we believe are reasonably likely to adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, and we were not a party to any related party transactions that materially affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
Due to our downsizing of certain operations pursuant to acquisitions, divestitures, restructuring plans or otherwise, certain properties leased by us have been sublet to third parties.
In the event any of these third parties vacates any of these premises, we would be legally obligated under master lease arrangements.
We believe that the financial risk of default by such sublessees is individually and in the aggregate not material to our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
Commercial Commitments and Contractual Obligations 


In connection with the Merger Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby, we have a contractual obligation to issue 1.30 shares of our common stock for each share of L3 common stock outstanding at closing of the pending merger, and we expect to incur other expenses, such as transaction costs, other payments required as a result of the merger and integration and post-closing restructuring costs.
See Note R — Subsequent Events in the Notes for further information.
In addition, we may have obligations under other contractual arrangements that are accelerated or otherwise impacted as a result of the merger.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES


Revenue Recognition

A significant portion of our business is derived from development and production contracts.
Revenue and profit related to development and production contracts are recognized over time, typically using the POC cost-to-cost method of revenue recognition, whereby we measure our progress toward completion of performance obligations based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to estimated costs at completion under the contract.
Because costs incurred represent work performed, we believe this method best depicts the transfer of control to the customer.
We determine the transaction price for each contract based on our best estimate of the consideration we expect to receive, and this includes assumptions regarding variable consideration, such as award and incentive fees.
These variable amounts generally are awarded upon achievement of certain negotiated performance metrics, program milestones or cost targets and can be based upon customer discretion.
We include such estimated amounts in the transaction price to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is resolved.
The reduction in benefit to operating income from net EAC adjustments in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to lower net risk retirements.
We also recognize revenue from contracts with multiple performance obligations.
For these contracts, we allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation based on the relative standalone selling price of the good or service underlying each performance obligation.
The standalone selling price represents the amount for which we would sell the good or service to a customer on a standalone basis (i.e., not sold as bundled sale with any other products or services).
The allocation of transaction price among separate performance obligations may impact the timing of revenue recognition but will not change the total revenue recognized on the contract.
Our contracts with the U.S. Government, including foreign military sales contracts, are subject to the FAR and the prices of our contract deliverables are typically based on our estimated or actual costs plus a reasonable profit margin.
As a result, the standalone selling prices of the goods and services in these contracts are typically equal to the selling prices stated in the contract, thereby, eliminating the need to allocate (or reallocate) the transaction price to the multiple performance obligations.
In our non-U.S. Government contracts, we also generally use the expected cost plus a margin approach to determine standalone selling price.
In addition, we determine standalone selling price for certain contracts that are commercial in nature based on observable selling prices.
In determining the appropriate margin under the cost plus margin approach, we consider historical margins on similar products sold to similar customers or within similar geographies where objective evidence is available.
We may also consider our cost structure and pricing objectives, the nature of the proposal, the effects of customization of pricing, our practices used to establish pricing of bundled products, the expected technological life of the product, margins earned on similar contracts with different customers and other factors to determine the appropriate margin.
Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Standards

Accounting standards that have been recently issued, but are not yet effective for us, are described in Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards in the Notes, which describes the potential impact that these standards are expected to have on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS

This Report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, as well as assumptions that may not materialize or prove to be correct, which could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements.
All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, statements concerning: our plans, strategies and objectives for future operations; new products, systems, technologies, services or developments; future economic conditions, performance or outlook; future political conditions; the outcome of contingencies; the potential level of share repurchases, dividends or pension contributions; potential acquisitions or divestitures; the value of contract awards and programs; expected cash flows or capital expenditures; our beliefs or expectations; activities, events or developments that we intend, expect, project, believe or anticipate will or may occur in the future; and assumptions underlying any of the foregoing.
Forward-looking statements may be identified by their use of forward-looking terminology, such as “believes,” “expects,” “may,” “should,” “would,” “will,” “intends,” “plans,” “estimates,” “anticipates,” “projects” and similar words or expressions.
You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect our management’s opinions only as of the date of filing of this Report and are not guarantees of future performance or actual results.
Forward-looking statements are made in reliance on the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
The following are some of the factors we believe could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical results or our current expectations or projections:

•We depend on U.S. Government customers for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of these relationships, a reduction in U.S. Government funding or a change in U.S. Government spending priorities could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
•We depend significantly on U.S. Government contracts, which often are only partially funded, subject to immediate termination, and heavily regulated and audited.
The termination or failure to fund, or negative audit findings for, one or 


more of these contracts could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
•We could be negatively impacted by a security breach, through cyber attack, cyber intrusion, insider threats or otherwise, or other significant disruption of our IT networks and related systems or of those we operate for certain of our customers.
•The U.S. Government’s budget deficit, the national debt and sequestration, as well as any inability of the U.S. Government to complete its budget process for any government fiscal year and consequently having to operate on funding levels equivalent to its prior fiscal year pursuant to a “continuing resolution” or shut down, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
•The level of returns on defined benefit plan assets, changes in interest rates and other factors could affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future periods.
•We enter into fixed-price contracts that could subject us to losses in the event of cost overruns or a significant increase in inflation.
•We use estimates in accounting for many of our programs, and changes in our estimates could adversely affect our future financial results.
•We derive a significant portion of our revenue from international operations and are subject to the risks of doing business internationally, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates.
•Our reputation and ability to do business may be impacted by the improper conduct of our employees, agents or business partners.
•We may not be successful in obtaining the necessary export licenses to conduct certain operations abroad, and Congress may prevent proposed sales to certain foreign governments.
•Our future success will depend on our ability to develop new products, systems, services and technologies that achieve market acceptance in our current and future markets.
•We participate in markets that are often subject to uncertain economic conditions, which makes it difficult to estimate growth in our markets and, as a result, future income and expenditures.
•We cannot predict the consequences of future geo-political events, but they may adversely affect the markets in which we operate, our ability to insure against risks, our operations or our profitability.
•Strategic transactions, including acquisitions and divestitures, involve significant risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
•Disputes with our subcontractors or the inability of our subcontractors to perform, or our key suppliers to timely deliver our components, parts or services, could cause our products, systems or services to be produced or delivered in an untimely or unsatisfactory manner.
•Third parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future that we are infringing directly or indirectly upon their intellectual property rights, and third parties may infringe upon our intellectual property rights.
•The outcome of litigation or arbitration in which we are involved from time to time is unpredictable, and an adverse decision in any such matter could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
•We face certain significant risk exposures and potential liabilities that may not be covered adequately by insurance or indemnity.
•Changes in our effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on our results of operations.
•Our level of indebtedness and our ability to make payments on or service our indebtedness and our unfunded defined benefit plans liability may adversely affect our financial and operating activities or our ability to incur additional debt.
•A downgrade in our credit ratings could materially adversely affect our business.
•Unforeseen environmental issues could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
•We have significant operations in locations that could be materially and adversely impacted in the event of a natural disaster or other significant disruption.
•Some of our workforce is represented by labor unions, so our business could be harmed in the event of a prolonged work stoppage.
•We must attract and retain key employees, and any failure to do so could seriously harm us.
Additional details and discussions concerning some of the factors that could affect our forward-looking statements or future results are set forth in our Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K under Item 1A.
“Risk Factors” and in Part II.
Item 1A.
“Risk Factors” in this Report.
The foregoing list of factors and the factors set forth in Item 1A.
“Risk Factors” included in our Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K and in Part II.
Item 1A.
“Risk Factors” in this Report are not exhaustive.
Additional risks and uncertainties not 


known to us or that we currently believe not to be material also may adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
Should any risks or uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
The forward-looking statements contained in this Report are made as of the date of filing of this Report, and we disclaim any intention or obligation, other than imposed by law, to update or revise any forward-looking statements or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or developments or otherwise.
For further information concerning risk factors see Part II.
Item 1A.
“Risk Factors” in this Report.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities





Sales of Unregistered Equity Securities

During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we did not issue or sell any unregistered equity securities.
