Item 4.
Controls and Procedures.
migrating certain processes to our shared services organizations, formalizing policies and procedures, improving segregation of duties and increasing monitoring controls.
In addition, when we acquire new businesses, we incorporate our controls and procedures into the acquired business as part of our integration activities.
We are continuing our implementation of a new income tax provision software designed to enhance process stability and further facilitate the computation and recording of tax provisions for our U.S. and international entities.
We are also continuing the multi-year, phased implementation of a new core enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system in certain business units, which we expect to reduce the number of ERP systems across the Company and enhance our system of internal control over financial reporting.
We expect the initial implementation of the new core ERP system in each affected business unit to involve changes to related processes that are part of our system of internal control over financial reporting and to require testing for effectiveness and potential further changes as implementation progresses.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we successfully completed the initial implementation of the new core ERP system in 2 business units and during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we completed the implementation of the new core ERP system in 2 additional business units.
Other than the system and related process changes described above, there have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
Legal Proceedings.
Tax Audits.
Our tax filings are subject to audit by taxing authorities in jurisdictions where we conduct or conducted business.
These audits may result in assessments of additional taxes that are subsequently resolved with the authorities or ultimately through legal proceedings.
We believe we have adequately accrued for any ultimate amounts that are likely to result from these audits; however, final assessments, if any, could be different from the amounts recorded in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).
Item 1A.
Risk Factors.
Investors should carefully review and consider the information regarding certain factors that could materially affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows as set forth under Item 1A.
“Risk Factors” in our Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K.
Except as set forth below in this Item 1A.
“Risk Factors,” we do not believe that there have been any material changes to the risk factors previously disclosed in our Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K. We may disclose changes to such risk factors or disclose additional risk factors from time to time in our future filings with the SEC.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe not to be material also may adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
•The closing of the merger is subject to closing conditions, including regulatory approvals and approval by the shareholders of each company.
If the closing conditions are not satisfied or waived, either timely or at all, the merger will be delayed or will not be completed, which could cause us not to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits of the merger.
•The market price of our common stock may reflect an assumption that the pending merger will occur and on a timely basis, and the failure to do so may result in a decline in the market price of our common stock.
•Combining the two companies may prove to be more difficult, costly and time consuming than expected, which could cause us not to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits and cost savings from the merger.
•In connection with the merger, the combined company will have significant outstanding indebtedness, including each company’s currently outstanding indebtedness, which could adversely affect us, including by potentially lowering our credit ratings or decreasing our business flexibility, particularly if we are not able to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits and cost savings from the merger.
•The merger will involve substantial non-recurring costs, including transaction costs, regulatory costs and integration costs, such as facilities, systems and employment-related costs, and we may incur additional unanticipated costs that may be significant.
Although we expect the elimination of duplicative costs and other cost synergies from operational and functional efficiencies following integration of the two companies to exceed integration costs over time, we may not be able to achieve this result as quickly as anticipated or at all, particularly if we are not able to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits and cost savings from the merger.
•The merger may not be as accretive to our earnings or cash flows as we expect, either as quickly or at all, and actually may be dilutive to our earnings or cash flows, particularly if we are not able to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits and cost savings from the merger.
•Sales of our common stock by our shareholders, including shareholders of L3 who receive shares of our common stock as a result of the merger, may result in a decline in the market price of our common stock.
•Lawsuits may be filed challenging the merger, and an adverse ruling in such lawsuits may cause the merger to be delayed or not to be completed, which could cause us not to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits of the merger.
•Uncertainties associated with the merger may adversely affect our ability and L3’s ability to attract and retain management and other key employees during the pendency of the merger and the integration period, which could adversely affect our business and operations and L3’s business and operations, which could cause us not to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits of the merger.
