Item 1A:  

Risk Factors  



The implementation of tariffs and export controls on our products may have a material impact on our business.
Our business operations and supply chain are global and may be disrupted by the implementation of tariffs and export controls on our products.
On July 6, 2018 and August 23, 2018, the United States Trade Representative imposed a 25% tariff on two lists of products, including certain Teradyne products that are made in China and imported into the United States.
We have submitted requests for exclusion of our products from the tariff, but there is no assurance that our requests will be approved.
We have implemented operational changes that will mitigate the impact of the 25% tariff on the import of our impacted products into the United States.
As a result, we do not expect that the tariff will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
On September 24, 2018, the United States Trade Representative imposed a 10% tariff on many additional products made in China and imported into the United States.
The tariff rate is expected to increase to 25% in January 2019.
At this time, we do not expect that this tariff will significantly impact any Teradyne products and thus the tariff should not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
On June 29, 2018, the United States Department of Commerce announced that it has commenced a review of new export controls focusing on emerging and foundational technologies.
While there is uncertainty as to the technologies that will be covered, the new export controls could cover technologies used in one or more Teradyne products and, therefore, could impact the sale of certain Teradyne products and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
In addition to the actions taken by the United States, China has implemented retaliatory tariffs on products made in the United States and imported into China, including certain Teradyne products.
We plan to assess and implement, if appropriate, operational changes that would mitigate the impact of the retaliatory tariffs.
However, notwithstanding our efforts, the retaliatory tariffs or other trade restrictions implemented by China could disrupt our business operations, sales and supply chain and, therefore, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
Table of Contents 

 Item 2:  

Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  

In January 2018, our Board of Directors cancelled the December 2016 stock repurchase program and authorized a new stock repurchase program for up to $1.5 billion of common stock.
We intend to repurchase $750 million in 2018.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we repurchased 13.8 million shares of common stock for $562.3 million at an average price of $40.62 per share.
In December 2016, our Board of Directors approved a $500 million share repurchase authorization, which commenced on January 1, 2017.
During the nine months ended October 1, 2017, we repurchased 4.3 million shares of common stock for $151.8 million at an average price of $32.66 per share.
Includes 2,225 shares at an average price of $40.46 withheld from employees for the payment of taxes.
We satisfy U.S. federal and state minimum withholding tax obligations due upon the vesting and the conversion of restricted stock units into shares of our common stock, by automatically withholding from the shares being issued, a number of shares with an aggregate fair market value on the date of such vesting and conversion that would satisfy the minimum withholding amount due.
Item 4:  

Mine Safety Disclosures  

Not Applicable  

 Item 6:  

Exhibits  



Table of Contents 

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
