item1.txt
Science Applications International Corporation (collectively, with its consolidated subsidiaries, the “Company”) is a leading provider of technical, engineering and enterprise information technology (IT) services primarily to the U.S. government. The Company provides engineering and integration services for large, complex projects and offers a broad range of services with a targeted emphasis on higher-end, differentiated technology services. The Company is organized as a matrix comprised of three customer facing operating segments supported by a solutions and technology group. Each of the Company’s three customer facing operating segments is focused on providing the Company’s comprehensive technical and enterprise IT service offerings to one or more agencies of the U.S federal government. The Company's operating segments are aggregated into one reportable segment for financial reporting purposes.
Non-controlling Interest. As a result of the acquisition of Engility, the Company holds a 50.1% majority interest in Forfeiture Support Associates J.V. (FSA). The results of operations of FSA are included in the Company's condensed and consolidated statements of income. The non-controlling interest reported on the condensed and consolidated balance sheets represents the portion of FSA's equity that is attributable to the non-controlling interest.
The Company’s fixed interest rate swaps are considered over-the-counter derivatives, and fair value is calculated using a standard pricing model for interest rate swaps with contractual terms for maturities, amortization and interest rates. Level 2, or market observable inputs (such as yield and credit curves), are used within the standard pricing models in order to determine fair value. The fair value is an estimate of the amount that the Company would pay or receive as of a measurement date if the agreements were transferred to a third party or canceled. See Note 8 for further discussion on the Company’s derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges.
Inventory is substantially comprised of finished goods inventory purchased for resale to customers, such as tires and lubricants, and is valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value, generally using the average method. The Company evaluates current inventory against historical and planned usage to estimate the appropriate provision for obsolete inventory.
Investments in marketable securities consist of equity securities which are recorded at fair value using observable inputs such as quoted prices in active markets (Level 1). As of May 3, 2019 and February 1, 2019, the fair value of our investments total $26 million and $4 million and was included in other assets on our condensed and consolidated balance sheets. Our investments are primarily held in a custodial account, which includes investments to fund our deferred compensation plan liabilities. 
ASU 2016-02 became effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal 2020. The Company adopted the standard using the optional transition method. Accordingly, the prior periods were not recast, and all prior period amounts disclosed are presented under ASC 840. The Company elected certain practical expedients provided under the standard, including the package of practical expedients, which allows entities not to reassess whether existing contracts are or contain leases. Therefore, at adoption, existing leases have been identified using the criteria of ASC 840. 
As a result of the adoption of the new standard, on February 2, 2019, the Company recognized approximately $169 million of right of use operating assets and $187 million of operating lease liabilities, of which $140 million was noncurrent. The adoption did not have a material impact on retained earnings, the condensed and consolidated statements of income, or the condensed and consolidated statements of cash flows.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-15, Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That Is a Service Contract, which aligns the capitalization requirements for implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the existing capitalization requirements for implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software (Subtopic 350-40). ASU 2018-15 becomes effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 and may be adopted either retrospectively or prospectively. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this standard on its financial statements.
Aggregate changes in these estimates increased operating income by $8 million ($0.11 per diluted share) for the three months ended May 3, 2019, and decreased operating income by $5 million ($0.09 per diluted share) for the three months ended May 4, 2018. Changes in these estimates increased net income by $6 million for the three months ended May 3, 2019. In addition, revenues were $9 million higher for the three months ended May 3, 2019, due to net revenue recognized from performance obligations satisfied in prior periods. 
On January 14, 2019, the Company completed the acquisition of Engility Holdings, Inc., a leading provider of integrated solutions and services supporting U.S. government customers in the defense, federal civilian, and intelligence and space communities. This strategic acquisition enables greater market and customer access, 
The acquisition was funded through a combination of SAIC common stock and additional borrowings. At the effective time of the acquisition, each outstanding share of Engility common stock was automatically cancelled and converted into the right to receive 0.45 shares of the Science Applications International Corporation common stock. The Company amended its credit agreement to provide for a new five-year senior secured $1.1 billion term loan facility. SAIC borrowed the entire amount of the term loan facility, the proceeds of which were immediately used to repay Engility's existing credit facility and outstanding notes and to pay fees and expenses associated with the acquisition, with the balance retained by SAIC to be used for general corporate purposes.
During the three months ended May 3, 2019, the Company granted certain employees 0.1 million stock options with a weighted-average exercise price and weighted-average grant date fair value of $74.97 and $16.71, respectively. These options will expire on the seventh anniversary of the grant date and will vest ratably on each anniversary of the grant date over a three-year period.
On October 31, 2018, the Company exited one of its interest rate swaps and discontinued hedge accounting. The Company received cash proceeds of $6 million upon the early settlement. The $6 million of deferred gains in accumulated other comprehensive loss will be reclassified into interest expense over the original contractual term of the interest rate swaps, which has a maturity date of May 7, 2020.
Effective upon the adoption of ASU 2016-02, the Company recognizes a right of use (ROU) asset and a lease liability upon the commencement of its operating leases. The initial lease liability is equal to the future fixed minimum lease payments discounted using the Company’s incremental borrowing rate, on a secured basis. The lease term includes option renewal periods and early termination payments when it is reasonably certain that the Company will exercise those rights. The initial measurement of the ROU asset is equal to the initial lease liability plus any initial direct costs and prepayments, less any lease incentives. 


item2.txt
In fiscal year 2019, we generated greater than 95% of our revenues from contracts with the U.S. government, including subcontracts on which we perform. Our business performance is affected by the overall level of U.S. government spending and the alignment of our offerings and capabilities with the budget priorities of the U.S. government. Appropriations measures passed in September 2018 and February 2019, when combined, provide full funding for the federal government through the end of government fiscal year (GFY) 2019. These bills are funded at increased levels for defense and non-defense spending based on a bi-partisan agreement reached in February 2018 to lift caps set by the Budget Control Act of 2011 (BCA), providing additional business opportunities for the Company. However, beyond GFY 2019, there remains uncertainty on whether, and by how much, discretionary spending will be increased above the budget caps put in place in the BCA. Without additional action in the form of another bi-partisan budget agreement to lift the BCA caps, federal expenditures would decline sharply in GFY 2020. In addition, if there were a Continuing Resolution of longer than a few months to begin GFY 2020, the effect of the BCA caps, absent a change in the law, would be to reduce spending levels through sequestration from the levels set for GFY 2019 to much lower levels set in the BCA for GFY 2020.
The U.S. government has increasingly relied on contracts that are subject to a competitive bidding process (including indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity (IDIQ), U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) schedules, and other multi-award contracts), which has resulted in greater competition and increased pricing pressure. We expect that a majority of the business that we seek in the foreseeable future will be awarded through a competitive bidding process.
Despite the budget and competitive pressures affecting the industry, we believe we are well-positioned to protect and expand existing customer relationships and benefit from opportunities that we have not previously pursued. Our scale, size, and prime contractor leadership position are expected to help differentiate us from our competitors, especially on large contracts. We believe our long-term, trusted customer relationships and deep technical expertise provide us with the sophistication to handle highly complex, mission-critical contracts. SAIC’s value proposition is found in the proven ability to serve as a trusted adviser to our customers. In doing so, we leverage our expertise and scale to help them execute their mission.
We succeed as a business based on the solutions we deliver, our past performance, and our ability to compete on price. Our solutions are inspired through innovation based on adoption of best practices and technology integration of the best capabilities available. Our past performance was achieved by employee dedication and customer focus. Our current cost structure and ongoing efforts to reduce costs by strategic sourcing and developing repeatable offerings are expected to allow us to compete effectively on price in an evolving environment. Our ability to be competitive in the future will continue to be driven by our reputation for successful program execution, competitive cost structure, and efficiencies in assigning the right people, at the right time, in support of our contracts.
Our business and program management process is directed by professional managers focused on satisfying our customers by providing high quality services in achieving program requirements. These managers carefully monitor contract margin performance by constantly evaluating contract risks and opportunities. Through each contract's life cycle, program managers review performance and update contract performance estimates to reflect their understanding of the best information available. For performance obligations satisfied over time, updates to estimates are recognized on inception-to-date activity, during the period of adjustment, resulting in either a favorable or unfavorable impact to operating income.
Cost of Revenues. Cost of revenues increased $361 million for the three months ended May 3, 2019 as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to the acquisition of Engility. Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues decreased from 91.4% in the prior year quarter to 88.9%, driven by cost synergies as a result of the acquisition of Engility and improved performance across our portfolio including higher net favorable changes in estimates related to performance obligations satisfied over time ($13 million).
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities. Net cash provided by operating activities was $178 million for the three months ended May 3, 2019, an increase of $90 million compared to the prior year, primarily due to customer collections recouped from the U.S. federal government partial shutdown that occurred in the prior quarter, strong customer collections across several programs, and cash provided from the operating activities of Engility.
EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA. Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) is a non-GAAP financial performance measure that is calculated by taking net income attributable to common stockholders and excluding interest, provision for income taxes, and depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA is calculated by taking EBITDA and excluding acquisition and integration costs that we do not consider to be indicative of our ongoing operating performance. The acquisition and integration costs relate to the Company's significant acquisition of Engility. 
Backlog represents the estimated amount of future revenues to be recognized under negotiated contracts as work is performed. We do not include in backlog estimates of revenues to be derived from IDIQ contracts, but rather record backlog and bookings when task orders are awarded on these contracts. Given that much of our revenue is derived from IDIQ contract task orders that renew annually, bookings on these contracts tend to refresh annually as the task orders are renewed. Additionally, we do not include in backlog contract awards that are under protest until the protest is resolved in our favor.
•Negotiated Unfunded Backlog. Negotiated unfunded backlog represents estimated amounts of revenue to be earned in the future from negotiated contracts for which funding has not been appropriated or otherwise authorized and from unexercised priced contract options. Negotiated unfunded backlog does not include any estimate of future potential task orders expected to be awarded under IDIQ, GSA Schedules or other master agreement contract vehicles.


item3.txt
Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk


item4.txt
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


part2.txt
Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


