item1.txt
Science Applications International Corporation (collectively, with its consolidated subsidiaries, the “Company”) is a leading provider of technical, engineering and enterprise information technology (IT) services primarily to the U.S. government. The Company provides engineering and integration services for large, complex projects and offers a broad range of services with a targeted emphasis on higher-end, differentiated technology services. The Company is organized as a matrix comprised of three customer facing operating segments supported by a solutions and technology group. Each of the Company’s three customer facing operating segments is focused on providing the Company’s comprehensive technical and enterprise IT service offerings to one or more agencies of the U.S. federal government. The Company's operating segments are aggregated into one reportable segment for financial reporting purposes.
Non-controlling Interest. As a result of the acquisition of Engility, the Company holds a 50.1% majority interest in Forfeiture Support Associates J.V. (FSA). The results of operations of FSA are included in the Company's condensed and consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income. The non-controlling interest reported on the condensed and consolidated balance sheets represents the portion of FSA's equity that is attributable to the non-controlling interest.
The Company’s fixed interest rate swaps are considered over-the-counter derivatives, and fair value is calculated using a standard pricing model for interest rate swaps with contractual terms for maturities, amortization and interest rates. Level 2, or market observable inputs (such as yield and credit curves), are used within the standard pricing models in order to determine fair value. The fair value is an estimate of the amount that the Company would pay or receive as of a measurement date if the agreements were transferred to a third party or canceled. See Note 8 for further discussion on the Company’s derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges.
Inventory is substantially comprised of finished goods inventory purchased for resale to customers, such as tires and lubricants, and is valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value, generally using the average method. The Company evaluates current inventory against historical and planned usage to estimate the appropriate provision for obsolete inventory.
Investments in marketable securities consist of equity securities which are recorded at fair value using observable inputs such as quoted prices in active markets (Level 1). As of August 2, 2019 and February 1, 2019, the fair value of our investments total $25 million and $4 million, respectively, and was included in other assets on the condensed and consolidated balance sheets. The Company's investments are primarily held in a custodial account, which includes investments to fund our deferred compensation plan liabilities. 
In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which supersedes the existing lease accounting standards (Topic 840). Under the new guidance, a lessee will be required to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities for all leases with lease terms in excess of twelve months. The recognition, measurement and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee primarily will depend on its classification as either a finance lease or operating lease. The criteria for distinction between a finance lease and an operating lease are substantially similar to existing lease guidance for capital leases and operating leases. Some changes to lessor accounting have been made to conform and align that guidance with the lessee guidance and other areas within GAAP, such as Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606). In July 2018, the FASB provided an optional transition method of adoption, permitting entities to recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the period of adoption as opposed to the beginning of the earliest period presented in the financial statements. 
ASU 2016-02 became effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal 2020. The Company adopted the standard using the optional transition method. Accordingly, the prior periods were not recast, and all prior period amounts disclosed are presented under ASC 840. The Company elected certain practical expedients provided under the standard, including the package of practical expedients, which allows entities not to reassess whether existing contracts are or contain leases. Therefore, at adoption, existing leases have been identified using the criteria of ASC 840. 
As a result of the adoption of the new standard, on February 2, 2019, the Company recognized approximately $169 million of right of use operating assets and $187 million of operating lease liabilities, of which $140 million was noncurrent. The adoption did not have a material impact on retained earnings, the condensed and consolidated statements of income, or the condensed and consolidated statements of cash flows.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-15, Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That Is a Service Contract, which aligns the capitalization requirements for implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the existing capitalization requirements for implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software (Subtopic 350-40). ASU 2018-15 becomes effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 and may be adopted either retrospectively or prospectively. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this standard on its financial statements.
Basic earnings per share (EPS) is computed by dividing net income attributable to common stockholders by the basic weighted-average number of shares outstanding. Diluted EPS is computed similarly to basic EPS, except the weighted-average number of shares outstanding is increased to include the dilutive effect of outstanding stock options and other stock-based awards.
Aggregate changes in these estimates increased operating income by $4 million ($0.05 per diluted share) and $12 million ($0.16 per diluted share) for the three and six months ended August 2, 2019, respectively, increased operating income by $2 million ($0.03 per diluted share) for the three months ended August 3, 2018, and decreased operating income by $3 million ($0.05 per diluted share) for the six months ended August 3, 2018. Changes in these estimates increased net income by $3 million and $9 million for the three and six months ended August 2, 2019, respectively. In addition, revenues were $5 million and $14 million higher for the three and six months ended August 2, 2019, respectively, due to net revenue recognized from performance obligations satisfied in prior periods. 
During the six months ended August 2, 2019 and August 3, 2018, the Company recognized revenues of $19 million and $9 million relating to amounts that were included in the opening balance of contract liabilities as of February 1, 2019 and February 3, 2018, respectively. $6 million in revenues were recognized for the three months ended August 2, 2019, relating to amounts that were included in the opening balance of contract liabilities - current as of February 1, 2019.
On January 14, 2019, the Company completed the acquisition of Engility Holdings, Inc., a leading provider of integrated solutions and services supporting U.S. government customers in the defense, federal civilian, and intelligence and space communities. This strategic acquisition enables greater market and customer access, particularly in the intelligence and space communities, and enhances the Company's portfolio of capabilities, particularly in the area of systems engineering and integration. The acquisition enables acceleration of revenue growth through increased market and customer access, increased investment capacity, addition of cleared personnel and strategic alignment with key customers. The acquisition also enables increased profitability and cash generation with an improved margin profile and greater financial flexibility for investment and capital deployment. 


item2.txt
In fiscal year 2019, we generated greater than 95% of our revenues from contracts with the U.S. government, including subcontracts on which we perform. Our business performance is affected by the overall level of U.S. government spending and the alignment of our offerings and capabilities with the budget priorities of the U.S. government. Appropriations measures passed in September 2018 and February 2019, when combined, provide full funding for the federal government through the end of government fiscal year (GFY) 2019. These bills are funded at increased levels for defense and non-defense spending based on a bi-partisan agreement reached in February 2018 to lift caps set by the Budget Control Act of 2011 (BCA), providing additional business opportunities for the Company. 
In July 2019, Congress passed, and the President signed, legislation that would increase the caps for GFY 2020 and GFY 2021 by a total of $323 billion. GFY 2020 and GFY 2021 are the final two years of the BCA limits on discretionary spending, so enactment of this measure effectively ends the threat of sequestration going forward (there remain caps for additional years on certain mandatory spending accounts, but these have little to no effect on our business). The cap increases also were paired with an extension of the federal debt limit until July 31, 2021, postponing the threat of a federal government default.
While the cap increases prevent sequestration under the BCA, Congress has not yet passed any GFY 2020 appropriations measures. This makes it likely that one or more continuing resolutions (CRs) will be necessary to fund the government past September 30, and there remains a possibility that political and policy disputes could result in a full or partial government shutdown later this year.
The U.S. government has increasingly relied on contracts that are subject to a competitive bidding process (including indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity (IDIQ), U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) schedules, and other multi-award contracts), which has resulted in greater competition and increased pricing pressure. We expect that a majority of the business that we seek in the foreseeable future will be awarded through a competitive bidding process.
Despite the budget and competitive pressures affecting the industry, we believe we are well-positioned to protect and expand existing customer relationships and benefit from opportunities that we have not previously pursued. Our scale, size, and prime contractor leadership position are expected to help differentiate us from our competitors, especially on large contract opportunities. We believe our long-term, trusted customer relationships and deep technical expertise provide us with the sophistication to handle highly complex, mission-critical contracts. SAIC’s value proposition is found in the proven ability to serve as a trusted adviser to our customers. In doing so, we leverage our expertise and scale to help them execute their mission.
We succeed as a business based on the solutions we deliver, our past performance, and our ability to compete on price. Our solutions are inspired through innovation based on adoption of best practices and technology integration of the best capabilities available. Our past performance was achieved by employees dedicated to supporting our customers’ most challenging missions. Our current cost structure and ongoing efforts to reduce costs by strategic sourcing and developing repeatable offerings are expected to allow us to compete effectively on price in an evolving environment. Our ability to be competitive in the future will continue to be driven by our reputation for successful program execution, competitive cost structure, and efficiencies in assigning the right people, at the right time, in support of our contracts.
Our business and program management process is directed by professional managers focused on satisfying our customers by providing high quality services in achieving program requirements. These managers carefully monitor contract margin performance by constantly evaluating contract risks and opportunities. Through each contract's life cycle, program managers review performance and update contract performance estimates to reflect their understanding of the best information available. For performance obligations satisfied over time, updates to estimates are recognized on inception-to-date activity, during the period of adjustment, resulting in either a favorable or unfavorable impact to operating income.
Revenues increased $919 million or 40.1% for the six months ended August 2, 2019 as compared to the same period in the prior year due to the acquisition of Engility. Adjusting for the impact of acquired revenues, revenues contracted 1.4%, attributable to humanitarian relief materials in the prior year and the effect of acquisition related dis-synergies.
Cost of revenues increased $767 million for the six months ended August 2, 2019 as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to the acquisition of Engility. Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues decreased from 90.7% in the prior year quarter to 88.6%, due to the Engility acquisition and improved performance across our portfolio including higher net favorable changes in estimates related to performance obligations satisfied over time ($15 million).
EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA. Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) is a non-GAAP financial performance measure that is calculated by taking net income and excluding interest, provision for income taxes, and depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA is calculated by taking EBITDA and excluding acquisition and integration costs that we do not consider to be indicative of our ongoing operating performance. The acquisition and integration costs relate to the Company's significant acquisition of Engility. 
Adjusted EBITDA for the six months ended August 2, 2019 increased to 8.4% of revenues from 7.0% of revenues for the prior year, driven by the acquisition of Engility, cost synergies related to the acquisition and improved performance across our portfolio including higher net favorable changes in estimates related to performance obligations satisfied over time.


item3.txt
Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk


item4.txt
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Charles A. Mathis


part2.txt
Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures


