item1.txt
Science Applications International Corporation (collectively, with its consolidated subsidiaries, the “Company”) is a leading provider of technical, engineering and enterprise information technology (IT) services primarily to the U.S. government. The Company provides engineering and integration services for large, complex projects and offers a broad range of services with a targeted emphasis on higher-end, differentiated technology services. The Company is organized as a matrix comprised of three customer facing operating segments supported by three market service line organizations. Each of the Company’s three customer facing operating segments is focused on providing the Company’s comprehensive technical and enterprise IT service offerings to one or more agencies of the U.S federal government. The Company's operating segments are aggregated into one reportable segment for financial reporting purposes.
During fiscal 2018, the Company initiated restructuring activities (the "Restructuring") intended to improve operational efficiency, reduce costs, and better position the Company to drive future growth. The restructuring activities consisted of involuntary and voluntary terminations and the consolidation of existing leased facilities. The Company completed the Restructuring in fiscal 2018 with total restructuring costs of approximately $13 million, comprised of $6 million for employee severance and $7 million of lease exit costs. $1 million and $3 million of restructuring costs for employee severance were included in cost of revenues in the condensed and consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income for the three and nine months ended November 3, 2017, respectively. The Company made $1 million in cash payments for severance during the nine months ended November 2, 2018 and made no cash payments for severance during the three months ended November 2, 2018 or the three and nine months ended November 3, 2017. The liability associated with lease exit costs will be substantially settled within three years of the completion of the Restructuring.
The Company’s fixed interest rate swaps are considered over-the-counter derivatives, and fair value is calculated using a standard pricing model for interest rate swaps with contractual terms for maturities, amortization and interest rates. Level 2, or market observable inputs (such as yield and credit curves), are used within the standard pricing models in order to determine fair value. The fair value is an estimate of the amount that the Company would pay or receive as of a measurement date if the agreements were transferred to a third party or canceled. See Note 8 for further discussion on the Company’s derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges.
The Company adopted the standard on February 3, 2018, using the modified retrospective method. Under this method, the Company recognized the cumulative effect of adoption as an adjustment to its opening balance of retained earnings on February 3, 2018. In determining the cumulative impact of the adoption the Company applied the provisions of ASC 606 only to contracts that had not yet been completed at the date of adoption. 
The Company no longer defers the recognition of revenues and costs associated with significant upfront material acquisitions on programs previously accounted for using the efforts-expended method of percentage of completion. Under the new standard, the Company recognizes revenue on an adjusted cost-to-cost basis, where the amount of revenue that is recognized is equal to the amount of costs incurred plus profit based on the adjusted cost input measure of progress. This change resulted in a $15 million reduction in inventories, prepaid expenses and other current assets and accounts payable and accrued liabilities on February 3, 2018, but had no impact on the adjustment to opening retained earnings. 
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which supersedes the existing lease accounting standards (Topic 840). Under the new guidance, a lessee will be required to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities for all leases with lease terms in excess of twelve months. The recognition, measurement and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee primarily will depend on its classification as either a finance lease or operating lease. The criteria for distinction between a finance lease and an operating lease are substantially similar to existing lease guidance for capital leases and operating leases. Some changes to lessor accounting have been made to conform and align that guidance with the lessee guidance and other areas within GAAP, such as Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606). In July 2018, the FASB provided an optional transition method of adoption, permitting entities to recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the period of adoption as opposed to the beginning of the earliest period presented in the financial statements. ASU 2016-02 becomes effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal 2020. The Company intends to adopt using the optional transition method. The Company is implementing new lease accounting software and is designing new processes and internal controls. The Company continues to evaluate the standard, but has not quantified the impact of adoption on its financial statements.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-15, Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That Is a Service Contract, which aligns the capitalization requirements for implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the existing capitalization requirements for implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software (Subtopic 350-40). ASU 2018-15 becomes effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 and may be adopted either retrospectively or prospectively. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this standard on its financial statements.
Basic earnings per share (EPS) is computed by dividing net income by the basic weighted-average number of shares outstanding. Diluted EPS is computed similarly to basic EPS, except the weighted-average number of shares outstanding is increased to include the dilutive effect of outstanding stock options and other stock-based awards.
The Company recognizes revenue when, or as, we satisfy our performance obligations under a contract. A performance obligation is the unit of account for revenue recognition and refers to a promise in a contract to transfer a distinct service or good to the customer. The majority of the Company’s contracts contain a single performance obligation involving a significant integration of various activities that are performed together to deliver a combined service or solution. Performance obligations may be satisfied over time or at a point in time, but the majority of the Company’s performance obligations are satisfied over time. The Company selects the appropriate measure of progress for revenue recognition based on the nature of the performance obligation, contract type and other pertinent contract terms.
Over time performance obligations may involve a series of recurring services, such as network operations and maintenance, operation and program support services, IT outsourcing services, and other IT arrangements where the Company is standing ready to provide support, when-and-if needed. Such performance obligations are satisfied over time because the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits of our performance as services are provided. Alternatively, over time performance obligations may involve the completion of a contract deliverable. Examples include systems integration, network engineering, network design, and engineering and build services. Deliverable-based performance obligations are satisfied over time when the Company’s performance creates or enhances an asset that is controlled by the customer, or when the Company’s performance creates an asset that is customized to the customer’s specifications and the Company has a right to payment, including profit, for work performed to date. 
For recurring services performance obligations, the Company measures progress using either a cost input measure (cost-to-cost), a time-elapsed output measure, or the as-invoiced practical expedient. A cost input measure typically is applied to the Company’s cost-reimbursable contracts. Revenue is recognized based on the ratio of costs incurred to total estimated costs at completion. Award or incentive fees are allocated to the distinct periods to which they relate. For fixed-price contracts, a time-elapsed output measure is applied to fixed consideration, such that revenue is recognized ratably over the period of performance. Where fixed-price contracts also provide for reimbursement of certain costs, such as travel or other direct costs, consideration may be attributed only to a distinct subset of time within the performance period. The Company’s time-and-material and fixed price-level of effort contracts generally qualify for the as-invoiced practical expedient. Revenue is recognized in the amount to which the Company has a contractual right to invoice. Contract modifications typically create new enforceable rights and obligations, which are accounted for prospectively. Changes to our estimates of the transaction price are recognized as a cumulative adjustment to revenue.
For deliverable-based performance obligations satisfied over time, the Company recognizes revenue using a cost input measure of progress (cost-to-cost), regardless of contract type. Revenue is recognized based on the ratio of costs incurred to total estimated costs at completion, except for certain contracts for which the costs associated with significant materials or hardware procurements are excluded from the measure of progress and revenue is recognized on an adjusted cost-to-cost basis. Contract modifications typically change currently enforceable rights and obligations and are accounted for as a cumulative adjustment to revenue. Changes to our estimates of transaction price are recognized as a cumulative adjustment to revenue.
For contracts with multiple performance obligations, the Company allocates transaction price to each performance obligation based on the relative standalone selling price of each distinct performance obligation within the contract. Because the Company typically provides customized services and solutions that are specific to a single customer’s requirements, standalone selling price is most often estimated based on expected costs plus a reasonable profit margin.
Timing of revenue recognition may differ from the timing of billing and cash receipts from customers. Amounts are invoiced as work progresses, typically biweekly or monthly in arrears, or upon achievement of contractual milestones. We record a contract asset when revenue is recognized prior to invoicing, or a contract liability when cash is received in advance of recognizing revenue. A contract asset is a right to consideration that is conditional upon factors other than the passage of time. Contract assets include unbillable receivables and contract retentions, but exclude billed and billable receivables. Billed and billable receivables are rights to consideration which are unconditional other than to the passage of time. Contract liabilities include customer advances, cash collected in excess of revenues and deferred revenue. Contract assets and liabilities are recorded net on a contract-by-contract basis and are generally classified as current based on our contract operating cycle. Deferred revenue attributable to long-term contract material renewal options may be classified as non-current when the option renewal period will not occur within one year of the balance sheet date.


item2.txt
We are a leading technology integrator providing full life-cycle services and solutions in the technical, engineering and enterprise information technology (IT) markets. We developed our brand by addressing our customers’ mission critical needs and solving their most complex problems for over 45 years. As one of the largest pure-play technical service providers to the U.S. government, we serve markets of significant scale and opportunity. Our primary customers are the departments and agencies of the U.S. government. We serve our customers through approximately 1,300 active contracts and task orders and employ more than 15,000 individuals who are led by an experienced executive team of proven industry leaders. Our long history of serving the U.S. government has afforded us the ability to develop strong and longstanding relationships with some of the largest customers in the markets we serve. Substantially all of our revenues and tangible long-lived assets are generated by or owned by entities located in the United States.
In fiscal 2018, we generated greater than 95% of our revenues from contracts with the U.S. government, including subcontracts on which we perform. Our business performance is affected by the overall level of U.S. government spending and the alignment of our offerings and capabilities with the budget priorities of the U.S. government. An omnibus appropriations measure increased discretionary federal spending by $143 billion above previous spending caps for government fiscal year (GFY) 2018, providing additional business opportunities for the Company. A budget agreement passed in February would extend and increase those spending levels for GFY 2019. But beyond that two-year window, there remains uncertainty on whether, and by how much, discretionary spending will be increased above the budget caps put in place in August 2011. Without additional action, federal expenditures would decline sharply in GFY 2020.
Despite the budget and competitive pressures impacting the industry, we believe we are well positioned to protect and expand existing customer relationships and benefit from opportunities that we have not previously pursued. Our scale, size and prime contractor leadership position are expected to help differentiate us from our competitors, especially on large contracts. We believe our long-term, trusted customer relationships and deep technical expertise provide us with the sophistication to handle highly complex mission-critical contracts. SAIC’s value proposition is found in the proven ability to serve as a trusted adviser to our customers. In doing so, we leverage our expertise and scale to help them execute their mission.
We succeed as a business based on the solutions we deliver, our past performance and our ability to compete on price. Our solutions, inspired through innovation, are based on best practices and technology transfer. Our past performance was achieved by employee dedication and customer focus. Our current cost structure, as well as our ongoing efforts to reduce costs by strategic sourcing and developing repeatable offerings, is expected to allow us to compete effectively on price in an evolving environment. Our ability to be competitive in the future will continue to be driven by our reputation of successful program execution, competitive cost structure and efficiencies in assigning the right people, at the right time, in support of our contracts.
During fiscal 2018, the Company initiated restructuring activities (the "Restructuring") intended to improve operational efficiency, reduce costs, and better position the Company to drive future growth. Management's restructuring activities included involuntary and voluntary terminations and the consolidation of existing leased facilities. Management completed the Restructuring in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018. Total restructuring costs of approximately $13 million were incurred and recognized, comprised of $6 million in severance expense and $7 million in lease exit costs, which included $1 million in accelerated depreciation expense. Refer to "Results of Operations" below, and "Restructuring" in Note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for further details.
Our business and program management process is directed by professional managers focused on satisfying our customers by providing high quality services in achieving program requirements. These managers carefully monitor performance by constantly evaluating risks and opportunities. Through each program life cycle, managers review performance and update estimates to reflect their understanding of the best information available. For performance obligations satisfied over time, updates to estimates are recognized on inception-to-date activity, during the period of adjustment, resulting in either a favorable or unfavorable impact to operating income.
Revenues. Revenues increased $32 million or 2.8% for the three months ended November 2, 2018 as compared to the same period in the prior year due to newly awarded contracts ($54 million), which includes information technology (IT) integration contracts supporting state and local customers, and increased orders in our supply chain portfolio ($24 million). These increases were partially offset by completion of contracts and other net decreases across our portfolio ($46 million).
Revenues increased $141 million or 4.2% for the nine months ended November 2, 2018 as compared to the same period in the prior year due to revenue on new contracts primarily supporting NASA, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and state and local customers ($128 million), as well as increased orders in our supply chain portfolio ($120 million). These increases were partially offset by completion of contracts ($72 million) and other net decreases across our portfolio ($35 million).
Cost of Revenues. Cost of revenues increased $12 million for the three months ended November 2, 2018 as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to an increase in revenue volume. Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues decreased from 90.5% in the prior year quarter to 89.0%, driven by improved performance across our portfolio ($28 million), inclusive of newly awarded contracts, and higher net favorable changes in estimates related to performance obligations satisfied over time ($14 million). These improvements were partially offset by an increase in our inventory provision ($25 million).
Cost of revenues increased $103 million for the nine months ended November 2, 2018 as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to an increase in revenue volume. Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues decreased from 90.9% in the prior year period to 90.1%, driven by improved contract performance to include the effect of our restructuring efforts in fiscal 2018 ($35 million), and higher net favorable changes in estimates related to performance obligations satisfied over time ($15 million). These improvements were partially offset by an increase in our inventory provision ($25 million).


item3.txt



item4.txt
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


part2.txt
We have provided information about legal proceedings in which we are involved in our fiscal 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we have provided an update to this information in Note 10 of the notes to the condensed and consolidated financial statements contained within this report.
In addition to the described legal proceedings, we are routinely subject to investigations and reviews relating to compliance with various laws and regulations. Additional information regarding such investigations and reviews is included in our fiscal 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we have also updated this information in Note 10 of the notes to the condensed and consolidated financial statements contained within this report, under the heading “Government Investigations, Audits and Reviews.”
Even if the Engility merger is consummated, we may not be able to successfully integrate the business of Engility with our own or realize the anticipated benefits of the merger in the expected time frame, or at all.
•potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated with the merger.


