item1.txt
Science Applications International Corporation (collectively, with its consolidated subsidiaries, the “Company”) is a leading provider of technical, engineering and enterprise information technology (IT) services primarily to the U.S. government. The Company provides engineering and integration services for large, complex projects and offers a broad range of services with a targeted emphasis on higher-end, differentiated technology services. The Company is organized as a matrix comprised of three customer facing operating segments supported by a solutions and technology group. Each of the Company’s three customer facing operating segments is focused on providing the Company’s comprehensive technical and enterprise IT service offerings to one or more agencies of the U.S. federal government. The Company's operating segments are aggregated into one reportable segment for financial reporting purposes.
Non-controlling Interest. As a result of the acquisition of Engility, the Company holds a 50.1% majority interest in Forfeiture Support Associates J.V. (FSA). The results of operations of FSA are included in the Company's condensed and consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income. The non-controlling interest reported on the condensed and consolidated balance sheets represents the portion of FSA's equity that is attributable to the non-controlling interest.
The Company’s fixed interest rate swaps are considered over-the-counter derivatives, and fair value is calculated using a standard pricing model for interest rate swaps with contractual terms for maturities, amortization and interest rates. Level 2, or market observable inputs (such as yield and credit curves), are used within the standard pricing models in order to determine fair value. The fair value is an estimate of the amount that the Company would pay or receive as of a measurement date if the agreements were transferred to a third party or canceled. See Note 8 for further discussion on the Company’s derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges.
Inventory is substantially comprised of finished goods inventory purchased for resale to customers, such as tires and lubricants, and is valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value, generally using the average method. The Company evaluates current inventory against historical and planned usage to estimate the appropriate provision for obsolete inventory.
Investments in marketable securities consist of equity securities which are recorded at fair value using observable inputs such as quoted prices in active markets (Level 1). As of November 1, 2019 and February 1, 2019, the fair value of our investments total $26 million and $4 million, respectively, and was included in other assets on the condensed and consolidated balance sheets. The Company's investments are primarily held in a custodial account, which includes investments to fund our deferred compensation plan liabilities. 
In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which supersedes the existing lease accounting standards (Topic 840). Under the new guidance, a lessee will be required to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities for all leases with lease terms in excess of twelve months. The recognition, measurement and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee primarily will depend on its classification as either a finance lease or operating lease. The criteria for distinction between a finance lease and an operating lease are substantially similar to existing lease guidance for capital leases and operating leases. Some changes to lessor accounting have been made to conform and align that guidance with the lessee guidance and other areas within GAAP, such as Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606). In July 2018, the FASB provided an optional transition method of adoption, permitting entities to recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the period of adoption as opposed to the beginning of the earliest period presented in the financial statements. 
ASU 2016-02 became effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal 2020. The Company adopted the standard using the optional transition method. Accordingly, the prior periods were not recast, and all prior period amounts disclosed are presented under ASC 840. The Company elected certain practical expedients provided under the standard, including the package of practical expedients, which allows entities not to reassess whether 
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-15, Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That Is a Service Contract, which aligns the capitalization requirements for implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the existing capitalization requirements for implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software (Subtopic 350-40). ASU 2018-15 becomes effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal 2021. During the third quarter of fiscal 2020, the Company early adopted ASU 2018-15 and applied its provisions prospectively. Adoption of the standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s condensed and consolidated financial statements.
Basic earnings per share (EPS) is computed by dividing net income attributable to common stockholders by the basic weighted-average number of shares outstanding. Diluted EPS is computed similarly to basic EPS, except the weighted-average number of shares outstanding is increased to include the dilutive effect of outstanding stock options and other stock-based awards.
During the nine months ended November 1, 2019 and November 2, 2018, the Company recognized revenues of $21 million and $10 million relating to amounts that were included in the opening balance of contract liabilities as of February 1, 2019 and February 3, 2018, respectively. During the three months ended November 1, 2019 and November 2, 2018, the Company recognized revenues of $2 million and $1 million relating to amounts that were included in the opening balance of contract liabilities as of February 1, 2019 and February 3, 2018.
On January 14, 2019, the Company completed the acquisition of Engility Holdings, Inc., a leading provider of integrated solutions and services supporting U.S. government customers in the defense, federal civilian, and intelligence and space communities. This strategic acquisition enables greater market and customer access, particularly in the intelligence and space communities, and enhances the Company's portfolio of capabilities, particularly in the area of systems engineering and integration. The acquisition enables acceleration of revenue growth through increased market and customer access, increased investment capacity, addition of cleared personnel and strategic alignment with key customers. The acquisition also enables increased profitability and cash generation with an improved margin profile and greater financial flexibility for investment and capital deployment. 
The acquisition was funded through a combination of SAIC common stock and additional borrowings. At the effective time of the acquisition, each outstanding share of Engility common stock was automatically cancelled and converted into the right to receive 0.45 shares of the Science Applications International Corporation common stock. The Company amended its credit agreement to provide for a new five-year senior secured $1.1 billion term loan facility. SAIC borrowed the entire amount of the term loan facility, the proceeds of which were immediately used to repay Engility's existing credit facility and outstanding notes and to pay fees and expenses associated with the acquisition, with the balance retained by SAIC to be used for general corporate purposes.
The purchase price was allocated, on a preliminary basis, among assets acquired and liabilities assumed at fair value on the acquisition date, January 14, 2019, based on the best available information, with the excess purchase price recorded as goodwill. As of November 1, 2019, the Company had not finalized the determination of fair values allocated to various assets and liabilities, including, but not limited to, receivables, other current assets, deferred tax assets, property, plant, and equipment, other accrued liabilities and goodwill. The allocation of the purchase price is subject to change as the Company continues to obtain and assess relevant information that existed as of the acquisition date, including but not limited to, information pertaining to Engility’s historical government compliance accounting practices, legal proceedings, reserves, income taxes, contracts with customers, and pre-acquisition contingencies. The Company expects to have sufficient information available to resolve these items by the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, which could potentially result in changes in assets or liabilities on Engility’s opening balance sheet and an adjustment to goodwill.


item2.txt
We are a leading technology integrator providing full life cycle services and solutions in the technical, engineering and enterprise information technology (IT) markets. We developed our brand by addressing our customers’ mission critical needs and solving their most complex problems for over 50 years. As one of the largest pure-play technical service providers to the U.S. government, we serve markets of significant scale and opportunity. Our primary customers are the departments and agencies of the U.S. government. We serve our customers through approximately 2,200 active contracts and task orders and employ more than 23,000 individuals who are led by an experienced executive team of proven industry leaders. Our long history of serving the U.S. government has afforded us the ability to develop strong and longstanding relationships with some of the largest customers in the markets we serve. Substantially all of our revenues and tangible long-lived assets are generated by or owned by entities located in the United States.
In July 2019, Congress passed, and the President signed, legislation that would increase the caps for GFY 2020 and GFY 2021 by a total of $323 billion. GFY 2020 and GFY 2021 are the final two years of the BCA limits on discretionary spending, so enactment of this measure effectively ended the threat of sequestration going forward (there remain caps for additional years on certain mandatory spending accounts, but these have little to no effect on our business). The cap increases also were paired with an extension of the federal debt limit until July 31, 2021, postponing the threat of a federal government default.
The U.S. government has increasingly relied on contracts that are subject to a competitive bidding process (including indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity (IDIQ), U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) schedules, and other multi-award contracts), which has resulted in greater competition and increased pricing pressure. We expect that a majority of the business that we seek in the foreseeable future will be awarded through a competitive bidding process.
Despite the budget and competitive pressures affecting the industry, we believe we are well-positioned to protect and expand existing customer relationships and benefit from opportunities that we have not previously pursued. Our scale, size, and prime contractor leadership position are expected to help differentiate us from our competitors, especially on large contract opportunities. We believe our long-term, trusted customer relationships and deep technical expertise provide us with the sophistication to handle highly complex, mission-critical contracts. SAIC’s value proposition is found in the proven ability to serve as a trusted adviser to our customers. In doing so, we leverage our expertise and scale to help them execute their mission.
We succeed as a business based on the solutions we deliver, our past performance, and our ability to compete on price. Our solutions are inspired through innovation based on adoption of best practices and technology integration of the best capabilities available. Our past performance was achieved by employees dedicated to supporting our customers’ most challenging missions. Our current cost structure and ongoing efforts to reduce costs by strategic sourcing and developing repeatable offerings are expected to allow us to compete effectively on price in an evolving environment. Our ability to be competitive in the future will continue to be driven by our reputation for successful program execution, competitive cost structure, and efficiencies in assigning the right people, at the right time, in support of our contracts.
Our business and program management process is directed by professional managers focused on satisfying our customers by providing high quality services in achieving program requirements. These managers carefully monitor contract margin performance by constantly evaluating contract risks and opportunities. Through each contract's life cycle, program managers review performance and update contract performance estimates to reflect their understanding of the best information available. For performance obligations satisfied over time, updates to estimates are recognized on inception-to-date activity, during the period of adjustment, resulting in either a favorable or unfavorable impact to operating income.
Revenues increased $1,372 million or 39.6% for the nine months ended November 1, 2019 as compared to the same period in the prior year due to the acquisition of Engility. Adjusting for the impact of acquired revenues, revenues contracted 1.4%, primarily attributable to the completion of certain contracts with the U.S. Marine Corps ($69 million) and the effect of acquisition related dis-synergies.
Net Income Attributable to Common Stockholders. Net income attributable to common stockholders for the three months ended November 1, 2019 increased $7 million as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to increased operating income ($17 million, net of tax), partially offset by higher interest expense and a higher effective tax rate.
EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA. Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) is a non-GAAP financial performance measure that is calculated by taking net income and excluding interest, provision for income taxes, and depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA is calculated by taking EBITDA and excluding acquisition and integration costs that we do not consider to be indicative of our ongoing operating performance. The acquisition and integration costs relate to the Company's significant acquisition of Engility. 
Net Bookings and Backlog. Net bookings represent the estimated amount of revenues to be earned in the future from funded and negotiated unfunded contract awards that were received during the period, net of adjustments to estimates on previously awarded contracts. We calculate net bookings as the period’s ending backlog plus the period’s revenues less the prior period’s ending backlog and initial backlog obtained through acquisitions.
Backlog represents the estimated amount of future revenues to be recognized under negotiated contracts as work is performed. We do not include in backlog estimates of revenues to be derived from IDIQ contracts, but rather record backlog and bookings when task orders are awarded on these contracts. Given that much of our revenue is derived from IDIQ contract task orders that renew annually, bookings on these contracts tend to refresh annually as the task orders are renewed. Additionally, we do not include in backlog contract awards that are under protest until the protest is resolved in our favor.


item3.txt
Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk


item4.txt
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Charles A. Mathis


part2.txt
Item 1. Legal Proceedings
Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities


