item1.txt
Science Applications International Corporation (collectively, with its consolidated subsidiaries, the “Company”) is a leading provider of technical, engineering and enterprise information technology (IT) services primarily to the U.S. government. The Company provides engineering and integration services for large, complex projects and offers a broad range of services with a targeted emphasis on higher-end, differentiated technology services. The Company is organized as a matrix comprised of three customer facing operating segments supported by three market service line organizations. Each of the Company’s three customer facing operating segments is focused on providing the Company’s comprehensive technical and enterprise IT service offerings to one or more agencies of the U.S federal government. The Company's operating segments are aggregated into one reportable segment for financial reporting purposes.
The Company’s fixed interest rate swaps are considered over-the-counter derivatives, and fair value is calculated using a standard pricing model for interest rate swaps with contractual terms for maturities, amortization and interest rates. Level 2, or market observable inputs (such as yield and credit curves), are used within the standard pricing models in order to determine fair value. The fair value is an estimate of the amount that the Company would pay or receive as of a measurement date if the agreements were transferred to a third party or canceled. See Note 7 for further discussion on the Company’s derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges.
The Company no longer defers the recognition of revenues and costs associated with significant upfront material acquisitions on programs previously accounted for using the efforts-expended method of percentage of completion. Under the new standard, the Company recognizes revenue on an adjusted cost-to-cost basis, where the amount of revenue that is recognized is equal to the amount of costs incurred plus profit based on the adjusted cost input measure of progress. This change resulted in a $15 million reduction in inventories, prepaid expenses and other current assets and accounts payable and accrued liabilities on February 3, 2018, but had no impact on the adjustment to opening retained earnings. 
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-2, Leases (Topic 842), which supersedes the existing lease accounting standards (Topic 840). Under the new guidance, a lessee will be required to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities for all leases with lease terms in excess of twelve months. The recognition, measurement and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee primarily will depend on its classification as either a finance lease or operating lease. The criteria for distinction between a finance lease and an operating lease are substantially similar to existing lease guidance for capital leases and operating leases. Some changes to lessor accounting have been made to conform and align that guidance with the lessee guidance and other areas within GAAP, such as Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606). ASU 2016-2 becomes effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and will be adopted using a modified retrospective approach. The Company has commenced the assessment phase of the project and is evaluating the impact on its financial statements from the future adoption of the standard.
The Company recognizes revenue when, or as, we satisfy our performance obligations under a contract. A performance obligation is the unit of account for revenue recognition and refers to a promise in a contract to transfer a distinct service or good to the customer. The majority of the Company’s contracts contain a single performance obligation involving a significant integration of various activities that are performed together to deliver a combined service or solution. Performance obligations may be satisfied over time or at a point in time, but the majority of the Company’s performance obligations are satisfied over time. The Company selects the appropriate measure of progress for revenue recognition based on the nature of the performance obligation, contract type and other pertinent contract terms.
Over time performance obligations may involve a series of recurring services, such as network operations and maintenance, operation and program support services, IT outsourcing services, and other IT arrangements where the Company is standing ready to provide support, when-and-if needed. Such performance obligations are satisfied over time because the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits of our performance as services are provided. Alternatively, over time performance obligations may involve the completion of a contract deliverable. Examples include systems integration, network engineering, network design, and engineering and build services. Deliverable-based performance obligations are satisfied over time when the Company’s performance creates or enhances an asset that is controlled by the customer, or when the Company’s performance creates an asset that is customized to the customer’s specifications and the Company has a right to payment, including profit, for work performed to date. 
For recurring services performance obligations, the Company measures progress using either a cost input measure (cost-to-cost), a time-elapsed output measure, or the as-invoiced practical expedient. A cost input measure typically is applied to the Company’s cost-reimbursable contracts. Revenue is recognized based on the ratio of costs incurred to total estimated costs at completion. Award or incentive fees are allocated to the distinct periods to which they relate. For fixed-price contracts, a time-elapsed output measure is applied to fixed consideration, such that revenue is recognized ratably over the period of performance. Where fixed-price contracts also provide for reimbursement of certain costs, such as travel or other direct costs, consideration may be attributed only to a distinct subset of time within the performance period. The Company’s time-and-material and fixed price-level of effort contracts generally qualify for the as-invoiced practical expedient. Revenue is recognized in the amount to which the Company has a contractual right to invoice. Contract modifications typically create new enforceable rights and obligations, which are accounted for prospectively. Changes to our estimates of the transaction price are recognized as a cumulative adjustment to revenue.
For deliverable-based performance obligations satisfied over time, the Company recognizes revenue using a cost input measure of progress (cost-to-cost), regardless of contract type. Revenue is recognized based on the ratio of costs incurred to total estimated costs at completion, except for certain contracts for which the costs associated with significant materials or hardware procurements are excluded from the measure of progress and revenue is recognized on an adjusted cost-to-cost basis. Contract modifications typically change currently enforceable rights and obligations and are accounted for as a cumulative adjustment to revenue. Changes to our estimates of transaction price are recognized as a cumulative adjustment to revenue.
Contract fulfillment costs are expensed as incurred except for certain costs incurred for transition, set-up or other fulfillment activities under contracts, which are capitalized and amortized on a straight-line basis over the expected period of benefit, which generally includes the base contract period of performance and anticipated renewal periods. The Company provides for anticipated losses on contracts with the U.S. government by recording an expense for the total expected loss during the period in which the losses are first determined.
For contracts with multiple performance obligations, the Company allocates transaction price to each performance obligation based on the relative standalone selling price of each distinct performance obligation within the contract. Because the Company typically provides customized services and solutions that are specific to a single customer’s requirements, standalone selling price is most often estimated based on expected costs plus a reasonable profit margin.
Timing of revenue recognition may differ from the timing of billing and cash receipts from customers. Amounts are invoiced as work progresses, typically biweekly or monthly in arrears, or upon achievement of contractual milestones. We record a contract asset when revenue is recognized prior to invoicing, or a contract liability when cash is received in advance of recognizing revenue. A contract asset is a right to consideration that is conditional upon factors other than the passage of time. Contract assets include unbillable receivables and contract retentions, but exclude billed and billable receivables. Billed and billable receivables are rights to consideration which are unconditional other than to the passage of time. Contract liabilities include customer advances, cash collected in excess of revenues and deferred revenue. Contract assets and liabilities are recorded net on a contract-by-contract basis and are generally classified as current based on our contract operating cycle. Deferred revenue attributable to long-term contract material renewal options may be classified as non-current when the option renewal period will not occur within one year of the balance sheet date.
During the three months ended May 4, 2018, the Company granted to certain employees 0.1 million performance share awards with a grant date fair value of $85.31 per award. These awards will cliff vest at the end of the third fiscal year following the grant date, subject to meeting the minimum service requirements and the achievement of certain annual and cumulative financial metrics of the Company’s performance, with the number of shares ultimately issued, if any, ranging up to 150% of the specified target shares.
On February 7, 2018, the Company entered into the Second Amendment to the Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (2nd Amendment) to reduce the interest rate margins by 0.25%, 0.50%, and 0.25%, across all leverage ratios for the Term Loan A Facility, the Term Loan B Facility and the Revolving Credit Facility, respectively. Effective upon execution of the 2nd Amendment, the applicable margin with respect to Term Loan A Facility and borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility range from 1.25% to 2.00% for Eurocurrency Rate loans, and 0.25% to 1.00% for Base Rate loans. Under the 2nd Amendment, interest rate margins for the Term Loan B Facility are 2.00%, subject to a 0.75% floor for Eurocurrency Rate loans, or 1.00% for Base Rate loans. The Company incurred and paid $2 million in fees associated with the 2nd amendment, including $1 million of deferred financing fees. 


item2.txt
In fiscal 2018, we generated greater than 95% of our revenues from contracts with the U.S. government, including subcontracts on which we perform. Our business performance is affected by the overall level of U.S. government spending and the alignment of our offerings and capabilities with the budget priorities of the U.S. government. A recently-passed omnibus appropriations measure increased discretionary federal spending by $143 billion above previous spending caps for government fiscal year (GFY) 2018, providing additional business opportunities for the Company. A budget agreement passed in February would extend and increase those spending levels for GFY 2019. But beyond that two-year window, there remains uncertainty on whether, and by how much, discretionary spending will be increased above the budget caps put in place in August 2011. Without additional action, federal expenditures would decline sharply in GFY 2020.
Despite the budget and competitive pressures impacting the industry, we believe we are well positioned to protect and expand existing customer relationships and benefit from opportunities that we have not previously pursued. Our scale, size and prime contractor leadership position are expected to help differentiate us from our competitors, especially on large contracts. We believe our long-term, trusted customer relationships and deep technical expertise provide us with the sophistication to handle highly complex mission-critical contracts. SAIC’s value proposition is found in the proven ability to serve as a trusted adviser to our customers. In doing so, we leverage our expertise and scale to help them execute their mission.
We succeed as a business based on the solutions we deliver, our past performance and our ability to compete on price. Our solutions, inspired through innovation, are based on best practices and technology transfer. Our past performance was achieved by employee dedication and customer focus. Our current cost structure, as well as our ongoing efforts to reduce costs by strategic sourcing and developing repeatable offerings, is expected to allow us to compete effectively on price in an evolving environment. Our ability to be competitive in the future will continue to be driven by our reputation of successful program execution, competitive cost structure and efficiencies in assigning the right people, at the right time, in support of our contracts.
Our business and program management process is directed by professional managers focused on satisfying our customers by providing high quality services in achieving program requirements. These managers carefully monitor performance by constantly evaluating risks and opportunities. Through each program life cycle, managers review performance and update estimates to reflect their understanding of the best information available. For performance obligations satisfied over time, updates to estimates are recognized on inception-to-date activity, during the period of adjustment, resulting in either a favorable or unfavorable impact to operating income.
Operating Income. Operating income as a percentage of revenues decreased to 5.6% for the three months ended May 4, 2018 from 5.7% in the comparable prior year period, driven by higher supply chain material content which generate lower operating margins. Operating margins were also impacted by net unfavorable changes in estimates on contracts in both the current quarter and the prior year quarter driven primarily by increased costs on platform integration programs.
EBITDA. Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) is a non-GAAP financial performance measure that is calculated by taking net income and excluding interest, provision for income taxes, and depreciation and amortization. While we believe that this non-GAAP financial measure may be useful in evaluating our financial information, it should be considered as supplemental in nature and not as a substitute for financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. Other companies may define similar measures differently.
Net Bookings and Backlog. Net bookings represent the estimated amount of revenues to be earned in the future from funded and negotiated unfunded contract awards that were received during the period, net of adjustments to estimates on previously awarded contracts. We calculate net bookings as the period’s ending backlog plus the period’s revenues less the prior period’s ending backlog and initial backlog obtained through acquisitions.
Backlog represents the estimated amount of future revenues to be recognized under negotiated contracts as work is performed. We do not include in backlog estimates of revenues to be derived from IDIQ contracts, but rather record backlog and bookings when task orders are awarded on these contracts. Given that much of our revenue is derived from IDIQ contract task orders that renew annually, bookings on these contracts tend to refresh annually as the task orders are renewed. Additionally, we do not include in backlog contract awards that are under protest until the protest is resolved in our favor.
•Funded Backlog. Funded backlog for contracts with government agencies primarily represents estimated amounts of revenue to be earned in the future from contracts for which funding is appropriated less revenues previously recognized on these contracts. It does not include the unfunded portion of contracts in which funding is incrementally appropriated or authorized on a quarterly or annual basis by the U.S. government and other customers even though the contract may call for performance over a number of years. Funded backlog for contracts with non-government customers represents the estimated value on contracts, which may cover multiple future years, under which we are obligated to perform, less revenues previously recognized on these contracts.
•Negotiated Unfunded Backlog. Negotiated unfunded backlog represents estimated amounts of revenue to be earned in the future from negotiated contracts for which funding has not been appropriated or otherwise authorized and from unexercised priced contract options. Negotiated unfunded backlog does not include any estimate of future potential task orders expected to be awarded under IDIQ, GSA Schedules or other master agreement contract vehicles.
We expect to recognize revenue from a substantial portion of our funded backlog within the next twelve months. However, the U.S. government can adjust the scope of services of or cancel contracts at any time. Similarly, certain contracts with commercial customers include provisions that allow the customer to cancel prior to contract completion. Most of our contracts have cancellation terms that would permit us to recover all or a portion of our incurred costs and fees (contract profit) for work performed.


item3.txt
Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk


item4.txt
Item 4. Controls and Procedures
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures


part2.txt
Item 1. Legal Proceedings
Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities


