item1.txt
Science Applications International Corporation (collectively, with its consolidated subsidiaries, the “Company”) is a leading provider of technical, engineering and enterprise information technology (IT) services primarily to the U.S. government. The Company provides engineering and integration services for large, complex projects and offers a broad range of services with a targeted emphasis on higher-end, differentiated technology services. The Company is organized as a matrix comprised of three customer facing operating segments supported by three market service line organizations. Each of the Company’s three customer facing operating segments is focused on providing the Company’s comprehensive technical and enterprise IT service offerings to one or more agencies of the U.S federal government. The Company's operating segments are aggregated into one reportable segment for financial reporting purposes.
During fiscal 2018, the Company initiated restructuring activities (the "Restructuring") intended to improve operational efficiency, reduce costs, and better position the Company to drive future growth. The restructuring activities consisted of involuntary and voluntary terminations and the consolidation of existing leased facilities. The Company completed the Restructuring in fiscal 2018 with total restructuring costs of approximately $13 million, comprised of $6 million for employee severance and $7 million of lease exit costs. $2 million of restructuring costs for employee severance were included in cost of revenues for the three and six months ended August 4, 2017 in the condensed and consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income. The Company made $1 million in cash payments for severance during the six months ended August 3, 2018 and made no cash payments for severance during the three months ended August 3, 2018 or the three and six months ended August 4, 2017. The liability associated with lease exit costs will be substantially settled within three years of the completion of the Restructuring.
The Company’s fixed interest rate swaps are considered over-the-counter derivatives, and fair value is calculated using a standard pricing model for interest rate swaps with contractual terms for maturities, amortization and interest rates. Level 2, or market observable inputs (such as yield and credit curves), are used within the standard pricing models in order to determine fair value. The fair value is an estimate of the amount that the Company would pay or receive as of a measurement date if the agreements were transferred to a third party or canceled. See Note 7 for further discussion on the Company’s derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which supersedes the existing lease accounting standards (Topic 840). Under the new guidance, a lessee will be required to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities for all leases with lease terms in excess of twelve months. The recognition, measurement and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee primarily will depend on its classification as either a finance lease or operating lease. The criteria for distinction between a finance lease and an operating lease are substantially similar to existing lease guidance for capital leases and operating leases. Some changes to lessor accounting have been made to conform and align that guidance with the lessee guidance and other areas within GAAP, such as Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606). In July 2018, the FASB provided an optional transition method of adoption, permitting entities to recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the period of adoption as opposed to the beginning of the earliest period presented in the financial statements. ASU 2016-02 becomes effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal 2020. The Company intends to adopt using the optional transition method. The Company has commenced the assessment phase of the project and is evaluating the impact on its financial statements from the future adoption of the standard.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-15, Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That Is a Service Contract, which aligns the capitalization requirements for implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the existing capitalization requirements for implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software (Subtopic 350-40). ASU 2018-15 becomes effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 and may be adopted either retrospectively or prospectively. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this standard on its financial statements.
Over time performance obligations may involve a series of recurring services, such as network operations and maintenance, operation and program support services, IT outsourcing services, and other IT arrangements where the Company is standing ready to provide support, when-and-if needed. Such performance obligations are satisfied over time because the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits of our performance as services are provided. Alternatively, over time performance obligations may involve the completion of a contract deliverable. Examples include systems integration, network engineering, network design, and engineering and build services. Deliverable-based performance obligations are satisfied over time when the Company’s performance creates or enhances an asset that is controlled by the customer, or when the Company’s performance creates an asset that is customized to the customer’s specifications and the Company has a right to payment, including profit, for work performed to date. 
For recurring services performance obligations, the Company measures progress using either a cost input measure (cost-to-cost), a time-elapsed output measure, or the as-invoiced practical expedient. A cost input measure typically is applied to the Company’s cost-reimbursable contracts. Revenue is recognized based on the ratio of costs incurred to total estimated costs at completion. Award or incentive fees are allocated to the distinct periods to which they relate. For fixed-price contracts, a time-elapsed output measure is applied to fixed consideration, such that revenue is recognized ratably over the period of performance. Where fixed-price contracts also provide for reimbursement of certain costs, such as travel or other direct costs, consideration may be attributed only to a distinct subset of time within the performance period. The Company’s time-and-material and fixed price-level of effort contracts generally qualify for the as-invoiced practical expedient. Revenue is recognized in the amount to which the Company has a contractual right to invoice. Contract modifications typically create new enforceable rights and obligations, which are accounted for prospectively. Changes to our estimates of the transaction price are recognized as a cumulative adjustment to revenue.
For deliverable-based performance obligations satisfied over time, the Company recognizes revenue using a cost input measure of progress (cost-to-cost), regardless of contract type. Revenue is recognized based on the ratio of costs incurred to total estimated costs at completion, except for certain contracts for which the costs associated with significant materials or hardware procurements are excluded from the measure of progress and revenue is recognized on an adjusted cost-to-cost basis. Contract modifications typically change currently enforceable rights and obligations and are accounted for as a cumulative adjustment to revenue. Changes to our estimates of transaction price are recognized as a cumulative adjustment to revenue.
Recognizing revenue on long-term contracts involves significant estimates and judgments. The transaction price is the estimated amount of consideration we expect to receive for performance under our contracts. Contract terms may include variable consideration, such as reimbursable costs, award and incentive fees, usage-based fees, service-level penalties, performance bonuses, or other provisions that can either increase or decrease the transaction price. Variable amounts generally are determined upon our achievement of certain performance metrics, program milestones or cost targets and may be based upon customer discretion. When making our estimates, the Company considers the customer, contract terms, the complexity of the work and related risks, the extent of customer discretion, historical experience and the potential of a significant reversal of revenue. The Company includes variable consideration in the transaction price only to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is resolved.
Contract fulfillment costs are expensed as incurred except for certain costs incurred for transition, set-up or other fulfillment activities under contracts, which are capitalized and amortized on a straight-line basis over the expected period of benefit, which generally includes the base contract period of performance and anticipated renewal periods. The Company provides for anticipated losses on contracts with the U.S. government by recording an expense for the total expected loss during the period in which the losses are first determined.
Aggregate changes in these estimates increased operating income by $2 million ($0.03 per diluted share) for the three months ended August 3, 2018, decreased operating income by $3 million ($0.05 per diluted share) for the six months ended August 3, 2018, increased operating income by $1 million ($0.01 per diluted share) for the three months ended August 4, 2017, and decreased operating income by $4 million ($0.06 per diluted share) for the six months ended August 4, 2017. In addition, revenues were $2 million and $3 million higher for the three and six months ended August 3, 2018, respectively, due to net revenue recognized from performance obligations satisfied in prior periods. 
Timing of revenue recognition may differ from the timing of billing and cash receipts from customers. Amounts are invoiced as work progresses, typically biweekly or monthly in arrears, or upon achievement of contractual milestones. We record a contract asset when revenue is recognized prior to invoicing, or a contract liability when cash is received in advance of recognizing revenue. A contract asset is a right to consideration that is conditional upon factors other than the passage of time. Contract assets include unbillable receivables and contract retentions, but exclude billed and billable receivables. Billed and billable receivables are rights to consideration which are unconditional other than to the passage of time. Contract liabilities include customer advances, cash collected in excess of revenues and deferred revenue. Contract assets and liabilities are recorded net on a contract-by-contract basis and are generally classified as current based on our contract operating cycle. Deferred revenue attributable to long-term contract material renewal options may be classified as non-current when the option renewal period will not occur within one year of the balance sheet date.
As of August 3, 2018, the Company had $1.0 billion of remaining performance obligations. Remaining performance obligations exclude contracts with original durations of one year or less, contracts in which we recognize revenue using the as-invoiced practical expedient and any variable consideration that is allocated entirely to unsatisfied performance obligations on our supply chain contracts. The Company expects to recognize revenue on approximately 70% of the remaining performance obligations over the next 12 months and approximately 90% over the next 24 months, with the remaining recognized thereafter.
During the six months ended August 3, 2018, the Company granted to certain employees 0.1 million performance share awards with a grant date fair value of $85.31 per award. These awards will cliff vest at the end of the third fiscal year following the grant date, subject to meeting the minimum service requirements and the achievement of certain annual and cumulative financial metrics of the Company’s performance, with the number of shares ultimately issued, if any, ranging up to 150% of the specified target shares.


item2.txt
We are a leading technology integrator providing full life-cycle services and solutions in the technical, engineering and enterprise information technology (IT) markets. We developed our brand by addressing our customers’ mission critical needs and solving their most complex problems for over 45 years. As one of the largest pure-play technical service providers to the U.S. government, we serve markets of significant scale and opportunity. Our primary customers are the departments and agencies of the U.S. government. We serve our customers through approximately 1,300 active contracts and task orders and employ more than 15,000 individuals who are led by an experienced executive team of proven industry leaders. Our long history of serving the U.S. government has afforded us the ability to develop strong and longstanding relationships with some of the largest customers in the markets we serve. Substantially all of our revenues and tangible long-lived assets are generated by or owned by entities located in the United States.
On September 9, 2018, we entered into the Merger Agreement by and among SAIC, Engility Holdings, Inc. ("Engility"), and Raptors Merger Sub, Inc., pursuant to which we will acquire Engility (the “Merger”). At the effective time of the Merger, each outstanding share of Engility common stock will be converted into the right to receive 0.450 shares of SAIC common stock. In connection with the Merger, the Company has obtained a commitment letter from Citigroup Global Markets Inc. for a new seven-year senior secured $1.05 billion term loan facility under our existing credit agreement. The proceeds will be used to repay Engility’s existing credit facility and outstanding notes. The estimated transaction value is $2.5 billion based on a SAIC per share closing price of $89.86 on September 7, 2018, including the repayment of Engility’s net debt. The Merger Agreement has been unanimously approved by both companies’ Board of Directors. The transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including approval of both SAIC and Engility stockholders and clearance under the Hart-Scott Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act, and is expected to close in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019.
In fiscal 2018, we generated greater than 95% of our revenues from contracts with the U.S. government, including subcontracts on which we perform. Our business performance is affected by the overall level of U.S. government spending and the alignment of our offerings and capabilities with the budget priorities of the U.S. government. A recently-passed omnibus appropriations measure increased discretionary federal spending by $143 billion above previous spending caps for government fiscal year (GFY) 2018, providing additional business opportunities for the Company. A budget agreement passed in February would extend and increase those spending levels for GFY 2019. But beyond that two-year window, there remains uncertainty on whether, and by how much, discretionary spending will be increased above the budget caps put in place in August 2011. Without additional action, federal expenditures would decline sharply in GFY 2020.
The U.S. government has increasingly relied on contracts that are subject to a competitive bidding process (including indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity (IDIQ), U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) schedules and other multi-award contracts) which has resulted in greater competition and increased pricing pressure. We expect that a majority of the business that we seek in the foreseeable future will be awarded through a competitive bidding process.
Despite the budget and competitive pressures impacting the industry, we believe we are well positioned to protect and expand existing customer relationships and benefit from opportunities that we have not previously pursued. Our scale, size and prime contractor leadership position are expected to help differentiate us from our competitors, especially on large contracts. We believe our long-term, trusted customer relationships and deep technical expertise provide us with the sophistication to handle highly complex mission-critical contracts. SAIC’s value proposition is found in the proven ability to serve as a trusted adviser to our customers. In doing so, we leverage our expertise and scale to help them execute their mission.
We succeed as a business based on the solutions we deliver, our past performance and our ability to compete on price. Our solutions, inspired through innovation, are based on best practices and technology transfer. Our past performance was achieved by employee dedication and customer focus. Our current cost structure, as well as our ongoing efforts to reduce costs by strategic sourcing and developing repeatable offerings, is expected to allow us to compete effectively on price in an evolving environment. Our ability to be competitive in the future will continue to be driven by our reputation of successful program execution, competitive cost structure and efficiencies in assigning the right people, at the right time, in support of our contracts.
During fiscal 2018, the Company initiated restructuring activities (the "Restructuring") intended to improve operational efficiency, reduce costs, and better position the Company to drive future growth. Management's restructuring activities included involuntary and voluntary terminations and the consolidation of existing leased facilities. Management completed the Restructuring in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018. Total restructuring costs of approximately $13 million were incurred and recognized, comprised of $6 million in severance expense and $7 million in lease exit costs, which included $1 million in accelerated depreciation expense. Refer to "Results of Operations" below, and "Restructuring" in Note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for further details.
Our business and program management process is directed by professional managers focused on satisfying our customers by providing high quality services in achieving program requirements. These managers carefully monitor performance by constantly evaluating risks and opportunities. Through each program life cycle, managers review performance and update estimates to reflect their understanding of the best information available. For performance obligations satisfied over time, updates to estimates are recognized on inception-to-date activity, during the period of adjustment, resulting in either a favorable or unfavorable impact to operating income.
Revenues. Revenues increased $37 million or 3.4% for the three months ended August 3, 2018 as compared to the same period in the prior year due to increased orders in our supply chain portfolio ($31 million) and revenue on new contracts primarily supporting NASA and other federal civilian agencies ($24 million). These increases were partially offset by completion of contracts and other net decreases across our portfolio ($18 million).


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 4. Controls and Procedures


part2.txt
We have provided information about legal proceedings in which we are involved in our fiscal 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we have provided an update to this information in Note 9 of the notes to the condensed and consolidated financial statements contained within this report.
•potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated with the merger.
The exchange ratio will not be adjusted in the event of any change in either the Company or Engility stock price.
The price of SAIC common shares at the closing of the merger may vary from the price on the date the Merger Agreement was executed and the dates of the respective special meetings of our stockholders and Engility’s stockholders. As a result, the market value of the merger consideration may also vary. 
We and Engility will incur direct and indirect costs as a result of the Merger. 


