Risk Factors.”
 Our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in United States (“U.S.”) dollars, in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (“GAAP”).
 The following discussion includes organic net sales growth which is a non‑GAAP financial measure.
See “Non‑GAAP Financial Measure” for additional information regarding this measure.
 TE Connectivity Ltd. (“TE Connectivity” or the “Company,” which may be referred to as “we,” “us,” or “our”) is a global technology and manufacturing leader creating a safer, sustainable, productive, and connected future.
For more than 75 years, our connectivity and sensor solutions, proven in the harshest environments, have enabled advancements in transportation, industrial applications, medical technology, energy, data communications, and the home.
   ·    Our net sales decreased 4.2% and 2.0% in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019, respectively, as compared to the same periods of fiscal 2018, with sales declines in the Transportation Solutions and, to a lesser degree, the Communications Solutions segment, partially offset by growth in the Industrial Solutions segment.
On an organic basis, our net sales decreased 0.5% during the second quarter of fiscal 2019 and increased 0.7% during the first six months of fiscal 2019, as compared to the same periods of fiscal 2018.
   ·    Transportation Solutions—Our net sales decreased 7.6% and 5.0% in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019, respectively, due primarily to sales declines in the automotive end market.
   ·    Industrial Solutions—Our net sales increased 3.6% and 4.4% during the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019, respectively, primarily as a result of increased sales in the aerospace, defense, oil, and gas end market.
   ·    Communications Solutions—Our net sales decreased 4.8% and 1.3% in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019, respectively, due primarily to sales declines in the appliances end market.
   ·    Industrial Solutions—We expect our net sales growth in the aerospace, defense, oil, and gas end market to be offset by declines in the energy and industrial equipment end markets.
In the industrial equipment end market, market weakness in factory automation and controls applications is expected to be partially offset by growth in medical applications.
 We expect diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to be in the range of $1.13 to $1.17 per share in the third quarter of fiscal 2019.
This outlook reflects the negative impact of foreign currency exchange rates on net sales and earnings per share of approximately $120 million and $0.06 per share, respectively, in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
We expect global automotive production to decline approximately 5% in fiscal 2019.
   ·    Industrial Solutions—We expect our net sales increase in the aerospace, defense, oil, and gas end market to be partially offset by declines in the energy end market.
In the industrial equipment end market, we expect market weakness in factory automation and controls applications to be largely offset by growth in medical applications.
 We expect diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to be in the range of $4.88 to $4.98 per share in fiscal 2019.
This outlook reflects the negative impact of foreign currency exchange rates on net sales and earnings per share of approximately $400 million and $0.16 per share, respectively, in fiscal 2019 as compared to fiscal 2018.
Additionally, we are managing our capital resources and monitoring capital availability to ensure that we have sufficient resources to fund future capital needs.
See further discussion in “Liquidity and Capital Resources.”
 In September 2018, Swiss Parliament approved the Federal Act on Tax Reform and AHV Financing (“Swiss Tax Reform”), subject to a referendum and a public vote in May 2019.
 During the first six months of fiscal 2019, we sold our Subsea Communications (“SubCom”) business for net cash proceeds of $297 million and incurred a pre‑tax loss on sale of $86 million.
The SubCom business met the held for sale and discontinued operations criteria and was reported as such in all periods presented on the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Note 3 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding discontinued operations.
 Net sales decreased $150 million, or 4.2%, in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily as a result of the negative impact of foreign currency translation of 4.3% due to the weakening of certain foreign currencies.
Price erosion adversely affected organic net sales by $27 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
 In the first six months of fiscal 2019, net sales decreased $139 million, or 2.0%, as compared to the first six months of fiscal 2018.
Price erosion adversely affected organic net sales by $55 million in the first six months of fiscal 2019.
 See further discussion of net sales below under “Segment Results.”
Increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar, compared to other currencies, will directly affect our reported results as we translate those currencies into U.S. dollars at the end of each fiscal period.
 Approximately 60% of our net sales were invoiced in currencies other than the U.S. dollar in the first six months of fiscal 2019.
   (1)    Net sales to external customers are attributed to individual countries based on the legal entity that records the sale.
 Gross margin decreased $94 million and $144 million in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019, respectively, as compared to the same periods of fiscal 2018.
Gross margin as a percentage of net sales decreased to 32.8% in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 from 34.0% in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 and decreased to 33.0% in the first six months of fiscal 2019 from 34.4% in the same period of fiscal 2018.
 Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses.
Selling, general, and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales decreased to 10.9% in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 from 11.5% in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 and decreased to 11.3% in the first six months of fiscal 2019 from 11.4% in the same period of fiscal 2018.
These initiatives are designed to help us maintain our competitiveness in the industry, improve our operating leverage, and position us for future growth.
 During fiscal 2019, we initiated a restructuring program associated with footprint consolidation and structural improvements impacting all segments.
During fiscal 2018, we initiated a restructuring program associated with footprint consolidation and structural improvements primarily impacting the Industrial Solutions and Transportation Solutions segments.
In connection with these initiatives, we incurred net restructuring charges of $117 million during the first six months of fiscal 2019, of which $107 million related to the fiscal 2019 restructuring program.
Annualized cost savings related to the fiscal 2019 actions commenced during the first six months of fiscal 2019 are expected to be approximately $100 million and are expected to be realized by the end of fiscal 2021.
These incremental actions, which are primarily comprised of employee severance, are expected to result in incremental restructuring charges of approximately $100 million during fiscal 2019.
 In fiscal 2019, we expect total restructuring charges to be approximately $250 million, and we expect total spending, which will be funded with cash from operations, to be approximately $140 million.
 See Note 2 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding net restructuring and other charges.
 See discussion of operating income below under “Segment Results.”
Interest expense decreased $13 million and $12 million during the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019, respectively, due primarily to the expansion of our cross-currency swap program in fiscal 2019.
Under the terms of the fiscal 2019 contracts, we receive interest in U.S. dollars at a weighted-average rate of 3.00% per annum and pay no interest.
See Note 9 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our cross-currency swap program.
See Note 11 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of items impacting income tax expense for the second quarters and first six months of fiscal 2019 and 2018.
 Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations, Net of Income Taxes.
During the first six months of fiscal 2019, we sold our SubCom business for net cash proceeds of $297 million and incurred a pre‑tax loss on sale of $86 million.
The net sales of the business were $41 million and $326 million in the first six months of fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The results for the first six months of fiscal 2019 represent one month of activity.
In the first six months of fiscal 2018, net sales and operating income were negatively impacted by production delays on a program.
See Note 3 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding discontinued operations.
   (1)    Industry end market information is presented consistently with our internal management reporting and may be revised periodically as management deems necessary.
   ·    Automotive—Our organic net sales decreased 4.6% in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 with declines of 9.8% and 3.4% in the Asia–Pacific and EMEA regions, respectively, partially offset by growth of 4.0% in the Americas region.
In the Americas region, our growth resulted from electronification and market share gains.
   ·    Commercial transportation—Our organic net sales increased 1.6% in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 due to content and share gains in the Americas and EMEA regions, partially offset by weakness in the Asia–Pacific region.
   ·    Sensors—Our organic net sales increased 1.0% in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 due primarily to growth in the industrial equipment market.
   ·    Automotive—Our organic net sales decreased 2.6% in the first six months of fiscal 2019 due to declines of 6.4% and 3.1% in the Asia–Pacific and EMEA regions, respectively, partially offset by growth of 7.8% in the Americas region.
In the Americas region, our growth was attributable to electronification and market share gains.
   ·    Commercial transportation—Our organic net sales increased 1.6% in the first six months of fiscal 2019 as a result of content and share gains in the Americas and EMEA regions, partially offset by declines in the Asia–Pacific region.
   ·    Sensors—Our organic net sales increased 2.3% in the first six months of fiscal 2019 primarily as a result of growth in the industrial equipment market.
   (1)    Industry end market information is presented consistently with our internal management reporting and may be revised periodically as management deems necessary.
   ·    Industrial equipment—Our organic net sales increased 0.8% in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 due primarily to strength in medical applications, partially offset by market weakness in factory automation and controls.
   ·    Energy—Our organic net sales increased 4.2% in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 due primarily to strength in the Americas region.
   ·    Industrial equipment—Our organic net sales were flat in the first six months of fiscal 2019 with strength in medical applications offset by market weakness in factory automation and controls.
   ·    Aerospace, defense, oil, and gas—Our organic net sales increased 13.1% in the first six months of fiscal 2019 due primarily to growth in the commercial aerospace, defense, and oil and gas markets.
   ·    Energy—Our organic net sales increased 5.0% in the first six months of fiscal 2019 primarily as a result of strength in the Americas region.
 Excluding these items, operating income increased in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019 primarily as a result of higher volume.
   (1)    Industry end market information is presented consistently with our internal management reporting and may be revised periodically as management deems necessary.
   ·    Data and devices—Our organic net sales were flat in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 with market weakness in the Asia–Pacific region offset by growth in high speed connectivity in data center applications.
   ·    Appliances—Our organic net sales decreased 4.1% in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 due to market weakness in the Asia–Pacific and EMEA regions, partially offset by growth in the Americas region.
   ·    Data and devices—Our organic net sales increased 4.5% in the first six months of fiscal 2019 primarily as a result of increased sales to cloud infrastructure customers and growth in high speed connectivity in data center applications.
   ·    Appliances—Our organic net sales decreased 2.9% in the first six months of fiscal 2019 as a result of market weakness in the Asia–Pacific and EMEA regions, partially offset by growth in the Americas region.
 Excluding these items, operating income increased slightly in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019 as compared to the same periods of fiscal 2018.
We believe that cash generated from operations and, to the extent necessary, these other sources of potential funding will be sufficient to meet our anticipated capital needs for the foreseeable future, including the payment of $250 million of 2.35% senior notes due in 2019.
We may use excess cash to purchase a portion of our common shares pursuant to our authorized share repurchase program, to acquire strategic businesses or product lines, to pay dividends on our common shares, or to reduce our outstanding debt.
The cost or availability of future funding may be impacted by financial market conditions.
 In the first six months of fiscal 2019, net cash provided by continuing operating activities increased $238 million to $883 million from $645 million in the first six months of fiscal 2018.
The increase resulted primarily from higher collections of accounts receivable and fluctuations in cash collateral requirements under our cross-currency swap contracts.
 The amount of income taxes paid, net of refunds, during the first six months of fiscal 2019 and 2018 was $177 million and $208 million, respectively.
 Capital expenditures were $401 million and $439 million in the first six months of fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively.
We expect fiscal 2019 capital spending levels to be approximately 5‑6% of net sales.
We believe our capital funding levels are adequate to support new programs, and we continue to invest in our manufacturing infrastructure to further enhance productivity and manufacturing capabilities.
 During the first six months of fiscal 2019, we received net cash proceeds of $297 million related to the sale of our SubCom business.
See additional information in Note 3 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
 Total debt at March 29, 2019 and September 28, 2018 was $3,982 million and $4,000 million, respectively.
See Note 7 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding debt.
 During the first six months of fiscal 2019, Tyco Electronics Group S.A. (“TEGSA”), our 100%‑owned subsidiary, issued $350 million aggregate principal amount of senior floating rate notes due June 2020.
The notes are TEGSA’s unsecured senior obligations and rank equally in right of payment with all existing and any future senior indebtedness of TEGSA and senior to any subordinated indebtedness that TEGSA may incur.
TEGSA had no borrowings under the Credit Facility at March 29, 2019 or September 28, 2018.
 The Credit Facility contains a financial ratio covenant providing that if, as of the last day of each fiscal quarter, our ratio of Consolidated Total Debt to Consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the Credit Facility) for the then most recently concluded period of four consecutive fiscal quarters exceeds 3.75 to 1.0, an Event of Default (as defined in the Credit Facility) is triggered.
The Credit Facility and our other debt agreements contain other customary covenants.
covenants are presently considered restrictive to our operations.
As of March 29, 2019, we were in compliance with all of our debt covenants and believe that we will continue to be in compliance with our existing covenants for the foreseeable future.
 In addition to the Credit Facility, TEGSA is the borrower under our senior notes and commercial paper.
TEGSA’s payment obligations under its senior notes, commercial paper, and Credit Facility are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by its parent, TE Connectivity Ltd.
 Payments of common share dividends to shareholders were $299 million and $281 million in the first six months of fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively.
At March 29, 2019, we had $1.8 billion of availability remaining under our share repurchase authorization.
 In certain instances, we have guaranteed the performance of third parties and provided financial guarantees for uncompleted work and financial commitments.
The terms of these guarantees vary with end dates ranging from fiscal 2019 through the completion of such transactions.
 At March 29, 2019, we had outstanding letters of credit, letters of guarantee, and surety bonds of $307 million.
 As discussed above, in the first six months of fiscal 2019, we sold our SubCom business.
In connection with the sale, we contractually agreed to continue to honor performance guarantees and letters of credit related to the SubCom business’ projects that existed as of the date of sale.
These guarantees had a combined value of approximately $1.7 billion as of March 29, 2019 and are expected to expire at various dates through fiscal 2025; however, the majority are expected to expire within two years.
Also, under the terms of the definitive agreement, we are required to issue up to $300 million of new performance guarantees, subject to certain limitations, for projects entered into by the SubCom business following the sale for a period of up to three years.
During the first six months of fiscal 2019, we issued a guarantee of $70 million for a new project.
See Note 3 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the divestiture of the SubCom business.
 We adopted Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
See Note 1 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our revenue recognition policy and the adoption of ASC 606.
 See Note 1 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding recently issued and adopted accounting pronouncements.
Organic net sales growth represents net sales growth (the most comparable GAAP financial measure) excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rates, and acquisitions and divestitures that occurred in the preceding twelve months, if any.
Organic net sales growth is a useful measure of our performance because it excludes items that are not completely under management’s control, such as the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, and items that do not reflect the underlying growth of the company, such as acquisition and divestiture activity.
Management uses organic net sales growth to monitor and evaluate performance.
It is also a significant component in our incentive compensation plans.
We believe that investors benefit from having access to the same financial measures that management uses in evaluating operations.
The tables presented in “Results of Operations” and “Segment Results” provide reconciliations of organic net sales growth to net sales growth calculated in accordance with GAAP.
 Organic net sales growth is a non‑GAAP financial measure and should not be considered a replacement for results in accordance with GAAP.
This non‑GAAP financial measure may not be comparable to similarly‑titled measures reported by other companies.
 Certain statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q are “forward‑looking statements” within the meaning of the U.S.
Investors should not place undue reliance on any forward‑looking statements.
We do not have any intention or obligation to update forward‑looking statements after we file this report except as required by law.
   ·    the possible effects on us of various non‑U.S.
   (ii)    open market purchases totaling 2,347,300 common shares, summarized on a trade‑date basis, in conjunction with the share repurchase program announced in September 2007.
The share repurchase program does not have an expiration date.
