We monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis our disclosure controls and procedures in order to improve their overall effectiveness. In the course of these evaluations, we modify and refine our internal processes and controls as conditions warrant.
•Reviewing and revising internal procedures surrounding valuation accounting, including the use of independent third party resources, internal review and documentation processes. 
million. The new credit facility, also, allows for up to $150 million of incremental facilities. The Regions Secured Credit Facility carries a leverage-based LIBOR related interest rate, which currently stands at approximately 3.88%. 
On November 3, 2017 the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into the Fifth Amendment (the “Fifth Amendment”) to the Regions Secured Credit Facility, dated August 5, 2014, among the Company, Regions Bank as Administrative and Collateral Agent ("Regions") and certain other lenders party thereto (as amended, the "Credit Agreement") to exercise $50 million of its aggregate $100 million accordion option, increasing the total Term Loan Commitment to$175 million. $20 million of the increase was funded on November 3, 2017 and the remaining $30 million shall be disbursed upon the satisfaction of certain closing requirements set forth in the Fifth Amendment. Both such disbursements are tied to permitted acquisitions as set forth in the Fifth Amendment.
On November 3, 2017, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into the Fourth Amendment and Waiver (the “Fourth Amendment”) to the Credit Agreement. The Fourth Amendment waives certain technical defaults related to the failure to give required notice with respect to i) the existence of a subsidiary having intellectual property with an aggregate value above a stipulated amount and ii) the additional investment in a joint venture entity resulting in that entity becoming a subsidiary of the Company for the purpose of the Credit Agreement. In addition to such waiver, the Fourth Amendment also loosened the leverage ratios the Company is required to satisfy in connection with permitted acquisitions and for compliance generally.
The exhibits filed herewith or incorporated by reference herein are listed in the Exhibit Index attached hereto.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
