As used herein, the terms “Ebix,” “the Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” refer to Ebix, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries as a combined entity, except where it is clear that the terms mean only Ebix, Inc.
Ebix, Inc., and its subsidiaries, (“Ebix” or the “Company”) is a leading international supplier of on-demand infrastructure exchanges to the insurance, financial, and healthcare industries. In the insurance sector, the Company’s main focus is to develop and deploy a wide variety of insurance and reinsurance exchanges on an on-demand basis, while also providing software-as-a-service ("SaaS") enterprise solutions in the area of customer relationship management ("CRM"), front-end and back-end systems, outsourced administrative and risk compliance. The Company's products feature fully customizable and scalable on-demand software designed to streamline the way insurance professionals manage distribution, marketing, sales, customer service, and accounting activities. With a "Phygital” strategy that combines physical distribution outlets in many Association of Southwest Asian Nations ("ASEAN") countries to an Omni-channel online digital platform, the Company’s EbixCash Financial exchange portfolio of services encompasses dominance in the areas of domestic and international money remittance, foreign exchange ("Forex"), travel, pre-paid gift cards, utility payments, lending, and wealth management in India and other Asian markets. 
Ebix's goal is to be the leading powerhouse of insurance and financial transactions in the world. The Company’s technology vision is to focus on the convergence of all channels, processes and entities in a manner such that data seamlessly flows once a data entry has initially been made. Ebix strives to work collaboratively with clients to develop innovative technology strategies and solutions that address specific business challenges and requirements. Ebix combines the newest technologies with its capabilities in consulting, systems design and integration, IT and business process outsourcing, applications software, and web and application hosting to meet the individual needs of organizations.
The Company’s corporate headquarters, including substantially all of our corporate administration and finance functions, is located in Johns Creek, Georgia where we own a commercial office building. In addition, the Company and its subsidiaries lease office space primarily for sales and operations support in Salt Lake City, Utah, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Pasadena, California, Birmingham, Alabama, Irvine, California and Phoenix, Arizona. Additionally, the Company leases office space in New Zealand, Australia, Singapore, Dubai, Brazil, Canada, and the United Kingdom for support, operations and sales offices. The Company also owns five facilities in India. The Indian facilities provide software development and other technical and business process outsourcing services. In these operating offices, Ebix employs insurance and technology professionals who provide products, services, support and consultancy to thousands of customers across six continents.
Operating Revenue 
The Company derives its revenues primarily from subscription and transaction fees pertaining to services delivered over our exchanges or from our application service provider "ASP" platforms, fees for business process outsourcing services, and fees for software development projects including associated fees for consulting, implementation, training, and project management provided to customers with installed systems, e-governance solutions to governmental agencies in the health and education sectors, as well as foreign exchange, remittance (both inward and outward) and related services, including travel, from our new financial exchange. International revenue accounted for 69.4% and 62.4% of the Company’s total revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
In the table above for the three months ending September 30, 2019 and 2018 respectfully, there is $3.8 million, and $2.1 million of Insurance Exchange revenues derived in India that are being reported within the EbixCash Exchange channel only above. Similarly, for the nine months ending September 30, 2019 and 2018 respectfully, there is $13.1 million, and $2.1 million of Insurance Exchange revenues derived in India that are being reported within the EbixCash Exchange channel only above.
During the three months ended September 30, 2019 our total operating revenues increased $18.6 million or 14%, to $147.2 million as compared to $128.6 million during the third quarter of 2018. The year-over-year revenues primarily increased as a result of the growth in the EbixCash segment as well as the acquisitions in the travel, foreign exchange, and software solutions sectors during the last twelve months offset by reductions in revenues from the insurance consulting business, EbixHealth JV, and e-governance service contracts executed within the Ebix Vayam Limited JV for Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited "BSNL" (a leading public sector undertaking in the telecommunication sector in India). Reported revenues were impacted by the continuing weakening in the foreign currencies in which we conduct operations (particularly in India, Australia, and United Kingdom) as compared to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar. Specifically, the adverse impact from fluctuations of the exchange rates for the foreign currencies in the countries in which we conduct operations, in the aggregate, reduced reported revenues by $1.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019.
With respect to business acquisitions completed during the years 2019 and 2018 on a pro forma basis, as disclosed in the pro forma financial information table in Note 3, combined revenues increased 5.2% for the three months ending September 30, 2019 versus the same periods in 2018. The 2019 and 2018 pro forma financial information assumes that all business acquisitions made during this period were made on January 1, 2018, whereas the Company's reported condensed consolidated financial statements for the three months ended September 30, 2019 only includes the revenues from these businesses since the effective date that they were acquired or consolidated by Ebix, being February 2018 for Transcorp, April 2018 for Centrum, April 2018 for Smartclass, July 2018 for Indus, July 2018 for Mercury, July 2018 for Leisure, August 2018 for Miles, October 2018 for Routier, October 2018 for Business Travels, October 2018 for Aha Taxis, December 2018 for Pearl, Weizmann, January 2019 for Zillious, January 2019 for Essel and August 2019 for Wallstreet Canada.
Revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 actual and proforma include $198 thousand and $2.6 million revenue, respectively, from the e-governance business. The company has consciously decided to disengage in the e-governance business, leading to an actual and pro forma year-over-year decrease of revenue of $2.4 million in this revenue source. 
•2019 and 2018 pro forma revenue contains actual revenue of the acquired entities before acquisition date, as reported by the sellers, as well as actual revenue of the acquired entities after acquisition, whereas the reported growth in revenues of the acquired entities after acquisition date are only reflected for the period after their acquisition.
•Revenue billed to existing clients from the cross selling of acquired products has been assigned to the acquired section of our business.
Cost of Services Provided
Product Development Expenses
Sales and Marketing Expenses
General and Administrative Expenses
General and administrative expenses increased $18.7 million or 66% to $46.9 million in the third quarter of 2019 as compared to $28.2 million in the third quarter of 2018. As a precautionary measure during the recent quarter, management determined the need for and recognized a $12.1 million reserve against the Company’s $34.9 million of receivables that are due from a public sector entity in India and were billed during the 2016 through 2019 operating periods. Payment of these receivables has been delayed due to liquidity issues at BSNL. The Government of India has recently approved funding to BSNL and he Company expects the accounts to be collectible once the Government funding reaches BSNL. During the past quarter the Company also incurred approximately $5.5 million of additional facility costs, commission expense associated with the Company's continued expansion of EbixCash in India, and audit and legal expenses.
Amortization and Depreciation Expenses
Amortization and depreciation expenses increased $1.1 million or 44% to $3.6 million in the third quarter of 2019 as compared to $2.5 million in the third quarter of 2018 primarily due to amortization costs associated with the Company's 2018 India acquisitions.
Interest Income
Interest income decreased $4 thousand or 4% to $99 thousand in the third quarter of 2019 as compared to $103 thousand in the third quarter of 2018, primarily due to decreased balances in interest bearing accounts.
.Interest Expense
Interest expense increased $3.5 million or 47%, to $11.0 million in the third quarter of 2019 as compared to $7.5 million in the third quarter of 2018. Interest expense increased primarily due to the increase in the average outstanding balance on our commercial banking credit facilities, which increased 17% to $721.7 million during Q3 2019 from $618.1 million during Q3 of 2018, as well as an increase in the underlying interest rate which increased to 4.97% for Q3 2019 versus 4.63% for Q3 2018. Additionally, interest expense increased due to increased balances in the working capital facility of our EbixCash operations in India which carry interest rates 9% to 10%.
Foreign Currency Exchange Gain (Loss)
Net foreign currency exchange loss for the three months ended September 30, 2019 in the amount of $641 thousand consists of $401 thousand of losses realized upon the settlement of receivables or payables and re-measurement of cash balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the respective operating division recording the instrument and $240 thousand of unrealized losses pertaining to the re-measurement of outstanding receivables or payables denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the respective operating division recording the instrument.
Operating Revenue
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019 our total operating revenues increased $72.9 million or 20%, to $434.4 million as compared to $361.5 million during the same period in 2018. The year-over-year revenues primarily increased as a result of the growth in the EbixCash segment as well as the acquisitions made bu Ebix in the last twelve months, partially offset by reductions in revenues from our insurance consulting business, our EbixHealth JV and our e-governance service contracts executed within the Ebix Vayam Limited JV for BSNL. Reported revenues were impacted by the continuing weakening in the foreign currencies in which we conduct operations (particularly in India, Australia, and United Kingdom) as compared to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar. Specifically, the adverse impact from fluctuations of the exchange rates for the foreign currencies in the countries in which we conduct operations, in the aggregate reduced reported revenues by $9.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019. International revenue accounted for 68.7% and 59.4% of the Company’s total revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
With respect to business acquisitions completed during the years 2019 and 2018 on a pro forma basis, as disclosed in the pro forma financial information table in Note 3, combined revenues decreased (0.8)% for the nine months ending September 30, 2019 versus the same periods in 2018. The 2019 and 2018 pro forma financial information assumes that all business acquisitions made during this period were made on January 1, 2018, whereas the Company's reported condensed consolidated financial statements for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 only includes the revenues from these businesses since the effective date that they were acquired or consolidated by Ebix, being February 2018 for Transcorp, April 2018 for Centrum, April 2018 for Smartclass, July 2018 for Indus, July 2018 for Mercury, July 2018 for Leisure, August 2018 for Miles, October 2018 for Routier, October 2018 for Business Travels, October 2018 for Wahh Taxis, December 2018 for Pearl, Weizmann, January 2019 for Zillious, January 2019 for Essel and August 2019 for Wallstreet Canada.
Revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 actual and proforma include $444 thousand and $12.8 million revenue, respectively, from the e-governance business. The company has consciously decided to disengage in the e-governance business, leading to an actual and proforma year over year decrease of revenue of $12.4 million this revenue outlet. 
•2019 and 2018 pro forma revenue contains actual revenue of the acquired entities before acquisition date, as reported by the sellers, as well as actual revenue of the acquired entities after acquisition, whereas the reported growth in revenues of the acquired entities after acquisition date are only reflected for the period after their acquisition.
•Revenue billed to existing clients from the cross selling of acquired products has been assigned to the acquired section of our business.
Cost of Services Provided
Product Development Expenses
Sales and Marketing Expenses
General and Administrative Expenses
Reported general and administrative expenses increased $26.8 million or 36% to $101.2 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to $74.4 million during the same period in 2018. In Q3 2019, the Company booked a $12.1 million bad debt reserve as a precautionary measure, against the receivables due from a public sector entity, BSNL in India. Payment of these receivables has been delayed due to liquidity issues at BSNL. The Government of India has recently approved funding to BSNL and the Company expects the accounts to be collectible once the Government funding reaches BSNL. During the past nine months the Company also incurred approximately $27 million of additional personnel, commissions and facility costs associated with the India business acquisitions during the recent few years in the foreign exchange, travel and e-learning and software solutions sectors. These costs increases were partially offset by a $(16.5) million reduction of acquisition earn-out accruals year over year for ItzCash, Indus and Wdev.
 Amortization and Depreciation Expenses
Amortization and depreciation expenses increased $3.1 million or 39% to $11.0 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to $7.9 million during the same period in 2018 primarily due to amortization costs associated with the Company's 2018 India acquisitions.
Interest Income
Interest income increased $269 thousand or 87% to $578 thousand during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to $309 thousand during the same period in 2018 primarily due to increased balances in interest bearing accounts.
Interest Expense
Interest expense increased $14.5 million or 80% to $32.6 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to $18.1 million during the same period in 2018. Interest expense increased primarily due to the increase in the average outstanding balance on our commercial banking credit facilities, which increased 41% to $724.2 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, from $514.0 million during the nine months ending September 30 2018, as well as an increase in the underlying average interest rate which increased to an average of 5.03% during the nine months ending September 30, 2019 versus 4.4% for the same nine month period in 2018. Additionally, interest expense increased due to increased balances in the working capital facility of our EbixCash operations in India which carry interest rates 9% to 10%.
Foreign Currency Exchange Gain (Loss)
Net foreign currency exchange losses for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 in the amount of $495 thousand consists of $174 thousand of losses realized upon the settlement of receivables or payables and re-measurement of cash balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the respective operating division recording the instrument, and $321 thousand of unrealized losses pertaining to the re-measurement of outstanding receivables or payables denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the respective operating division recording the instrument.
The Company's ability to generate significant cash flows from ongoing operating activities is one of its fundamental financial strengths. Our principal sources of liquidity are the cash flows provided by the Company's operating activities, the Company's commercial banking credit facility, and cash and cash equivalents on hand. Due to the effect of temporary or timing 
Our cash and cash equivalents were $124.2 million and $147.8 million at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively. The $4.2 million of restricted fiduciary funds is associated with the EbixHealth JV and pertains to un-remitted insurance premiums and claim funds established for the benefit of various carriers which are held in a fiduciary capacity until disbursed.
Our current ratio increased to 1.50 at September 30, 2019 from 1.35 at December 31, 2018 and our working capital position increased to $126.7 million at September 30, 2019 from $110.0 million at the end of 2018.
Business Combinations
The Company seeks to execute accretive business acquisitions in combination with organic growth initiatives as part of its comprehensive business growth and expansion strategy. The Company looks to acquire businesses that are complementary to Ebix's existing products and services.
Effective August 23, 2019, Ebix acquired Canada based WallStreet Canada foreign exchange and outward remittance markets for approximately $2.1 million of upfront consideration plus net working capital.
Effective January 1, 2019, Ebix acquired the assets of India based Essel Forex for approximately $8.7 million, of which $721 thousand remains unpaid, plus possible future contingent earn-out payments of up to $721 thousand based on earned revenues. Ebix funded the entire transaction in cash, using its internal cash reserves. Essel Forex has been one of the five largest foreign exchange providers in India with a wide spectrum of related products including sales of all major currencies, travelers’ checks, demand drafts, remittances, money transfers and prepaid cards primarily for the corporate clients. Besides being a foreign exchange business partner to leading banks such as ICICI, Axis, Indus Ind, Yes and HDFC Bank, Essel Forex has been associated with Western Union and MoneyGram for inward money transfers. 
Effective December 1, 2018, Ebix acquired 74.84% controlling stake in India based Weizmann for $63.1 million and also made a time bound public offer to Weizmann's public shareholders acquire the remaining 25.16% shares for approximately $21.1 million. The $77.35 million reported on the cash flows used for investing activities includes a decrease in previously reported cash acquired of $1.5 million and $12.7 million for an additional 15.1% of the publicly-held Weizmann Forex shares in the second quarter of 2019. As of September 30, 2019, Ebix has approximately 89.94% of the controlling stake in India based Weizmann.
Effective December 1, 2018, Ebix acquired the assets of India based Pearl, a provider of a comprehensive range of B2B and B2C travel services, under the brand name Sastiticket, ranging from domestic and international ticketing, incentives travel, leisure products, luxury holidays, and travel documentation for $3.4 million and it has been integrated with Ebix Travels’ operations, realizing operational synergies and eliminating certain redundancies.
Effective December 1, 2018, Ebix acquired India based Lawson, a B2B provider of travel services and international ticketing, for $2.7 million and has been integrated with Ebix Travels’ operations to realize operational synergies and a wider country wide footprint.
Effective October 1, 2018, Ebix acquired the assets of India based Business Travels for $1.1 million and it has been integrated with Ebix Travels’ operations to expand the wholesale travel and consolidation business. Consideration of $414 thousand was paid during the fourth quarter of 2018 and $689 thousand during the first quarter of 2019.
Effective August 1, 2018, Ebix acquired India based Miles, a provider of on-demand software on wealth and asset management to banks, asset managers and wealth management firms, for approximately $18.3 million, plus possible future contingent earn-out payments of up to $8.3 million based on earned revenues over the subsequent twenty-four month period following the effective date of the acquisition. The Company has determined that the fair value of the contingent earn-out consideration is $5.5 million as of September 30, 2019.
Effective July 1, 2018, Ebix acquired India based Leisure for approximately $2.1 million, with the goal of creating a new travel division to focus on a niche segment of the travel market. 
Effective July 1, 2018, Ebix acquired India based Mercury Travels for approximately $13.2 million, with the goal of creating a new travel division to focus on a niche segment of the travel market. Mercury’s Forex business was integrated into EbixCash’s existing CDL Forex exchange business.
Effective July 1, 2018, Ebix acquired Indus, a global provider of enterprise lending software solutions to financial institutions, captive auto finance and telecom companies, for approximately $22.9 million plus possible future contingent earn-out payments of up to $5.0 million based on earned revenues over the subsequent twenty-four month period following the effective 
date of the acquisition. The Company has determined that the fair value of the contingent earn-out consideration is $1.7 million as of September 30, 2019.
Effective April 1, 2018, Ebix acquired India based Centrum, a leader in India’s foreign exchange and outward remittance markets for approximately $179.5 million. This acquisition was funded June 2018. Centrum was integrated into Ebix’s Financial Exchange EbixCash offering in India and abroad, with key Centrum business executives becoming an integral part of the combined EbixCash senior leadership.
Effective April 1, 2018, Ebix acquired a 60% stake in India based Smartclass , a leading e-learning Company engaged in the business of education services, development of education products, and implementation of education solutions for K-12 Schools. Under the terms of the agreement Ebix paid $8.6 million in cash for its stake in Smartclass.
Effective February 1, 2018, Ebix acquired Transcorp for upfront cash consideration in the amount of $7.25 million, of which $6.55 million was funded with cash and $700 thousand assumed in liabilities. 
Yatra Merger Agreement
As previously disclosed, on July 16 2019, the Company entered into a Merger Agreement with Yatra Online, Inc., a Cayman Islands exempted company limited by shares (“Yatra”), and EbixCash Travels Inc., a Cayman Islands exempted company limited by shares and wholly-owned subsidiary of Ebix (“Merger Sub”). The Merger Agreement provides, among other things, that, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth therein, Merger Sub will merge with and into Yatra, with Yatra surviving as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Ebix.
Completion of the Merger is subject to customary closing conditions, including (i) the adoption of the Merger Agreement by the affirmative vote of a majority of at least two-thirds of the Yatra shareholders entitled to vote at an extraordinary general meeting duly called for the purpose of voting on the Special Resolution to approve the Merger and Merger Agreement (the “Yatra Stockholder Approval”), (ii) the Series Y Preferred Stock to be issued in the Merger being authorized for listing on Nasdaq, (iii) there being in effect no Cayman Islands law, United States, federal, state or local, or any foreign, law, constitution, treaty, convention, ordinance, code, rule, statute or regulation enacted, issued, adopted, promulgated, entered into or applied by a relevant governmental entity, that following the signing of the Merger Agreement or order prohibits, renders illegal or enjoins the consummation of the Merger, (iv) the expiration or termination of the waiting period applicable to the Merger under any applicable federal, state, foreign or supranational antitrust laws, and (v) the declaration of the effectiveness by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) of the Registration Statement on Form S-4 to be filed with the SEC by Ebix in connection with the registration of the Series Y Preferred Stock to be issued in the Merger. The obligations of each party to consummate the Merger are also conditioned upon (i) the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the other party as of the closing (subject to customary materiality qualifiers), (ii) the absence of any material breach by the other party of any of its covenants or agreements under the Merger Agreement, and (iii) the absence of a material adverse effect with respect to the other party. The Company expects to file the Registration Statement during the fourth quarter of 2019, and anticipates that the Merger will close late in the first quarter or early the second quarter of 2020.
Operating Activities
Net cash provided by our operating activities was $79.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019. The primary components of the cash provided by our operating activities during the nine-month period consisted of net income of $75.1 million, net of $(17.1) million of non-cash gains recognized when reducing certain earn-out contingent liabilities, $321 thousand of unrealized foreign currency exchange loss, $11.0 million of depreciation and amortization, $(6.6) million of net loss attributable to a non-controlling interest, $2.5 million of non-cash share-based compensation, $5.2 million of right-of-use assets amortization, $1.9 million of amortization of capitalized software development costs and $6.9 million of net funding provided from working capital requirements primarily associated with the increases in other current liabilities and other assets, offset by decreases in deferred revenue, lease liabilities and provision for deferred taxes. During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, the Company made $7.4 million of tax payments.
Net cash provided by our operating activities was $74.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018. The primary components of the cash provided by our operating activities during that nine-month period consisted of net income of $84.6 million, net of $1.3 million of unrealized foreign currency exchange gains, $7.9 million of depreciation and amortization, $178 thousand of net income attributable to a non-controlling interest, $2.2 million of non-cash share-based compensation, and $1.6 million of amortization of capitalized software development costs. Partially offsetting this net cash inflow was $(23.0) million of working capital requirements primarily due to increased outstanding trade accounts receivable and other assets and a decrease in deferred revenues. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Company made $9.3 million of tax payments including $2.5 million of minimum alternative tax payments in India, which is a component of net deferred tax assets on the Company's Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Investing Activities
Net cash used for investing activities during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 was $93.3 million, and consisted of $77.4 million (net of $11.3 million cash acquired) used for the acquisition of Weizmann (acquired December 2018), $8.0 million used for other Q4 2018 acquisition in India not previously funded, $9.8 million used for the acquisition of Zillious (net of $279 thousand cash acquired), $7.9 million (net of cash acquired) used for the acquisition of Essel, $942 thousand (net of $1.2 million cash acquired) used for the acquisition of Wallstreet Canada, $4.9 million to reacquire Paul Merchant's 10% equity interest in Ebix’s combined international remittance business in India, $5.9 million primarily for capital expenditures in India and $4.1 million for software development costs that were capitalized. Partially offsetting these outflows was $25.7 million from the net maturities of marketable securities (specifically bank certificates of deposit).
Financing Activities
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, net cash provided by financing activities was $6.1 million which consisted of $13.5 million provided by the Company's revolving credit facility with Regions Bank, $6.0 million of net proceeds from short term third party loans funding part of EbixCash operations, and $18.9 million net funds provided by the EbixCash working capital facility in India. Partially offsetting the cash inflows were $6.9 million to pay quarterly dividends to our common stockholders, $13.0 million used to repurchase shares of our common stock, $11.3 million was used to make the scheduled payments against the existing term loan with Regions Bank and $962 thousand was used for payments of long term debt. 
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, net cash provided by financing activities was $234.3 million which consisted of $249.5 million provided by the refinancing and borrowing from the amended and expanded syndicated credit facility with Regions Bank, and a net $609 thousand provided by the EbixCash overdraft facility in India. Partially offsetting this cash inflow were $7.1 million was used to pay quarterly dividends to our common stockholder, $2.2 million used to repurchase shares of our common stock and $6.5 million was used to make the scheduled payments against the existing term loan with Regions.
Commercial Bank Financing Facility
On September 27, 2019, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into the Ninth Amendment (the “Ninth Amendment”) to the Credit Agreement which amended the definition of “Consolidated EBITDA" to add back the derivative legal 
settlement, “Indebtedness” to disqualify equity interests to be issued regarding the Yatra Online acquisition, and modified the maximum consolidated debt leverage ratios allowed.
On November 27, 2018, Ebix entered into the Eighth Amendment to the Regions Secured Credit Facility, dated August 5, 2014, among the Company, Regions Bank (“Regions”) and certain other lenders party thereto (as amended, the "Credit Agreement") to exercise $101.25 million of its aggregate $150 million accordion option, increasing the then total Term Loan Commitment to $301.25 million from $250 million, with initial repayments starting December 31, 2018 due in the amount of $3.77 million for the first six quarters and increasing thereafter. The revolving credit facility increased from $400 million to $450 million. The Credit Agreement carries a leverage-based LIBOR related interest rate, which currently stands at approximately 4.8%. The expanded credit facility will continue to be used to fund the Company's future growth and share repurchase initiatives
On April 9, 2018, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into the Seventh Amendment (the “Seventh Amendment”) to the Credit Agreement increasing the permitted indebtedness in the form of unsecured convertible notes from $250 million to $300 million.
At September 30, 2019, the outstanding balance on the term loan was $279.9 million of which $18.8 million is due within the next twelve months, with $11.3 million in payments having been made during the nine months ended September 30, 2019. This term loan also carried an interest rate of 4.81% . The current and long-term portions of the term loan are included in the respective current and long-term sections of the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, the amounts of which were $18.8 million and $261.1 million, respectively, at September 30, 2019. 
For a presentation regarding material changes outside the ordinary course of business to the Company's contractual obligations please refer to Notes 4 and 5 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
Application of Critical Accounting Policies 
Revenue Recognition
The Company derives its revenues primarily from software subscription and transaction fees, software license fees, financial transaction fees, risk compliance solution services fees, and professional service fees including associated fees for consulting, implementation, training, and project management provided to customers with installed systems and applications.
•identification of the contract, or contracts, with a customer;
•allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract; and
EbixCash Exchanges ("EbixCash") 
EbixCash also offers several other services, primarily including payment services and ticketing and travel services for which revenue is impacted by varying factors. EbixCash acts as the principal in transactions and reports revenue on a gross basis, as EbixCash controls the service at all times prior to transfer to the customer, is primarily responsible for fulfilling the customer contracts, has the risk of loss, and has the ability to establish transaction prices.
Foreign Exchange and Outward Remittance Services
For EbixCash’s foreign exchange and payment services, customers agree to terms and conditions for all transactions, either at the time of initiating a transaction or signing a contract with EbixCash to provide payment services on the customer’s behalf. In the majority of EbixCash’s foreign exchange and payment services, EbixCash makes payments to the recipient to satisfy its performance obligation to the customer, and therefore, EbixCash recognizes revenue on foreign exchange and payment services when this performance obligation has been fulfilled.
Consumer Payment Services
EbixCash Travel revenues are primarily derived from commissions and transaction fees received from various travel providers and international exchanges involved in the sale of travel to the consumer. EbixCash travel revenue is for a single performance obligation and is recognized at a point in time. Travel revenues include reservation commissions and transaction net revenues (i.e., the amount charged to travelers less the amount owed to travel service providers) in connection with our reservation services; ancillary fees, including travel insurance-related revenues and certain reservation booking fees; and credit card processing rebates and customer processing fees. EbixCash Travel services include the sale of hotel rooms, airline tickets, bus tickets and train tickets. EbixCash’s Travel revenue is derived from ticket sales, wherein the commissions payable to EbixCash Travel, along with any transaction fees paid by travel providers and travel exchanges, is recognized as revenue after completion of the service. The transaction price on such services is agreed upon at the time of the purchase.
EbixCash Travel revenue for the corporate MICE (Meetings, Incentives, Conferences, and Exhibitions) packages is recognized at full purchase value at the completion of the obligation with the corresponding costs recorded under direct expenses. For MICE revenues, EbixCash Travel acts as the principal in transactions, and accordingly reports revenue on a gross basis. EbixCash Travel controls the service at all times prior to transfer to the customer, is responsible for fulfilling the customer contracts, has the risk of loss, and has the ability to establish transaction prices.
Insurance Exchanges
Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS")
The Company allocates the transaction price to each distinct performance obligation using the relative stand-alone selling price. Determining the stand-alone selling price may require significant judgement. The stand-alone selling price is the price at which an entity has sold or would sell a promised good or service separately to a customer. The Company determines the stand-alone selling price based on observable price of products or service sold separately in comparable circumstances, when such observable prices are available. When standalone selling price is not directly observable, the Company estimates the stand-alone selling price using the market assessment approach by considering historical pricing and other market factors.
Transaction Fees
Professional Services
Risk Compliance Services ("RCS") 
RCS revenues consist of two revenue streams—Certificates of Insurance (COI) and Consulting Services. COI revenues are derived from consideration paid by customers for the creation and tracking of certificates of insurance. These are transactional-based revenues. Consulting Services revenues are driven by distinct consulting service engagements rendered to customers for which revenues are recognized using the output method on a time and material basis as the services are performed.
The Company provides services to issue and track certificates of insurance in the United States and Australian markets. Revenue is derived from transaction fees for each certificate issued or tracked. The Company recognizes revenue at the issuance of each certificate or over the period the certificate is being tracked.
Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Receivable
Valuation of Goodwill and Other Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets
Goodwill represents the cost in excess of the fair value of the net assets of acquired businesses. Indefinite-lived intangible assets represent the fair value of acquired contractual customer relationships for which future cash flows are expected to continue 
The aforementioned quantitative testing process involves comparing the reporting unit carrying values to their respective fair values. We determine the fair value of our reporting units by applying the discounted cash flow method using the present value of future estimated net cash flows. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, then no further testing is required. However, if a reporting unit's fair value were to be less than its carrying value, we would then determine the amount of the impairment charge, if any, which would be the amount that the carrying value of the reporting unit's goodwill exceeded its implied value. Projections of cash flows are based on our views of growth rates, operating costs, anticipated future economic conditions and the appropriate discount rates relative to risk and estimates of residual values. We believe that our estimates are consistent with assumptions that marketplace participants would use in their estimates of fair value. The use of different estimates or assumptions for our projected discounted cash flows (e.g., growth rates, future economic conditions, discount rates and estimates of terminal values) when determining the fair value of our reporting units could result in different values and may result in a goodwill impairment charge. We perform our annual goodwill impairment evaluation and testing as of October 1st of each year. This evaluation is done during the fourth quarter each year. During the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 we had no impairment of our reporting unit goodwill balances.
Foreign Currency Matters
Effective February 6, 2017, the Company's Board of Directors unanimously approved an additional authorized share repurchase plan of $150.0 million. The Board directed that the repurchases be funded with available cash balances and cash generated by the Company's operating activities. Under certain circumstances, the aggregate amount of repurchases of the Company's equity shares may be limited by the terms and underlying financial covenants regarding the Company's commercial
bank financing facility.
