Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income
See accompanying notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements.
Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income
See accompanying notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements.
Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets
Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity
See accompanying notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements.
Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries
See accompanying notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements.
As of December 31, 2018 there were 200,000 shares totaling $8.8 million of share repurchases that were not settled until January 2019.
Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements
Restricted Cash- The carrying value of our restricted cash was $29.7 million and $4.0 million at March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The March 31, 2019 balance primarily consists of $21.3 million funds in an escrow account to acquire the remaining 25.16% publicly-held Weizmann Forex shares pending the lapse of a time bound public offer. Additionally in connection with a 2016 acquisition, there is upfront cash consideration and possible future contingent earn-out payments held in an escrow account contingent upon the acquired business achieving the minimum specified annual net revenue thresholds, which if not achieved would result in said funds being returned to Ebix. The Company also holds fixed deposits pledged with banks for issuance of bank guarantees and letters of credit related to India operations.
•Level 2 Inputs - Other than quoted prices included in Level 1 inputs, which are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the asset or liability.
 A financial instrument's level within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of any input that is significant to the fair value measurement.
•Short-term investments (commercial bank certificates of deposits and mutual funds), for which the fair values are measured as a Level 1 instrument.
Quantitative Information about Level 3 Fair Value Measurements
Sensitivity to Changes in Significant Unobservable Inputs
• identification of the contract, or contracts, with a customer;
• allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract; and
• recognition of revenue when, or as, we satisfy a performance obligation.
For arrangements that include multiple performance obligations, the Company allocates consideration based on their relative fair values.These types of arrangements include obligations pertaining to software licenses, system set-up, and professional services associated with product customization or modification. Delivery of the various contractual obligations typically occurs over periods of less than eighteen months. These arrangements generally do not have refund provisions or have very limited refund terms. 
For arrangements where control is transferred over time, such as software development arrangements involving significant customization, modification, or production, an input or output method is applied that represents a faithful depiction of the progress towards completion of the performance obligation. For arrangements that include variable consideration, the Company assesses whether any amounts should be constrained. 
Financial exchange revenue consists largely of transaction-based fees and fees from corporate and retail gift vouchers. The transaction-based fees are primarily based on a percentage of payment value processed for solutions such as retail and corporate payments, domestic money transfers, and general purpose reloadable cards. Transaction-based fees are recognized at the completion of the transaction. Gift voucher revenue is recognized at full purchase value at time of sale with the corresponding cost of vouchers recorded under direct expenses. The substantial majority of the financial exchange revenue results from single performance obligation transactions.
 Disaggregation of Revenue
Costs to Obtain and Fulfill a Contract
Contract Liabilities
The Company records contract liabilities when it receives payments or invoices in advance of the performance of services. A significant portion of this balance relates to contracts where the customer has paid in advance for the use of our SaaS platforms over a specified period of time. This portion is recognized as the related performance obligation is fulfilled (generally less than one year). The remaining portion of the contract liabilities balance consists primarily of customer-specific customizations that are not distinct from related performance obligations that transfer over time. This portion is recognized over the expected useful life of the customizations.
Accounts Receivable and the Allowance for Doubtful Accounts—Reported accounts receivable include $131.2 million of trade receivables stated at invoice billed amounts and $31.0 million of unbilled receivables (net of the estimated allowance for doubtful accounts receivable in the amount of $6.6 million). The unbilled receivables pertain to certain projects for which the timing of billing is tied to contractual milestones. The Company adheres to such contractually stated performance milestones and accordingly issues invoices to customers as per contract billing schedules. Approximately $8.0 million of contract liabilities is included in billed accounts receivable at March 31, 2019. During the three months ending March 31, 2019 and 2018 the Company recognized and recorded bad debt expense in the amount of $134 thousand and $1.0 million, respectively. Accounts receivable are written off against the allowance account when the Company has exhausted all reasonable collection efforts. During the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, $484 thousand and $40 thousand, respectively, of accounts receivable, which had been specifically reserved for in prior periods, were written off. 
The aforementioned two-step quantitative testing process involves comparing the reporting unit carrying values to their respective fair values; we determine fair value of our reporting units by applying the discounted cash flow method using the present value of future estimated net cash flows. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, then no further testing is required. However, if a reporting unit’s fair value were to be less than its carrying value, we would then determine the amount of the impairment charge, if any, which would be the amount that the carrying value of the reporting unit’s goodwill exceeded its implied value. We perform our annual goodwill impairment evaluation and testing as of September 30 each year or when events or circumstances dictate more frequently.
Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and the year ended December 31, 2018 are reflected in the following table.
Amortization expense recognized in connection with acquired intangible assets was $3.0 million and $2.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-13, Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820) Disclosure Framework-Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement. ASU 2018-13 is intended to improve the effectiveness of ASC 820’s disclosure requirements. The amendments in this ASU are effective for public business entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim periods within that fiscal year. The Company has yet to assess the impact that the adoption of this ASU will have on Ebix's consolidated income statement and balance sheet. 
In June 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-07, Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718) Improvements to Nonemployee Share-Based Payment Accounting. ASU 2018-07 is intended to reduce cost and complexity and to improve financial reporting for share-based payments to nonemployees. The amendments in this ASU are effective for public business entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that fiscal year. The adoption of ASU 2018-07 did not impact our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-04, Intangibles—Goodwill and Other (Topic 350) Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment. To simplify the subsequent measurement of goodwill, the FASB eliminated Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test. In computing the implied fair value of goodwill under Step 2, an entity had to perform procedures to determine the fair value at the impairment testing date of its assets and liabilities (including unrecognized assets and liabilities). Instead, under the amendments in this ASU, an entity should perform its annual, or interim, goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. A public business entity filer should adopt the amendments in this ASU for its annual or any interim goodwill impairment tests in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019. The Company has yet to assess the impact that the adoption of this ASU will have on Ebix's consolidated income statement and balance sheet.
 The Company seeks to execute accretive business acquisitions (which primarily targets businesses that are complementary to Ebix's existing products and services), in combination with organic growth initiatives, as part of its comprehensive business growth and expansion strategy. 
Effective January 1, 2019 Ebix entered into an agreement to acquire the assets of India based Essel Forex Limited, for approximately $7.9 million plus possible future contingent earn-out payments of up to $721 thousand based on earned revenues. Ebix funded the entire transaction in cash, using its internal cash reserves. Essel Forex has been one of the five largest Foreign exchange providers in India with a wide spectrum of related products including sales of all major Currencies, travelers’ checks, demand drafts, remittances, money transfers and prepaid cards primarily for the corporate clients. Besides being a foreign exchange business partner to leading banks such as ICICI, Axis, Indus Ind, Yes and HDFC Bank, Essel Forex has been associated with Western Union and MoneyGram for inward money transfers. The valuation and purchase price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction. The Company has determined that the fair value of the contingent earn-out consideration is $721 thousand as of March 31, 2019.
Effective December 1, 2018, Ebix entered into an agreement to acquire 74.84% controlling stake in India based Weizmann for $63.1 million (the $64.6 million reported on the cash flows from investing activities also includes a decrease in previously reported cash acquired of $1.5 million). Ebix also made a time bound public offer to acquire the remaining 25.16% publicly-held Weizmann Forex shares for approximately $21.1 million to public shareholders. The valuation and purchase price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.
Effective December 1, 2018, Ebix acquired the assets of India based Pearl, a provider of a comprehensive range of B2B and B2C travel services, under the brand name ‘Sastiticket’, ranging from domestic and international ticketing, incentives travel, leisure products, luxury holidays, and travel documentation for $3.4 million and has been integrated with Ebix Travels’ operations, 
Effective December 1, 2018, Ebix acquired India based Lawson, a B2B provider of travel services and international ticketing, for $2.7 million and has been integrated with Ebix Travels’ operations to bring in operational synergies and wider country wide footprint. The valuation and purchase price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.
Effective October 1, 2018, Ebix acquired the assets of India based Business Travels for $1.1 million and same has been integrated with Ebix Travels’ operations to expand the wholesale travel and consolidation business. The valuation and purchase price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.
Effective August 1, 2018, Ebix entered into an agreement to acquire India based Miles Software ("Miles"), a provider of on-demand software on wealth and asset management to banks, asset managers and wealth management firms, for approximately $18.3 million, plus possible future contingent earn-out payments of up to $8.3 million based on earned revenues over the subsequent twenty-four month period following the effective date of the acquisition. The Company has determined that the fair value of the contingent earn-out consideration is $5.6 million as of March 31, 2019.
Effective July 1, 2018, Ebix entered into an agreement to acquire India based Leisure Corp ("Leisure") for approximately $2.1 million, with the goal of creating a new travel division to focus on a niche segment of the travel market. The valuation and purchase price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.
Effective July 1, 2018, Ebix entered into an agreement to acquire India based Mercury Travels for approximately $13.2 million, with the goal of creating a new travel division to focus on a niche segment of the travel market. Mercury’s Forex business was integrated into EbixCash’s existing CDL Forex exchange business. The valuation and purchase price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.
Effective July 1, 2018, Ebix entered into an agreement to acquire India based Indus Software Technologies Pvt. Ltd. ("Indus"), a global provider of enterprise lending software solutions to financial institutions, captive auto finance and telecom companies, for approximately $22.9 million plus possible future contingent earn-out payments of up to $5.0 million based on earned revenues over the subsequent twenty-four month period following the effective date of the acquisition. The Company has determined that the fair value of the contingent earn-out consideration is $3.3 million as of March 31, 2019.
Effective April 1, 2018, Ebix entered into an agreement to acquire India based CentrumDirect Limited ("Centrum"), a leader in India’s foreign exchange and outward remittance markets for approximately $179.5 million. This acquisition was funded June 2018. Centrum was into Ebix’s Financial Exchange EbixCash offering in India and abroad, with key Centrum business executives becoming an integral part of the combined EbixCash senior leadership.
Effective April 1, 2018, Ebix entered into an agreement to acquire a 60% stake in India based Smartclass Educational Services Private Limited ("Smartclass"), a leading e-learning Company engaged in the business of education services, development of education products, and implementation of education solutions for K-12 Schools. Under the terms of the agreement Ebix paid $8.6 million in cash for its stake in Smartclass.
 Consideration paid by the Company for the businesses it purchases is allocated to the assets and liabilities acquired based upon their estimated fair values as of the date of the acquisition. The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed is recorded as goodwill. Recognized goodwill pertains to the value of the expected synergies to be derived from combining the operations of the businesses we acquire including the value of the acquired workforce. 
The aggregated unaudited pro forma financial information pertaining to all of the Company's acquisitions that have an impact on the three months ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018, which includes the acquisitions of Transcorp (acquired February 2018), Centrum (acquired April 2018), Smartclass (acquired April 2018), Indus (acquired July 2018), Mercury acquired July 2018), Leisure (acquired July 2018), Miles (acquired August 2018), Routier (acquired October 2018), Business Travels (acquired October 2018), Wahh Taxis (acquired October 2018), Pearl (acquired December 2018), Weizmann (acquired December 2018), Zillious (acquired January 2019), and Essel (acquired January 2019) and as presented in the table below is provided for informational purposes only and is not a projection of the Company's expected results of operations for any future period. No effect has been given in this pro forma information for future synergistic benefits that may still be realized as a result of combining these companies or costs that may yet be incurred in integrating their operations. The 2019 and 2018 pro forma financial information below assumes that all business acquisitions made during this period were made on January 1, 2018, whereas the Company's reported financial statements for the three months ended March 31, 2019 only include the operating results from these businesses since the effective date that they were acquired by Ebix.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, the Company's reported total operating revenues increased by $34.7 million or 32% to $142.9 million as compared to $108.2 million during the same period in 2018. Reported revenues were impacted by the continuing weakening in the foreign currencies in which we conduct operations (particularly in India, Australia, Brazil, and Great Britain) as compared to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar. Specifically, the adverse impact from fluctuations of the exchange rates for the foreign currencies in the countries in which we conduct operations, in the aggregate reduced reported revenues by $(5.0) million for the three months ended March 31, 2019.
 With respect to business acquisitions completed during the years 2019 and 2018 on a pro forma basis, as disclosed in the above pro forma financial information table, combined revenues decreased 7.2% for the three months ending March 31, 2019, respectively, versus the same periods in 2018. The 2019 and 2018 pro forma financial information assumes that all business acquisitions made during this period were made on January 1, 2018, whereas the Company's reported condensed consolidated financial statements for three months ended March 31, 2019 only includes the revenues from these businesses since the effective date that they were acquired or consolidated by Ebix, being February 2018 for Transcorp, April 2018 for Centrum, April 2018 for Smartclass, July 2018 for Indus, July 2018 for Mercury, July 2018 for Leisure, August 2018 for Miles, October 2018 for Routier, October 2018 for Business Travels, October 2018 for Wahh Taxis, December 2018 for Pearl, Weizmann, January 2019 for Zillious (acquired January 2019), and January 2019 for Essel. 
•2019 and 2018 pro forma revenue contains actual revenue of the acquired entities before acquisition date, as reported by the sellers, as well as actual revenue of the acquired entities after acquisition, whereas the reported growth in revenues of the acquired entities after acquisition date are only reflected for the period after their acquisition.
•Revenue billed to existing clients from the cross selling of acquired products has been assigned to the acquired section of our business.
On November 27, 2018, Ebix entered into the Eighth Amendment to the Regions Secured Credit Facility, dated August 5, 2014, among the Company, Regions Bank (“Regions”) and certain other lenders party thereto (as amended, the "Credit Agreement") to exercise $101.25 million of its aggregate $150 million accordion option, increasing the total Term Loan Commitment to $301.25 million from $250 million, with initial repayments starting December 31, 2018 due in the amount of $3.77 million for the first six quarters and increasing thereafter. The revolving credit facility increased from $400 million to $450 million. The Credit Agreement carries a leverage-based LIBOR related interest rate, which currently stands at approximately 5.0%. The expanded credit facility will continue to be used to fund the Company's future growth and share repurchase initiatives
On April 9, 2018 the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into the Seventh Amendment (the “Seventh Amendment”) to the Credit Agreement increasing the permitted indebtedness in the form of unsecured convertible notes from $250 million to $300 million.
On November 3, 2017 the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into the Fifth Amendment (the “Fifth Amendment”) to the Credit Agreement to exercise $50 million of its aggregate $100 million accordion option, increasing the total Term Loan Commitment to $175 million. $20 million of the increase was funded on November 3, 2017 and the remaining $30 
million was to be disbursed upon the satisfaction of certain closing requirements set forth in the Fifth Amendment. Both such disbursements are tied to permitted acquisitions as set forth in the Fifth Amendment.
On November 3, 2017, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into the Fourth Amendment and Waiver (the “Fourth Amendment”) to the Credit Agreement. The Fourth Amendment waived certain technical defaults related to the failure to give required notice with respect to i) the existence of a subsidiary having intellectual property with an aggregate value above a stipulated amount and ii) the additional investment in a joint venture entity resulting in that entity becoming a subsidiary of the Company for the purpose of the Credit Agreement. In addition to such waiver, the Fourth Amendment also loosened the leverage ratios the Company is required to satisfy in connection with permitted acquisitions and for compliance generally.
On October 19, 2017, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into the Third Amendment and Waiver (the “Third Amendment”) to the Credit Agreement. The Third Amendment waived certain technical defaults related to the Company’s making certain restricted payments in excess of those permitted under the Credit Agreement. In addition to such waiver, the Third Amendment also loosened the limitations on the restricted payment covenant under the Credit Agreement.
At March 31, 2019 the Company's consolidated balance sheet includes $5.5 million of remaining deferred financing costs in connection with this Credit Agreement, which are being amortized as a component of interest expense over the five-year term of the financing agreement. In regards to these deferred financing costs, $3.3 million pertains to the revolving line of credit component of the Credit Agreement, and $2.2 million pertains to the term loan component of the Credit Agreement, of which $575 thousand is netted against the current portion and $1.7 million is netted against the long-term portions of the term loan as reported on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
At March 31, 2019, the outstanding balance on the revolving line of credit under the Credit Agreement was $438.0 million and the facility carried an interest rate of 5.00%. During the three months ended March 31, 2019, $13.5 million of draws were made off of the revolving credit facility. The revolving line of credit balance is included in the long-term liabilities section of the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. During the three months ended March 31, 2019, the average and maximum outstanding balances of the revolving line of credit component of the credit facility were $434.4 million and $438.0 million, respectively.
At March 31, 2019, the outstanding balance on the term loan was $287.5 million of which $15.1 million is due within the next twelve months, with $3.77 million payments having been made during the three months ended March 31, 2019. This term loan also carried an interest rate of 5.00% . The current and long-term portions of the term loan are included in the respective current and long-term sections of the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, the amounts of which were $15.1 million and $272.4 million respectively at March 31, 2019. 
filed a Verified Third Amended and Supplemented Class Action and Derivative Complaint (the “Third Amended Complaint”), which, among other things, added certain directors of the Company as defendants. On January 5, 2018, Plaintiffs filed a motion for leave to join an additional plaintiff as co-lead plaintiff in this action (collectively, “Plaintiffs,” and together with all defendants, the “Parties”), which was granted on April 2, 2018.
Upon the effective date of the April SAR Agreement, Mr. Raina received 5,953,975 stock appreciation rights with respect to the Company’s common shares (the “SARs”). Upon an Acquisition Event, each of the SARs entitle Mr. Raina to receive a cash payment from the Company equal to the excess, if any, of the net proceeds per share received in connection with the Acquisition Event over the base price of $7.95 per share. Although the SARs were not granted under the 2010 Plan, the April SAR Agreement incorporates certain provisions of the 2010 Plan, including the provisions requiring equitable adjustment of the number of SARs and the base price in connection with certain corporate events (including stock splits). Under the terms of the April SAR Agreement, Mr. Raina is entitled to receive full payment with respect to the SARs if either (i) he is employed by the Company on the closing date of an Acquisition Event or (ii) has been involuntarily terminated by the Company without cause (as defined in the April SAR Agreement) within the 180-day period immediately preceding an Acquisition Event. All of the SARs are forfeited if Mr. Raina’s employment is terminated for any other reason prior to the closing date of an Acquisition Event.
On July 17, 2018, following briefing and argument, the Court issued an Order granting in part and denying in part defendants’ motions for summary judgment on all remaining counts of the Fourth Amended Complaint. The Court granted summary judgment as to all defendants on Counts I, IV, V, VI, VII, and X and denied summary judgment as to Counts II and III. The Court granted summary judgment as to certain defendants on Count IX, and granted in part and denied in part Count IX with respect to the Firm Clients. On July 24, 2018, Plaintiffs filed a motion for leave to file a second supplement to the Fourth Amended Complaint related to certain disclosures issued in connection with the Company’s 2018 annual meeting, which the Court denied at a pretrial conference held on August 15, 2018. On August 9, 2018, following briefing and argument, the Court issued a bench ruling granting in part and denying in part defendants’ motion to dismiss the Supplement. A three-day trial on all remaining claims was held on August 20, 21, and 23, 2018.
The foregoing description does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Amended SAR Agreement.
The Litigation Settlement includes, among other things, the adoption and entry into the Amended SAR Agreement, as well as certain governance measures set forth in the Settlement Agreement, in each case, effective upon the later of (i) expiration of the period for taking an appeal of the Order, or (ii) final resolution of any such appeal (excluding any appeal from the Order that relates solely to the issue of plaintiffs’ counsels’ application for an award of attorneys' fees and expenses). 
 As of March 31, 2019 a liability of $9.3 million for uncertain tax positions is included in other long-term liabilities of the Company's Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. During the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, there was 
Effective April 1, 2018 Ebix entered into an agreement to acquire a 60% stake in India based Smartclass, a leading e-learning Company engaged in the business of education services, development of education products, and implementation of education solutions for K-12 Schools. Under the terms of the agreement, Ebix paid $8.6 million in cash for its stake in Smartclass.
Effective January 2, 2018 Paul Merchants acquired a 10% equity interest in Ebix’s combined international remittance business in India (comprised of YouFirst, Wall Street , Paul Merchants, and Transcorp) for cash consideration of $5.0 million. The consolidation of these acquisitions into Ebix's Financial Exchange operations will bring synergies and reduce certain redundancies to the combined operation. As part of this agreement Ebix retains an irrevocable option to reacquire 10% of the equity interest after one year at a predetermined price which is included in other current liabilities of the Company's Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. On January 2, 2019 Ebix, exercised an irrevocable option to reacquire the 10% equity interest previously owned by Paul Merchants in the international remittance business in India for cash consideration of $4.9 million.
Accordingly, Ebix acquired an 80% stake in ItzCash for $120 million including upfront cash of $76.3 million plus possible future contingent earn-out payments of up to $44.0 million based on earned revenues over the subsequent thirty-six month period following the effective date of the acquisition. The Company has determined that the fair value of the contingent earn-out consideration is zero as of March 31, 2019.
Effective February 7, 2016 Ebix and Vayam Technologies Ltd ("Vayam") formed a joint venture named Ebix Vayam Limited JV. This joint venture was established to carry out IT projects in the government sector of the country of India and particularly in regards to the implementation of e-governance projects in the areas of education and healthcare. Ebix has a 51% equity interest in the joint venture, and Vayam has a 49% equity interest in the joint venture. Ebix is fully consolidating the operations of the Ebix Vayam Limited JV into the Company's financial statements and separately reporting the Vayam minority, non-controlling, interest in the joint venture's net income and equity. 
Effective September 1, 2015 Ebix and IHC formed the joint venture EbixHealth JV. This joint venture was established to promote and market an administrative data exchange for health and pet insurance lines of business nationally. Ebix paid $6.0 million and contributed a license to use certain CurePet software and systems valued by the EbixHealth JV at $2.0 million, for its initial 40% membership interest in the EbixHealth JV. IHC contributed all of its shares in its existing third party administrator operations (IHC Health Solutions, Inc.), valued by the EbixHealth JV at $12.0 million for its 60% membership interest in the EbixHealth JV, and received a special distribution of $6.0 million. Effective July 1, 2016 Ebix and IHC jointly executed a Call Notice agreement, whereby Ebix purchased additional common units in the EbixHealth JV from IHC constituting eleven percent (11%) of the EbixHealth JV for $2.0 million cash which resulted in Ebix holding an aggregate fifty-one percent (51%) of the EbixHealth JV. Commensurate with additional equity stake in the joint venture and a new contemporaneous valuation of the business the Company realized a $1.2 million gain on its previously carried 40% equity interest in the EbixHealth JV. This recognized gain was reflected as a component of other non-operating income in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income. Beginning July 1, 2016 Ebix is fully consolidating the operations of the EbixHealth JV into the Company's financial statements and separately reporting the IHC minority, non-controlling, 49% interest in the joint venture's net income and equity, and thereby reflecting Ebix's net resulting 51% interest in the EbixHealth JV profits or losses. IHC is also a customer of the EbixHealth JV, and during the three months ending March 31, 2019 and 2018 the EbixHealth JV recognized $767 thousand and $2.3 million, respectively, of revenue from IHC, and as of March 31, 2019 the EbixHealth JV had $442 thousand of accounts receivable from IHC. Furthermore, as a related party, IHC also has been and continues to be a customer of Ebix, and during the three months ending March 31, 2019 and 2018 the Company recognized $19 thousand and zero revenue from IHC respectively, and as of March 31, 2019 IHC had $38 thousand of accounts receivable with Ebix.
In February 2016 the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842). This new accounting guidance is intended to improve financial reporting about leasing transactions. The ASU affects all companies and other organizations that lease assets such as real estate, airplanes, and manufacturing equipment. The ASU requires organizations that lease assets referred to as “Lessees” to recognize on the balance sheet the assets and liabilities for the rights and obligations created by those leases. An organization is to provide disclosures designed to enable users of financial statements to understand the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. These disclosures include qualitative and quantitative requirements concerning additional information about the amounts recorded in the financial statements. Under the new guidance, a lessee is required to recognize assets and liabilities for leases with lease terms of more than twelve months. Consistent with current GAAP, the recognition, measurement, and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee primarily will depend on its classification as a finance or operating lease. However, unlike former GAAP which requires only financing leases to be recognized on the balance sheet the new ASU requires both types of leases (i.e., operating and financing) to be recognized on the balance sheet. The FASB lessee accounting model will continue to account for both types of leases. The financing lease will be accounted for in substantially the same manner as capital leases were accounted for under the previous guidance. For operating leases there will have to be the recognition of a lease liability and a lease asset for all such leases greater than one year in term.
The Company leases office space under non-cancelable operating leases with expiration dates ranging through 2029, with various renewal options. Finance leases range from three to five years and are primarily for office equipment. There were multiple assets under various individual finance leases at March 31, 2019 and 2018. Rental expense for office and airport facilities and certain equipment subject to operating leases for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 was $9.2 million and $1.9 million, respectively.
Credit Risk
Major Customer
As previously disclosed in Note 8, effective February 7, 2016 Ebix and Vayam formed a joint venture named Ebix Vayam Limited JV. This joint venture was established to carry out IT projects in the government sector of the country of India and particularly in regards to the implementation of e-governance projects in the areas of education and healthcare. Ebix has a 51% equity interest in the joint venture, and Vayam has a 49% equity interest in the joint venture. Ebix is fully consolidating the operations of the Ebix Vayam Limited JV into the Company's financial statements and separately reporting the Vayam minority, non-controlling, interest in the joint venture's net income and equity. Vayam is also a customer of the Ebix Vayam Limited JV, and during the three months ending March 31, 2019 and 2018 the Ebix Vayam Limited JV recognized $87 thousand and $6.2 million of revenue from Vayam, respectively, and as of March 31, 2019 the Ebix Vayam Limited JV had $34.1 million of accounts receivable with Vayam.
Derivative Legal Settlement
On April 5, 2019, the Delaware Court of Chancery entered an Order and Final Judgment (the “Order”) approving the Stipulation and Agreement of Settlement (the “Settlement”), dated January 23, 2019, among Ebix, Inc. (the “Company”), the other 
defendants and the plaintiffs in the litigation captionedIn re Ebix, Inc. Stockholder Litigation, Consol. C.A. No. 8526-VCS (the “Litigation”).
filed a Verified Second Amended and Supplemented Class Action and Derivative Complaint (the “Second Amended Complaint”). On February 10, 2015, defendants filed a Motion to Dismiss the Second Amended Complaint, which was granted in part and denied in part in a Memorandum Opinion and Order issued on January 15, 2016. On October 26, 2016, Plaintiffs filed a Verified Third Amended and Supplemented Class Action and Derivative Complaint (the “Third Amended Complaint”), which, among other things, added certain directors of the Company as defendants. On January 5, 2018, Plaintiffs filed a motion for leave to join an additional plaintiff as co-lead plaintiff in this action (collectively, “Plaintiffs,” and together with all defendants, the “Parties”), which was granted on April 2, 2018.
Upon the effective date of the April SAR Agreement, Mr. Raina received 5,953,975 stock appreciation rights with respect to the Company’s common shares (the “SARs”). Upon an Acquisition Event, each of the SARs entitle Mr. Raina to receive a cash payment from the Company equal to the excess, if any, of the net proceeds per share received in connection with the Acquisition Event over the base price of $7.95 per share. Although the SARs were not granted under the 2010 Plan, the April SAR Agreement incorporates certain provisions of the 2010 Plan, including the provisions requiring equitable adjustment of the number of SARs and the base price in connection with certain corporate events (including stock splits). Under the terms of the April SAR Agreement, Mr. Raina is entitled to receive full payment with respect to the SARs if either (i) he is employed by the Company on the closing date of an Acquisition Event or (ii) has been involuntarily terminated by the Company without cause (as defined in the April SAR Agreement) within the 180-day period immediately preceding an Acquisition Event. All of the SARs are forfeited if Mr. Raina’s employment is terminated for any other reason prior to the closing date of an Acquisition Event.
but generally will follow the terms of the restricted shares or restricted stock units granted to other executives of the Company at or about the time of such Share Grant, but no Share Grant will vest more rapidly than one-third of such Share Grant prior to the first anniversary of the grant date, with the remainder vesting in eight equal quarterly installments following the first anniversary of the grant date. The April SAR Agreement also provides for the Company to make tax gross-up payments for excise taxes that would be imposed on Mr. Raina in respect of any payments (other than any payments with respect to any Share Grants) made in connection with a change in control of the Company under Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code.
On July 17, 2018, following briefing and argument, the Court issued an Order granting in part and denying in part defendants’ motions for summary judgment on all remaining counts of the Fourth Amended Complaint. The Court granted summary judgment as to all defendants on Counts I, IV, V, VI, VII, and X and denied summary judgment as to Counts II and III. The Court granted summary judgment as to certain defendants on Count IX, and granted in part and denied in part Count IX with respect to the Firm Clients. On July 24, 2018, Plaintiffs filed a motion for leave to file a second supplement to the Fourth Amended Complaint related to certain disclosures issued in connection with the Company’s 2018 annual meeting, which the Court denied at a pretrial conference held on August 15, 2018. On August 9, 2018, following briefing and argument, the Court issued a bench ruling granting in part and denying in part defendants’ motion to dismiss the Supplement. A three-day trial on all remaining claims was held on August 20, 21, and 23, 2018.
The foregoing description does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Amended SAR Agreement.
The Litigation Settlement includes, among other things, the adoption and entry into the Amended SAR Agreement, as well as certain governance measures set forth in the Settlement Agreement, in each case, effective upon the later of (i) expiration of the period for taking an appeal of the Order, or (ii) final resolution of any such appeal (excluding any appeal from the Order that relates solely to the issue of plaintiffs’ counsels’ application for an award of attorneys' fees and expenses). 
