fls.txt



item1.txt
The consolidated interim financial statements include the accounts of Teradyne and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
The accompanying financial information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained in Teradyne’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on March 1, 2019, for the year ended December 31, 2018.
Under this method of adoption, the comparative information in the consolidated financial statements has not been revised and continues to be reported under the previously applicable lease accounting guidance (ASC 840).
Adoption of ASC 842 resulted in recording ROU assets and lease liabilities of approximately $50.1 million and $54.3 million, respectively.
Operating lease liabilities were calculated using the discount rate on January 1, 2019.
As of March 31, 2019, Teradyne does not have material leases that have not yet commenced.
Teradyne determines if the lease is operating or finance at the lease commencement date based upon the terms of the lease and the nature of the asset.
The lease term used to calculate the lease liability includes options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that the option will be exercised.
Variable payments that do not depend on an index are not included in the lease liability and are recognized as they are incurred.
On January 30, 2019, Teradyne acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Lemsys SA (“Lemsys”) for a total purchase price of approximately $9.1 million.
As of the acquisition date, Teradyne’s preliminary purchase price allocation was goodwill of $1.2 million, which is not deductible for tax purposes, acquired intangible assets of $5.5 million with an average estimated useful life of 4.9 years, and $2.4 million of net tangible assets.
The acquisition was not material to Teradyne’s condensed consolidated financial statements.
MiR is the leading maker of collaborative autonomous mobile robots for industrial applications.
The allocation of the total purchase price to MiR’s net tangible liabilities and identifiable intangible assets was based on their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date.
As of the acquisition date, Teradyne’s purchase price allocation was goodwill of $14.4 million which is deductible for tax purposes, acquired intangible assets of $12.3 million with an average estimated useful life of 7.7 years, and $1.0 million of net tangible assets.
The acquisition was not material to Teradyne’s condensed consolidated financial statements.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and April 1, 2018, Teradyne also recognized $1.7 million and $4.3 million, respectively, of revenues from leases of Teradyne systems, which are accounted for outside of ASC 606.
Each of these represents a distinct performance obligation.
Teradyne accounts for these transactions as sales of receivables and presents cash proceeds as a cash provided by operating activities in the consolidated statements of cash flows.


item2.txt
Statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q which are not historical facts, so called “forward-looking statements,” are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
MiR is the leading maker of collaborative autonomous mobile robots for industrial applications.
On January 30, 2019, we acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Lemsys SA (“Lemsys”) for a total purchase price of approximately $9.1 million.
Lemsys is included in our Semiconductor Test segment.
Under ASC 842, a contract is or contains a lease when we have the right to control the use of an identified asset.
As we are typically unable to determine the implicit rate, we use an incremental borrowing rate based on the lease term and economic environment at commencement date.
Variable payments that do not depend on an index are not included in the lease liability and are recognized as they are incurred.
We elected the practical expedient to account for the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component.


item3.txt
In addition to market risks described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have an equity price risk related to the fair value of our convertible senior unsecured notes issued in December 2016.


item4.txt



part2.txt
In January 2018, our Board of Directors cancelled the December 2016 stock repurchase program and authorized a new stock repurchase program for up to $1.5 billion of common stock.


