fls.txt



item1.txt
The consolidated interim financial statements include the accounts of Teradyne and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
Transaction price is allocated to each individual performance obligation based on the standalone selling price of that performance obligation.
Teradyne uses standalone transactions when available to value each performance obligation.
In order to determine the appropriate timing for revenue recognition, Teradyne first determines if the transaction meets any of three criteria for over time recognition.
If the transaction meets the criteria for over time recognition, Teradyne recognizes revenue as the good or service is delivered.
For transactions that do not meet the criteria for over time recognition, Teradyne will recognize revenue at a point in time based on an assessment of the five criteria for transfer of control.
Revenue recognized in accordance with ASC 606 was $564.5 million and $1,571.0 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, Teradyne also recognized $2.3 million and $10.2 million, respectively, in revenue on leases of Teradyne systems, which are accounted for outside of ASC 606.
The extended warranty is purchased in the same transaction as the system or robot purchase and is classified as a separate performance obligation, which meets the criteria for over time recognition.
Training and applications support included in system orders are valued based on their standalone selling price and all training and applications support is recognized over time as the customer receives and consumes the benefit associated with each.
Teradyne provides support services for certain systems and robots outside of warranty.
Teradyne has estimated the standalone selling price for these services based on adjusted market assessments.
Teradyne does not allow customer returns or provide refunds to customers for any products or services.
Teradyne does not have material contract assets on the balance sheet.
The amount of revenue recognized during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 that was previously included within the deferred revenue and customer advances was $24.5 million and $70.9 million, respectively, and primarily relates to extended warranties, training, application support, and PCS.
Teradyne does not have material remaining performance obligations from contracts with an original expected duration of greater than one year.
The following tables summarize the impact of ASC 606 to Teradyne’s consolidated financial statements.
Differences are the result of timing differences between the recognition of revenue under ASC 606 and ASC 605 primarily with respect to software transactions deferred due to lack of vendor specific objective evidence of price under ASC 605 and Teradyne’s assessment of acceptance under ASC 606.


item2.txt
Universal Robots, MiR and Energid are included in our Industrial Automation segment.
In accordance with ASC 606, we recognize revenues, when or as control is transferred to a customer.
We determine performance obligations by assessing whether the products or services are distinct from the other elements of the contract.
We consider the amount stated on the face of the purchase order to be the transaction price.
We use input variables such as hours or months utilized or costs incurred to determine the amount of revenue to recognize in a given period.
For transactions that do not meet the criteria for over time recognition, we will recognize revenue at a point in time based on an assessment of the five criteria for transfer of control.
We have concluded that revenue should be recognized when shipped or delivered based on contractual terms.
Typically, acceptance of our products and services is a formality as we deliver similar systems, instruments, and robots to standard specifications.
The non-service components of net benefit costs such as interest cost, expected return on assets, amortization of prior service cost, and actuarial gains or losses, are required to be reported separately outside of income or loss from operations.


item3.txt
In addition to market risks described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have an equity price risk related to the fair value of our convertible senior unsecured notes issued in December 2016.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The implementation of tariffs and export controls on our products may have a material impact on our business.


