The consolidated interim financial statements include the accounts of Teradyne and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
In accordance with ASC 606, Teradyne recognizes revenues, when or as control is transferred to a customer.
Transaction price is allocated to each individual performance obligation based on the standalone selling price of that performance obligation.
Teradyne uses standalone transactions when available to value each performance obligation.
In order to determine the appropriate timing for revenue recognition, Teradyne first determines if the transaction meets any of three criteria for over time recognition.
For transactions that do not meet the criteria for over time recognition, Teradyne will recognize revenue at a point in time based on an assessment of the five criteria for transfer of control.
For the three and six months ended July 1, 2018, Teradyne also recognized $3.6 million and $7.9 million, respectively, in revenue on leases of Teradyne systems, which are accounted for outside of ASC 606.
The extended warranty is purchased in the same transaction as the system or robot purchase and is classified as a separate performance obligation, which meets the criteria for over time recognition.
Training and applications support included in system orders are valued based on their standalone selling price and all training and applications support is recognized over time as the customer receives and consumes the benefit associated with each.
Teradyne provides support services for certain systems and robots outside of warranty.
Standalone selling price for PCS is not directly observable as Teradyne does not sell these services separately.
Teradyne has estimated the standalone selling price for these services based on adjusted market assessments.In accordance with ASC 606, we recognize revenues, when or as control is transferred to a customer.
We periodically enter into contracts with its customers in which a customer may purchase a combination of goods and or services, such as products with extended warranty obligations.
We determine performance obligations by assessing whether the products or services are distinct from the other elements of the contract.
In order to determine the appropriate timing for revenue recognition, we first determine if the transaction meets any of three criteria for over time recognition.
We use input variables such as hours or months utilized or costs incurred to determine the amount of revenue to recognize in a given period.
We have concluded that revenue should be recognized when shipped or delivered based on contractual terms.