fls.txt



item1.txt
The consolidated interim financial statements include the accounts of Teradyne and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
Transaction price is allocated to each individual performance obligation based on the standalone selling price of that performance obligation.
Teradyne uses standalone transactions when available to value each performance obligation.
In order to determine the appropriate timing for revenue recognition, Teradyne first determines if the transaction meets any of three criteria for over time recognition.
If the transaction meets the criteria for over time recognition, Teradyne recognizes revenue as the good or service is delivered.
Teradyne uses input variables such as hours or months utilized or costs incurred to determine the amount of revenue to recognize in a given period.
For transactions which do not meet the criteria for over time recognition, Teradyne will recognize revenue at a point in time based on an assessment of the five criteria for transfer of control.
Teradyne also recognized $4.3 million in revenue on leases of Teradyne systems which are accounted for outside of ASC 606.
Customers have the option to purchase an extended warranty, which extends the warranty period for systems and robots beyond the one year standard warranty.
The extended warranty is purchased in the same transaction as the system or robot purchase and is classified as a separate performance obligation which meets the criteria for over time recognition.
Training and applications support included in system orders are valued based on their standalone selling price and all training and applications support is recognized over time as the customer receives and consumes the benefit associated with each.
Teradyne provides support services for certain systems and robots outside of warranty.
Standalone selling price for PCS is not directly observable as Teradyne does not sell these services separately.
Teradyne has estimated the standalone selling price for these services based on adjusted market assessments.
Teradyne does not allow customer returns or provide refunds to customers for any products or services.
Teradyne does not have material contract assets on the balance sheet.
The amount of revenue recognized during the quarter ended April 1, 2018 that was included within the deferred revenue and customer advances balance at January 1, 2018 was $21.8 million and primarily relates to extended warranties, training, application support, and PCS.
Teradyne does not have material remaining performance obligations from contracts with an original expected duration of greater than one year.
Teradyne makes no significant judgements in determining the amount or timing of revenue recognition.


item2.txt
In accordance with ASC 606, we recognize revenues, when or as control is transferred to a customer.
We periodically enter into contracts with its customers in which a customer may purchase a combination of goods and or services, such as products with extended warranty obligations.
We determine performance obligations by assessing whether the products or services are distinct from the other elements of the contract.
In order to be distinct the product or service must perform either on its own or with readily available resources and must be separate within the context of the contract.
In order to determine the appropriate timing for revenue recognition, we first determine if the transaction meets any of three criteria for over time recognition.
If the transaction meets the criteria for over time recognition, we recognize revenue as the good or service is delivered.
We use input variables such as hours or months utilized or costs incurred to determine the amount of revenue to recognize in a given period.
Following the adoption of this guidance, we continue to record the service cost component in the same line item as other employee compensation costs and the non-service components of net benefit costs such as interest cost, expected return on assets, amortization of prior service cost, and actuarial gains or losses are reported within other (income) expense, net.


item3.txt
In addition to market risks described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have an equity price risk related to the fair value of our convertible senior unsecured notes issued in December 2016.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Our business may suffer if we are impacted by the implementation of tariffs on our products.


