The accompanying notes, together with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Teradyne’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, are an integral part of the condensed consolidated financial statements.
The consolidated interim financial statements include the accounts of Teradyne and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
10-K, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on March 1, 2019, for the year ended December 31, 2018. right-of-use (“ROU”) asset and a lease liability on the balance sheet for operating leases with terms longer than twelve months.
Under this method of adoption, the comparative information in the consolidated financial statements has not been revised and continues to be reported under the previously applicable lease accounting guidance (ASC 840).
resulted in recording ROU assets and lease liabilities of approximately $50.1 Under ASC 842, a contract is or contains a lease when Teradyne has the right to control the use of an identified asset.
Teradyne determines if an arrangement is a lease at inception of the contract, which is the date on which the terms of the contract are agreed to and the agreement creates enforceable rights and obligations.
As of June 30, 2019, Teradyne does not have material leases that have not yet commenced.
Teradyne determines if the lease is operating or finance at the lease commencement date based upon the terms of the lease and the nature of the asset.
The lease term used to calculate the lease liability includes options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that the option will be exercised.
Variable payments that do not depend on an index are not included in the lease liability and are recognized as they are incurred.
On January 30, 2019, Teradyne acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Lemsys SA (“Lemsys”) for a total purchase price of approximately $9.1 million.
Teradyne’s final allocation of the purchase price was goodwill of $1.4 million, which is not deductible for tax purposes, acquired intangible assets of $4.6 million with an average estimated useful life of 5.2 years, and $3.1 million of net tangible assets.10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
MiR is the leading maker of collaborative autonomous mobile robots for industrial applications.
MiR and Energid are included in our Industrial Automation segment.
Lemsys is included in our Semiconductor Test segment.
As of June 30, 2019, we do not have material leases that have not yet commenced.
We determine if the lease is operating or finance at the lease commencement date based upon the terms of the lease and the nature of the asset.We are subject to U.S. laws and regulations that limit and restrict the export of some of our products and services and may restrict our transactions with certain customers, business partners and other persons.