10-K, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on March 1, 2019, for the year ended December 31, 2018. right-of-use (“ROU”) asset and a lease liability on the balance sheet for operating leases with terms longer than twelve months.
Under this method of adoption, the comparative information in the consolidated financial statements has not been revised and continues to be reported under the previously applicable lease accounting guidance (ASC 840).
Adoption of ASC 842 resulted in recording ROU assets and lease liabilities of approximately $50.1 million and $54.3 million, respectively.
Operating lease liabilities were calculated using the discount rate on January 1, 2019.
Teradyne determines if an arrangement is a lease at inception of the contract, which is the date on which the terms of the contract are agreed to and the agreement creates enforceable rights and obligations.
As of September 29, 2019, Teradyne does not have material leases that have not yet commenced.
Teradyne determines if the lease is operating or finance at the lease commencement date based upon the terms of the lease and the nature of the asset.
The lease term used to calculate the lease liability includes options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that the option will be exercised.
Variable payments that do not depend on an index are not included in the lease liability and are recognized as they are incurred.
On January 30, 2019, Teradyne acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Lemsys SA (“Lemsys”) for a total purchase price of approximately $9.1 million.
Teradyne’s final allocation of the purchase price was goodwill of $1.4 million, which is not deductible for tax purposes, acquired intangible assets of $4.6 million with an average estimated useful life of 5.2 years, and $3.1 million of net tangible assets.
The acquisition was not material to Teradyne’s condensed consolidated financial statements.MiR is the leading maker of collaborative autonomous mobile robots for industrial applications.
MiR and Energid are included in our Industrial Automation segment.
Lemsys is included in our Semiconductor Test segment.
On June 3, 2019, we invested $15 million in RealWear, Inc. (“RealWear”).
RealWear, a private company, develops and sells advanced wearable technology including industrial, hands-free, head-mounted augmented reality devices that make the workplace safer and more productive.
On October 18, 2019, we entered into an agreement to acquire 100% of the equity of AutoGuide, LLC (“AutoGuide”), a maker of high-payload autonomous mobile robots (AMRs), an emerging and fast growing segment of the global forklift market for $58 million of cash and up to $107 million in earn-outs potentially through 2022.We are subject to U.S. laws and regulations that limit and restrict the export of some of our products and services and may restrict our transactions with certain customers, business partners and other persons.