ClearOne is a global Company that designs, develops and sells conferencing, collaboration, and AV networking solutions for voice and visual communications. The performance and simplicity of our advanced, comprehensive solutions offer a high level of functionality, reliability and scalability. 
We derive a major portion of our revenue from audio conferencing products and microphones by promoting our products in the professional audio-visual channel. We have extended our total addressable market from the installed audio conferencing market to adjacent complementary markets – microphones, video collaboration and AV networking. We have achieved this through strategic technological acquisitions as well as by internal product development. 
We also introduced COLLABORATE® Space to our growing family of collaboration solutions. It’s a suite that unifies messaging, calls and meetings and will energize workflows and increase productivity for everyone involved in the enterprise. Designed as a persistent, user-friendly collaboration suite, COLLABORATE Space contains many powerful UCC capabilities, as well as the seamless ability to make calls outside the network. With COLLABORATE Space, users can work together one-on-one, or in groups of hundreds, with integrated file sharing, searchable archives, and user presence information. They can connect with colleagues and contacts, via audio and video, with the most intuitive collaboration tools. Users can meet immediately or schedule a meeting and access a full suite of collaboration features, including file sharing, whiteboarding, annotation, chat, and meeting minutes. 
Overall revenue declined in the first quarter of 2019 when compared to the first quarter of 2018, with declines seen in all product categories except video. We believe the on-going infringement of ClearOne’s patents is the major cause of our revenue decline in the audio conferencing and microphones categories.  
Our gross profit margin decreased to 43% during the first quarter of 2019 from 56% for the first quarter of 2018. Gross profit margin decreased primarily due to reduced overhead absorption into inventory as we continue to reduce our net spend on inventory. 
Net loss increased from $1.8 million in the first quarter of 2018 to $2.3 million in the first quarter of 2019. The increase in net loss in 2019 was primarily due to reduced gross profit and reduced tax benefit partially offset by reduction in operating expenses.  
Industry conditions 
We operate in a very dynamic and highly competitive industry which is dominated on the one hand by a few players with respect to certain products like traditional video conferencing appliances while on the other influenced heavily by a fragmented reseller market consisting of numerous regional and local players. The industry is also characterized by venture capitalist funded start-ups and private companies willing to fund cumulative cash losses in order to gain market share and achieve certain non-financial goals. 
Economic conditions, challenges and risks 
The audio-visual products market is characterized by intense competition and rapidly evolving technology. Our competitors vary within each product category. Our installed professional audio conferencing products, which is our flagship product category, continue to be ahead of the competition despite the reduction in revenues. Our strength in this space is largely due to our fully integrated suite of products consisting of DSP mixers, wide range of professional microphone products and video collaboration products. Despite our strong leadership position in the installed professional audio conferencing market, we face challenges to revenue growth due to the limited size of the market and pricing pressures from new competitors attracted to the commercial market due to higher margins. 
Revenue from our video products are critical to our long-term growth. We face intense competition in this market from well-established market leaders as well as emerging players rich with marketing funds. We expect our strategy of combining Spontania, our cloud-based video conferencing product, Collaborate, our appliance-based media collaboration product, our high-quality professional cameras, and our high-end audio conferencing technology will generate high growth in the near future. We believe we are also well positioned to capitalize on the continuing migration away from the traditional hardware-based video conferencing systems to software-based video conferencing applications. 
We derive a major portion of our revenue (approximately 47% for the year ended December 31, 2018) from international operations and expect this trend to continue in the future. Most of our revenue from outside the U.S. is billed in U.S. dollars and is not exposed to any significant currency risk. However, we are exposed to foreign exchange risk if the U.S. dollar is strong against other currencies as it will make U.S. Dollar denominated prices of our products less competitive. 
Results of Operations for the first quarter of 2019 
Revenue 
Our revenue decreased to $6.3 million in 2019 compared to $7.3 million in 2018. The highest decline was seen in audio conferencing category with 11% decline followed by microphones with 9% decline. Revenue from video products grew by 13% on the back of growth in sales of videoconferencing appliances, cameras and cloud-based videoconferencing services. The decline in audio conferencing category was due to decline in all subcategories including professional installed audio conferencing, personal conferencing and tabletop conferencing. The decline in microphones category was due to decline in beamforming microphones. The on-going infringement of ClearOne’s patents is the major cause of our revenue decline in audio conferencing and microphones categories.  
The share of audio conferencing products in our product mix declined marginally from 50% in 2018-Q1 to 43% in 2019-Q1. The share of microphones slightly improved from 32% to 33%. Share of video products in the revenue mix increased from 18% to 24%. 
During 2019-Q1 revenue declined across all major markets except Middle East, India and Central Europe. The decline was more pronounced in the Canada, Australia, Japan and Northern Europe. Asia Pacific including Middle East decreased by 9%, Europe and Africa declined by 14% and Americas declined by 13%. 
Costs of Goods Sold and Gross Profit 
Operating Expenses 
Other income (expense), net 
Other income (expense), net, includes interest income, interest expense, and foreign currency changes. 
Other income marginally increased in 2019-Q1 compared to higher interest income.  
During 2019-Q1, we did not recognize any benefit from the losses incurred due to setting up of full valuation allowance. During 2018-Q1 we accrued income taxes at the forecasted effective tax benefit rate of 27.0% 
As of March 31, 2019, our cash and cash equivalents were approximately $4.3 million compared to $11.2 million as of December 31, 2018. Our working capital was $22.9 million and $28.3 million as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively. 
Net cash used in operating activities was approximately $1.3 million in 2019-Q1, an increase of cash used of approximately $1.0 million from $0.3 million of cash used in operating activities in 2018-Q1. The increase was primarily due to an increase in cash outflows due to change in operating assets and liabilities of $1.2 million and an increase in net loss by $0.5 million, partially offset by increase in non-cash charges of $0.7 million. 
Net cash used by investing activities was $5.6 million for 2019-Q1 compared to net cash flows provided by investing activities of $1.0 million during the 2018-Q1, an increase in cash used of $6.6 million. The increase was primarily due to an increase in net purchases of marketable securities of approximately $6.8 million. 
We are currently pursuing all available legal remedies to defend our strategic patents from infringement. We have already spent about $9.7 million from 2016 through March 31, 2019 towards this litigation and may be required to spend more to continue our legal defense. We have been actively engaged in preserving cash by suspending our dividend program, allowing the share repurchase program to expire and implementing company-wide cost reduction measures. In addition, we expect to generate additional cash as our inventory levels are brought down to historical levels. We also believe that the measures taken by us will yield higher revenues in the future. We believe all of these and effective management of working capital will provide the liquidity needed to meet our short-term and long-term operating requirements and finance our growth plans. We also believe that our strong portfolio of intellectual property and our solid brand equity in the market will enable us to raise additional capital if and when needed to meet our short and long-term financing needs. In addition to capital expenditures, we may use cash in the near future for selective infusions of technology, sales and marketing, infrastructure, and other investments to fuel our growth. 
At March 31, 2019, we had inventory totaling $20.8 million, of which non-current inventory accounted for $8.5 million. This compares to total inventories of $22.2 million and non-current inventory of $9.0 million as of December 31, 2018. 
