1. Business Description, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies 
ClearOne, Inc., together with its subsidiaries (collectively, “ClearOne” or the “Company”), is a global market leader enabling conferencing, collaboration, and AV streaming solutions for voice and visual communications. The performance and simplicity of our advanced, comprehensive solutions offer unprecedented levels of functionality, reliability and scalability. 
The fiscal year for ClearOne is the twelve months ending on December 31. The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of ClearOne and its subsidiaries. All significant inter-company accounts and transactions have been eliminated. 
The significant accounting policies were described in Note 1 to the audited consolidated financial statements included in the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. There have been no changes to these policies during the six months ended June 30, 2019 that are of significance or potential significance to the Company except for the change in accounting for leases as described below. 
ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and operating lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease. Operating lease ROU assets and operating lease liabilities are recognized at the commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term. As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments. We use the implicit rate when readily determinable. The operating lease ROU asset also includes any lease payments made and excludes lease incentives. Our lease terms may include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option. Lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
Under the available practical expedient, we account for the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component. 
3. Earnings (Loss) Per Share 
Basic earnings (loss) per common share is the amount of net earnings (loss) for the period available to each weighted-average share of common stock outstanding during the reporting period. Diluted earnings (loss) per common share is the amount of earnings (loss) for the period available to each weighted-average share of common stock outstanding during the reporting period and to each share of potential common stock outstanding during the period, unless inclusion of potential common stock would have an anti-dilutive effect. 
Rent expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease taking into account future rent escalation and holiday periods. 
We occupy a 5,000 square-foot facility in Gainesville, Florida under the terms of an operating lease that expires in February 2021 with the possibility of renewing the lease for 10 more years. The Gainesville facility is used primarily to support our research and development activities. 
We currently occupy a 21,443 square-foot facility in Salt Lake City, Utah under the terms of an operating lease expiring in March 2024, with an option to extend for additional five years. The facility supports our principal administrative, sales, marketing, customer support, and research and product development activities. 
We occupy a 10,700 square-foot warehouse in Shenzhen, China under the terms of an operating lease expiring in September 2019, which serves as manufacturing support center for Asia. 
We occupy a 7,070 square-foot facility in Austin, Texas - under the terms of an operating lease expiring in October 2019. This facility supports our sales, marketing, customer support, and research and development activities. 
We occupy a 3,068 square-foot facility in Zaragoza, Spain under the terms of an operating lease expiring in March 2020. This office supports our research and development and customer support activities 
We occupy a 6,175 square-foot facility in Chennai, India - under the terms of an operating lease expiring in August 2021. This facility supports our administrative, marketing, customer support, and research and product development activities. 
We occupy a 40,000 square-foot warehouse in Salt Lake City, Utah under the terms of an operating lease expiring in April 2025, which serves as our primary inventory fulfillment and repair center.  
The Company’s share-based incentive plans offering stock options are offered under the Company’s 2007 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2007 Plan”), which was restated and approved by the shareholders on December 12, 2015. Provisions of the restated 2007 Plan include the granting of up to 2,000,000 incentive and non-qualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock and restricted stock units. Options may be granted to employees, officers, non-employee directors and other service providers and may be granted upon such terms as the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors determines in their sole discretion. As of June 30, 2019, there were 569,585 options outstanding under the 2007 Plan. As of June 30, 2019, the 2007 Plan had 925,509 authorized unissued options. 
Level 1 - Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities. 
Level 2 - Observable inputs other than quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. This category generally includes U.S. Government and agency securities; municipal securities; mutual funds and securities sold and not yet settled. 
There have been no material changes to the risk factors included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018. 
