ClearOne is a global market leader enabling conferencing, collaboration, and network streaming solutions. The performance and simplicity of our advanced, comprehensive solutions offer unprecedented levels of functionality, reliability and scalability. 
We derive most of our revenue from professional audio conferencing products by promoting our products in the professional audio-visual channel. We have extended our total addressable market from installed audio conferencing market to adjacent complementary markets – microphones, video collaboration and networked audio and video streaming. We have achieved this through strategic technological acquisitions as well as by internal product development. 
In June 2018, at our industry’s largest trade show in North America, we introduced new audio products including significant additions to our CONVERGE® 2 audio conferencing platform, ceiling microphone array product line, and wireless microphone systems in the newly FCC allocated 537-563 MHz range. We also introduced new video solutions including economical new SKUs to our VIEW® AV Networking platform and a second-generation video cloud solution, COLLABORATE® Space. During the six months ended June 30, 2018 seven more patents related to video synchronization, speech technology, integrated microphone array and ceiling or wall tile, echo cancellation with beamforming microphone array, audio distribution over local area networks, and USB to Bluetooth audio bridging were issued to us. While focusing on strategic innovation that we believe will strengthen our competitive position, and accelerated product development, we have also planned and initiated a company-wide cost cutting programs. We also continued our vigorous litigation efforts to stop infringement of two of our strategic patents. 
Overall revenue declined in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 when compared to the three months and six months ended June 30, 2017, with declines seen in all product categories. Our gross profit margin decreased to 47% during the three months ended June 30, 2018 from 59% for the three months ended June 30, 2017. Gross profit margin decreased primarily due to an increase in inventory obsolescence costs, a decline in licensing revenues and due to reduced overhead absorption into inventory as we continue to reduce our net spend on inventory. Our gross profit margin decreased to 52% during the six months ended June 30, 2018 from 58% for the six months ended June 30, 2017. Gross profit margin decrease was primarily due to an increase in inventory obsolescence costs, a decline in licensing revenues and due to reduced overhead absorption into inventory. The proportion of overhead costs absorbed into inventory has declined due to a sharp decline in our inventory purchasing activity causing increased amounts of overhead costs to be expensed. 
Industry conditions 
We operate in a very dynamic and highly competitive industry which is dominated on the one hand by a few players with respect to certain products like traditional video conferencing appliances while on the other influenced heavily by a fragmented reseller market consisting of numerous regional and local players. The industry is also characterized by the influx of venture capitalist funded start-ups and private companies keen to win market share even at the expense of mounting financial losses. 
Economic conditions, challenges and risks 
The audio-visual products market is characterized by intense competition and rapidly evolving technology. Our competitors vary within each product category. The adoption of Beamforming Microphone Array 2, along with Converge Pro 2, our new platform for professional audio conferencing, remains challenged in large part because of our competitors’ product offering that directly infringes our strategic patents. The patent infringement also has had a material adverse effect on our revenue from ClearOne’s other products like wireless microphones, ceiling microphones and video products. 
Our revenues in the near term may be materially adversely affected by the resignation of a large US distributor in June 2018. 
Our strength in professional audio visual space is largely due to our industry leading conferencing technologies and the full suite of professional microphone products, especially Beamforming Microphone Arrays. Despite our strong leadership position in the professional audio communications products market, we face challenges to revenue growth due to the infringement of our patents by competitors, the limited size of the market and pricing pressures from new competitors attracted to the commercial market. 
Results of Operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 
Revenue 
Our revenue decreased by $3.3 million, or 32%, to $7.0 million in 2018-Q2 compared to $10.3 million in 2017-Q2. All product categories witnessed revenue declines with revenue declines of 35%, 15% and 30% for professional audio conferencing, unified communication end points and video products, respectively. The decline in revenue from professional audio conferencing products was mostly due to slower adoption of our Converge Pro 2 platform, largely caused by our competitors’ product offering that we believe directly infringes our strategic patents and due to a decline in licensing revenue. The share of professional audio communications products (which includes microphone products but not premium products) in our product mix declined from 73% in 2017-Q2 to 70% in 2018-Q2. Share of video products revenue during 2018-Q2 remained the same at 16% compared to 2017-Q2 and share of UC end points revenue increased from 11% in 2017-Q2 to 14% in 2018-Q2. During 2018-Q2, revenue declined across all regions except China and Latin America. The revenue declines for Asia Pacific including Middle East, Europe and Africa, and Americas were 16%, 10% and 41%, respectively. 
Costs of Goods Sold and Gross Profit 
Cost of goods sold (“COGS”) includes expenses associated with finished goods purchased from outsourced manufacturers, the manufacture of our products (including material and direct labor), our manufacturing and operations organization, property and equipment depreciation, warranty expense, freight expense, royalty payments, and the allocation of overhead expenses. 
Our profitability in the near-term continues to depend significantly on our revenues from professional audio conferencing products. We hold long-term inventory and if we are unable to sell our long-term inventory, our profitability might be affected by inventory write-offs and price mark-downs. Our long-term inventory includes approximately $2.7 million of wireless microphones related finished goods and assemblies, $2.7 million of Converge Pro 2 products and about $1.1 million of raw materials that will be used for manufacturing professional audio conferencing products. Any business changes that are adverse to these product lines could potentially impact our ability to sell these long-term inventory in addition to our current inventory. 
Operating Expenses 
Other income (expense), net 
Other income (expense), net, includes interest income, interest expense, and foreign currency changes. 
Other income reduced in 2018-Q2 and 2018-H1 due to reduction in interest income caused by decline in the investment holdings and due to higher realized losses on liquidated investments. 
During the six months ended June 30, 2018, we accrued income taxes at the forecasted effective tax benefit rate of 26.8% as compared to the forecasted effective tax rate of 127% used during the six months ended June 30, 2017. The 100.2% decrease in the forecasted effective tax rate was primarily due to the reduction in U.S. federal corporate tax rates as a result of the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and losses in certain foreign jurisdictions which cannot be benefited, which had a greater impact on the effective rate in 2017 due to differences in forecasted income as compared to 2018. In addition, a discrete tax expense of $64 thousand is primarily attributable to changes in income tax reserves related to an income tax audit in Hong Kong. 
As of June 30, 2018, our cash and cash equivalents were approximately $4.1 compared to $5.6 million as of December 31, 2017. Our working capital was $23.2 million and $23.3 million as of June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. 
Net cash used in operating activities was approximately $1.9 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018, a decrease of cash used of approximately $2.8 million from $4.7 million of cash used in operating activities in the six months ended June 30, 2018. The decrease in cash used was primarily due to an increase in cash inflows due to change in operating assets and liabilities of $6.1 million partially offset by an increase in net loss by $2.7 million and decrease in non-cash charges of $0.6 million. 
Net cash used in financing activities was approximately $0.7 million during the six months ended June 30, 2018, which consisted of cash outflows of $0.1 million on repurchase and cancellation of stock and $0.6 million for dividend payments. Net cash used in financing activities was approximately $4.2 million during the six months ended June 30, 2017, which consisted of cash outflows of $3.2 million on repurchase and cancellation of stock and stock options and $1.1 million for dividend payments. 
We are currently pursuing all available legal remedies to defend our strategic patents from infringement. We have already incurred approximately $6.2 million from 2016 through June 30, 2018 towards this litigation and may be required to incur more to continue to enforce our patents. We have been actively engaged in preserving cash by suspending our dividend program, allowing the share repurchase program to expire and implementing company-wide cost reduction measures. In addition, we expect to generate additional cash as our inventory levels are brought down to historical levels. We also believe, although there can be no assurance, that the measures taken by us will yield higher revenues in the future. We believe all of these and effective management of working capital will provide the liquidity needed to meet our short-term and long-term operating requirements and finance our growth plans. We also believe that our strong portfolio of intellectual property and our solid brand equity in the market will enable us to raise additional capital if and when needed to meet our short and long-term financing needs, although there can be no assurance that we would be able to do so on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. In addition to capital expenditures, we may use cash in the near future for selective infusions of technology, sales and marketing, infrastructure, and other investments to fuel our growth. 
At June 30, 2018, we had inventory totaling $22.7 million, of which non-current inventory accounted for $8.4 million. This compares to total inventories of $24.7 million and non-current inventory of $8.7 million as of December 31, 2017. Our non-current inventory includes approximately $2.7 million of wireless microphones related finished goods and assemblies, $2.7 million of Converge Pro 2 products and about $1.1 million of raw materials that will be used for manufacturing professional audio conferencing products. Any business changes that are adverse to these product lines could potentially impact our ability to sell these long-term inventory in addition to our current inventory. 
