ClearOne is a global market leader enabling conferencing, collaboration, and network streaming solutions. The performance and simplicity of our advanced, comprehensive solutions offer unprecedented levels of functionality, reliability and scalability. 
We derive most of our revenue from professional audio conferencing products by promoting our products in the professional audio-visual channel. We have extended our total addressable market from installed audio conferencing market to adjacent complementary markets – microphones, video collaboration and networked audio and video streaming. We have achieved this through strategic technological acquisitions as well as by internal product development. 
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, we were awarded four more patents related to video synchronization, speech technology, integrated microphone array and ceiling or wall tile and echo cancellation with beamforming microphone array. 
Overall revenue declined in the three months ended March 31, 2018 when compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, with declines seen in all product categories. Our gross profit margin decreased to 56% during the three months ended March 31, 2018 from 57% for the three months ended March 31, 2017. Gross profit margin decrease was primarily due to increase in inventory obsolescence costs and decline in licensing revenues. 
We operate in a very dynamic and highly competitive industry which is dominated on the one hand by a few players with respect to certain products like traditional video conferencing appliances while on the other influenced heavily by a fragmented reseller market consisting of numerous regional and local players. The industry is also characterized by the influx of venture capitalist funded start-ups and private companies keen to win market share even at the expense of mounting financial losses. 
Economic conditions, challenges and risks 
The audio-visual products market is characterized by intense competition and rapidly evolving technology. Our competitors vary within each product category. The adoption of Beamforming Microphone Array 2, along with our Converge Pro 2, our new platform for professional audio conferencing, remains challenged in large part because of our competitors’ product offering that directly infringes our strategic patents. The patent infringement has also affected revenue from ClearOne’s other products like wireless microphones and ceiling microphones. 
Our revenues in the near term may also be adversely affected by the resignation of a large US distributor in June 2018. 
Our strength in professional audio visual space is largely due to our industry leading conferencing technologies and the full suite of professional microphone products, especially Beamforming Microphone Arrays. Despite our strong leadership position in the professional audio communications products market, we face challenges to revenue growth due to the limited size of the market and pricing pressures from new competitors attracted to the commercial market. 
Revenue from our video products in the overall revenue mix has been improving on the back of a strong growth for our video products in 2016 that had continued in 2017. We face intense competition in this market from well-established market leaders as well as emerging players rich with marketing funds. We expect our strategy of combining Spontania, our cloud-based video conferencing product, Collaborate, our appliance based media collaboration product and our high-end audio conferencing technology to provide growth in revenue in the near future. We believe we are also well positioned to capitalize on the continuing migration away from the traditional hardware based video conferencing systems to software based video conferencing applications. 
We derive a large portion of our revenue (about 49%) from international operations and expect this trend to continue in the future. Most of our revenue from outside the U.S. is billed in US Dollars and is not exposed to any significant currency risk. 
Results of Operations for the three months ended March 31, 2018 
Revenue 
Our revenue decreased by $4.4 million, or 38%, to $7.3 million in 2018-Q1 compared to $11.7 million in 2017-Q1. All product categories witnessed revenue declines with revenue declines of 43%, 23% and 20% for professional audio conferencing, unified communication end points and video products, respectively. The decline in revenue from professional audio conferencing products was mostly due to slower adoption of our Converge Pro 2 platform, largely caused by our competitors’ product offering that we believe directly infringes our strategic patents and due to a decline in licensing revenue. The share of professional audio communications products (which includes microphone products but not premium products) in our product mix declined from 74% in 2017-Q1 to 68% in 2018-Q1. Share of video products in the revenue increased from 14% in 2017-Q1 to 18% in 2018-Q1 and share of UC end points in the revenue increased from 12% in 2017-Q1 to 14% in 2018-Q1. During 2018-Q1, revenue declined across all regions except Canada and Australia. The revenue declines for Asia Pacific including Middle East, Europe and Africa, and Americas were 28%, 16% and 44%, respectively. 
Costs of Goods Sold and Gross Profit 
Cost of goods sold (“COGS”) includes expenses associated with finished goods purchased from outsourced manufacturers, the manufacture of our products (including material and direct labor), our manufacturing and operations organization, property and equipment depreciation, warranty expense, freight expense, royalty payments, and the allocation of overhead expenses. 
Operating Expenses 
Other income (expense), net 
Other income (expense), net, includes interest income, interest expense, and foreign currency changes. 
Other income reduced in 2018-Q1 due to reduction in interest income caused by decline in the investment holdings and due to higher realized losses on liquidated investments. 
During 2018-Q1, we accrued income taxes at the forecasted effective tax benefit rate of 27.0% as compared to the forecasted effective tax rate of 30.9% used during 2017-Q1. The 3.9% decrease in the forecasted effective tax rate was primarily due to a reduction in corporate tax rates as a result of the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, offset by a decrease in forecasted full-year income. In addition, a discrete tax expense of $62 thousand is primarily attributable to changes in income tax reserves related to an income tax audit in Hong Kong. 
As of March 31, 2018, our cash and cash equivalents were approximately $5.6 million with no material change from December 31, 2017. Our working capital was $24.9 million and $23.3 million as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. 
Net cash used in operating activities was approximately $0.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, a decrease of cash used of approximately $1.1 million from $1.4 million of cash used in operating activities in the three months ended March 31, 2017. The increase was primarily due to an increase in cash inflows due to change in operating assets and liabilities of $2.9 million partially offset by an increase in net loss by $1.4 million and a decrease in non-cash charges of $0.4 million. 
We are currently pursuing all available legal remedies to defend our strategic patents from infringement. We have already spent about $5.1 million from 2016 through March 31, 2018 towards this litigation and may be required to spend more to continue our legal defense. We have been actively engaged in preserving cash by suspending our dividend program, allowing the share repurchase program to expire and implementing company-wide cost reduction measures. In addition, we expect to generate additional cash as our inventory levels are brought down to historical levels. We also believe that the measures taken by us will yield higher revenues in the future. We believe all of these and effective management of working capital will provide the liquidity needed to meet our short-term and long-term operating requirements and finance our growth plans. We also believe that our strong portfolio of intellectual property and our solid brand equity in the market will enable us to raise additional capital if and when needed to meet our short and long-term financing needs. In addition to capital expenditures, we may use cash in the near future for selective infusions of technology, sales and marketing, infrastructure, and other investments to fuel our growth. 
At March 31, 2018, we had inventory totaling $23.2 million, of which non-current inventory accounted for $8.6 million. This compares to total inventories of $24.7 million and non-current inventory of $8.7 million as of December 31, 2017. 
On March 1, 2017, the Board of Directors of the Company renewed and extended the repurchase program for up to an additional $10 million of common stock over the next twelve months. In connection with the repurchase extension authorization, the Company was authorized to complete the repurchase through open market transactions or through an accelerated share repurchase program, in each case to be executed at management’s discretion based on business and market conditions, stock price, trading restrictions, acquisition activity and other factors. The transactions effectuated to date occurred in open market purchases. 
