1. Business Description, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies 
ClearOne, Inc., together with its subsidiaries (collectively, “ClearOne” or the “Company”), is a global market leader enabling conferencing, collaboration, and network streaming solutions. The performance and simplicity of our advanced, comprehensive solutions offer unprecedented levels of functionality, reliability and scalability. 
The fiscal year for ClearOne is the 12 months ending on December 31. The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of ClearOne and its subsidiaries. All significant inter-company accounts and transactions have been eliminated. 
Prior to our change in accounting policy, revenue from product sales to distributors was not recognized until the return privilege had expired or until it can be determined with reasonable certainty that the return privilege had expired, which approximated when the product was sold-through to customers of our distributors (dealers, system integrators, value-added resellers, and end-users), rather than when the product was initially shipped to a distributor. At each quarter-end, we evaluated the inventory in the distribution channel through information provided by our distributors. The level of inventory in the channel fluctuated up or down each quarter based upon our distributors’ individual operations. Accordingly, each quarter-end deferral of revenue and associated cost of goods sold were calculated and recorded based upon the actual channel inventory reported at quarter-end. Further, with respect to distributors and other channel partners not reporting the channel inventory, the revenue and associated cost of goods sold were deferred until we received payment for the product sales made to such distributors or channel partners. 
Sales agreements with customers are renewable periodically and contain terms and conditions with respect to payment, delivery, warranty and supply, but typically do not require mandatory purchase commitments. In the absence of a sales agreement, the Company’s standard terms and conditions at the time of acceptance of purchase orders apply. The Company considers the customer purchase orders, governed by sales agreements or the Company’s standard terms and conditions, to be the contract with the customer. The Company evaluates certain factors including the customer’s ability to pay (or credit risk). 
Frequently, the Company receives orders with multiple delivery dates that may extend across reporting periods. Since each delivery constitutes a performance obligation, the Company allocates the transaction price of the contract to each performance obligation based on the stand-alone selling price of the products. The Company invoices the customer for each delivery upon shipment and recognizes revenues in accordance with delivery terms. Although payment terms vary, distributors typically pay within 45 days of invoicing and dealers pay within 30 days of invoicing. As scheduled delivery dates are within one year, revenue allocated to future shipments of partially completed contracts are not disclosed. 
In February 2016, the FASB released ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) to bring transparency to lessee balance sheets. The ASU will require organizations that lease assets (lessees) to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by all leases with terms of more than 12 months. The standard will apply to both types of leases-capital (or finance) leases and operating leases. Previously, GAAP has required only capital leases to be recognized on lessee balance sheets. The standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018 and interim periods within fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018. Early application will be permitted for all organizations. The Company has not yet selected a transition method and is currently evaluating the effect that the updated standard will have on the consolidated financial statements. 
In August 2016, the FASB released ASU No. 2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments, which addresses eight specific cash flow issues with the objective of reducing the existing diversity in practice. ASU 2016-15 became effective for the Company on January 1, 2018. ASU 2016-15 had no material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
3. Earnings (Loss) Per Share 
Current finished goods did not include distributor channel inventories in the amounts of approximately $1,555 as of December 31, 2017. Distributor channel inventories represented inventories at distributors and other customers where revenue recognition criteria had not yet been achieved. 
Net loss incurred on valuation of inventory at lower of cost or market value and write-off of obsolete inventory during the three months ended March 31, 2018 was $255. During the three months ended March 31, 2017 benefit from the reduction of reserves for valuation of inventory at lower of cost or market value was $34. 
Employee Stock Option Plans 
The Company’s share-based incentive plans offering stock options are offered under the Company’s 2007 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2007 Plan”), which was restated and approved by the shareholders on December 12, 2015. Provisions of the restated 2007 Plan include the granting of up to 2,000,000 incentive and non-qualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock and restricted stock units. Options may be granted to employees, officers, non-employee directors and other service providers and may be granted upon such terms as the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors determines in their sole discretion. As of March 31, 2018, there were 744,936 options outstanding under the 2007 Plan. As of March 31, 2018, the 2007 Plan had 749,158 authorized unissued options. 
As of March 31, 2018, the total remaining unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested stock options, net of forfeitures, was approximately $632, which will be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.63 years. 
Stock Repurchase Program 
On March 9, 2016, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized the repurchase of up to $10,000 of the Company’s outstanding shares of common stock under a stock repurchase program. In connection with the repurchase authorization, the Company was authorized to complete the repurchase through open market transactions or through an accelerated share repurchase program, in each case to be executed at management’s discretion based on business and market conditions, stock price, trading restrictions, acquisition activity and other factors. The transactions effectuated to date occurred in open market purchases. 
On March 1, 2017, the Board of Directors of the Company renewed and extended the repurchase program for up to an additional $10,000 of common stock over the next twelve months. In connection with the repurchase extension authorization, the Company was authorized to complete the repurchase through open market transactions or through an accelerated share repurchase program, in each case to be executed at management’s discretion based on business and market conditions, stock price, trading restrictions, acquisition activity and other factors. The transactions effectuated to date occurred in open market purchases. 
Upon expiry of this repurchase program in March 2018, the program was not renewed again. 
Cash Dividends 
On February 21, 2018, the Company declared a cash dividend of $0.07 per share of ClearOne common stock. The dividend was paid on March 21, 2018 to shareholders of record as of March 7, 2018. On June 13, 2018, the Company announced the suspension of its dividend program. 
9. Fair Value Measurements 
Level 1 - Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities. 
Level 2 - Observable inputs other than quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. This category generally includes U.S. Government and agency securities; municipal securities; mutual funds and securities sold and not yet settled. 
The Company’s forecasted effective tax benefit rate at March 31, 2018 is 27.0%, a 16.2% increase from the 10.8% effective tax rate recorded at December 31, 2017. The 16.2% increase is primarily due to the enactment in 2017 of the Tax Cuts and Jobs act, which resulted in a lower corporate tax rate and a revaluation of the Company's net deferred tax assets. The forecasted effective tax benefit rate of 27.0% excludes jurisdictions for which no benefit from forecasted current year losses is anticipated. Including losses from such jurisdictions results in a forecasted effective tax benefit rate of 26.0%. Our forecasted effective tax rate could fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis and could change, to the extent that earnings in countries with tax rates that differ from that of the U.S. differ from amounts anticipated at March 31, 2018. 
On June 13, 2018, the Company announced suspension of its quarterly cash dividend program. 
There have been no material developments in the legal proceedings described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017. 
There have been no material changes to the risk factors included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017. 
