ClearOne is a global Company that designs, develops and sells conferencing, collaboration, and AV networking solutions for voice and visual communications. The performance and simplicity of our advanced, comprehensive solutions offer a high level of functionality, reliability and scalability. We derive a major portion of our revenue from audio conferencing products and microphones by promoting our products in the professional audio-visual channel. We have extended our total addressable market from the installed audio conferencing market to adjacent complementary markets – microphones, video collaboration and AV networking. We have achieved this through strategic technological acquisitions as well as by internal product development. 
In August 2019, the United States Patent and Trademark Office issued patent number 10,397,697 to ClearOne. This patent, entitled “Band-Limited Beamforming Microphone Array,” describes a method, among other things, of making or using a band-limited beamforming microphone array by augmenting beamformed audio signals with additional audio signals that are not included in the beamforming process. The microphones that generate these additional signals are referred to as non-beamforming microphones. The invention significantly extends design flexibility because the augmented beamforming technology enables a broad range of design choices from larger, higher performance, higher cost beamforming arrays, to smaller beamforming arrays with good performance for less demanding environments at a lower cost.  
With COLLABORATE Space, users can work together one-on-one, or in groups of hundreds, with integrated file sharing, searchable archives, and user presence information. They can connect with colleagues and contacts, via audio and video, with the most intuitive collaboration tools. Users can meet immediately or schedule a meeting and access a full suite of collaboration features, including file sharing, whiteboarding, annotation, chat, and meeting minutes. 
We also continued our programs to cut costs and to speed up product development that we believe will enable us to get back to a growth path. 
Overall revenue declined in the third quarter of 2019 when compared to the third quarter of 2018, with declines seen in all product categories except microphones. We believe the on-going infringement of ClearOne’s patents is the major cause of our revenue decline in the audio conferencing and microphones categories. Our gross profit margin decreased from 45% in the third quarter of 2018 to 42% during the third quarter of 2019. Net loss decreased from $10.1 million in the third quarter of 2018 to $2.0 million in the third quarter of 2019. The net loss in the third quarter of 2018 included about $7.8 million in tax expenses due to recording of valuation allowance as we concluded that it was more likely than not that our deferred tax assets were not realizable primarily due to the Company's continuing pre-tax losses.  
Overall revenue declined in the first nine months of 2019 when compared to same period in 2018, with declines seen in all product categories, except video. We believe the on-going infringement of ClearOne’s patents — which is improperly forcing the Company to compete against its own patented technology — is the major cause of our revenue decline in the audio conferencing and microphones categories. We believe the revenue decline in video products was caused partially by increased competition in the space as well as due to reduced attention from our partners caused by the alternatives made available through infringement of our patents. Our gross profit margin decreased to 44% during the first nine months of 2019 from 49% during the same nine months in 2018. Gross profit margin decreased primarily due to increased material costs and reduction of higher margin professional audio conferencing products in the revenue mix. Net loss during the first nine months of 2019 decreased to $6.4 million from $14.2 million during the same period in 2018. The net loss in 2018 included about $7.8 million in tax expenses due to recording of a valuation allowance as we concluded that it was more likely than not that our deferred tax assets were not realizable primarily due to the Company's continuing pre-tax losses.  
Industry conditions 
We operate in a very dynamic and highly competitive industry which is dominated on the one hand by a few players with respect to certain products like traditional video conferencing appliances while on the other influenced heavily by a fragmented reseller market consisting of numerous regional and local players. The industry is also characterized by venture capitalist funded start-ups and private companies willing to fund cumulative cash losses in order to gain market share and achieve certain non-financial goals. 
Economic conditions, challenges and risks 
The audio-visual products market is characterized by intense competition and rapidly evolving technology. Our competitors vary within each product category. Our installed professional audio conferencing products, which is our flagship product category, continue to be ahead of the competition despite the reduction in revenues. Our strength in this space is largely due to our fully integrated suite of products consisting of DSP mixers, wide range of professional microphone products and video collaboration products. Despite our strong leadership position in the installed professional audio conferencing market, we face challenges to revenue growth due to the limited size of the market and pricing pressures from new competitors attracted to the commercial market due to higher margins. 
Revenue from our video products are critical to our long-term growth. We face intense competition in this market from well-established market leaders as well as emerging players rich with marketing funds. We expect our strategy of combining Spontania, our cloud-based video conferencing product, Collaborate, our appliance-based media collaboration product, our high-quality professional cameras, and our high-end audio conferencing technology will generate high growth in the near future. We believe we are also well positioned to capitalize on the continuing migration away from the traditional hardware-based video conferencing systems to software-based video conferencing applications. 
We derive a major portion of our revenue (approximately 47% for the year ended December 31, 2018) from international operations and expect this trend to continue in the future. Most of our revenue from outside the U.S. is billed in U.S. dollars and is not exposed to any significant currency risk. However, we are exposed to foreign exchange risk if the U.S. dollar is strong against other currencies as it will make U.S. Dollar denominated prices of our products less competitive. 
Results of Operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 
Revenue 
Our revenue decreased to $6.0 million in 2019-Q3 compared to $6.7 million in 2018-Q3. The highest decline was seen in the video category with a 21.5% decline followed by audio conferencing with a 15% decline. Revenue from microphones grew by 3% due to modest growth in sales of ceiling mics and beamforming microphones. The decline in the audio conferencing category was due to a decline in the professional installed audio conferencing and personal conferencing. The decline in the video category was due to a decline in both network media streaming and video conferencing. We believe that the on-going infringement of ClearOne’s patents is the major cause of our revenue decline in audio conferencing and the microphone categories. The share of audio conferencing products in our product mix decreased from 51% in 2018-Q3 to 49% in 2019-Q3. The share of microphones increased from 32% to 37%. The share of video products in the revenue mix dropped slightly to 15% from 17%. During 2019-Q3 revenue declined in the USA, Canada, Australia, China, and Northern Europe offset by revenue increases in Japan, South Korea, Middle East, India, and Southern Europe. The Asia Pacific, including the Middle East, increased by 14%, Europe and Africa declined by 9% and the Americas declined by 21%. 
Our revenue decreased to $18.7 million in 2019 YTD compared to $20.9 million in 2018 YTD. The highest decline was seen in the audio conferencing category with a 20% decline followed by microphones with a 2% decline. Revenue from video products grew by a modest 3% mainly due to growth in revenue from sales of videoconferencing appliances, cameras and cloud-based videoconferencing services. The decline in the audio conferencing category was due to a decline in all subcategories including professional installed audio conferencing, personal conferencing and tabletop conferencing. The decline in the microphones category was due to a decline in beamforming microphones and ceiling microphones offset by an increase in revenue from wireless mics. The on-going infringement of ClearOne’s patents is the major cause of our revenue decline in audio conferencing and microphone categories. The share of audio conferencing products in our product mix decreased from 51% in 2018 YTD to 46% in 2019 YTD. The share of microphones increased from 32% to 35%. The share of video products in the revenue mix increased from 17% to 20%. During 2019-YTD revenue declined in all regions except the Middle East, India, South Korea, and Southern Europe. The decline was more pronounced in Canada, China, Australia, and Northern Europe. The Asia Pacific, including the Middle East increased by 3%, Europe and Africa declined by 12% and the Americas declined by 16%. 
Costs of Goods Sold and Gross Profit 
Our gross profit for 2019-Q3 was approximately $2.5 million or 42% compared to approximately $3.0 million, or 45%, for 2018-Q3. Gross Profit margin decreased mainly due to an increase in inventory obsolescence costs. 
Our gross profit margin decreased to 44% during 2019 YTD from 49% during 2018 YTD. The gross profit margin decreased primarily due to increased material costs and the reduction of higher-margin professional audio conferencing products in the revenue mix. 
Our profitability in the near-term continues to depend significantly on our revenues from professional installed audio-conferencing products. We hold long-term inventory and if we are unable to sell our long-term inventory, our profitability might be affected by inventory write-offs and price mark-downs. Our long-term inventory includes approximately $1.6 million of wireless microphone-related finished goods and assemblies, $1.8 million of Converge Pro and Beamforming microphone array products, $0.8 million of network media streaming products and about $1.9 million of raw materials that will be used for manufacturing professional audio conferencing products. Any business changes that are adverse to these product lines could potentially impact our ability to sell our long-term inventory in addition to our current inventory. 
Operating Expenses 
Other income (expense), net 
Other income (expense), net, includes interest income, interest expense, and foreign currency changes. Other income increased to $142,000 in 2019-Q3 compared to $5,000 in 2018-Q3. The increase was mainly due to the recording of realized gain on sale of marketable securities of $83,000 in 2019-Q3. Other income increased to $0.2 million from $0.1 million in 2018 YTD. The increase was mainly due to the increase in realized gain on sale of marketable securities.  
During 2019 YTD, we did not recognize any benefit from the losses incurred due to setting up of full valuation allowance. Income tax expense for 2019-Q3 and 2019 YTD represents current income tax expense recorded for jurisdictions outside the United States. During 2018-Q3 the Company recorded discrete tax expense of $6.5 million, due primarily to the recording of a full valuation allowance on the Company’s net deferred tax assets. 
As of September 30, 2019, our cash and cash equivalents were approximately $2.0 million compared to $11.2 million as of December 31, 2018. Our working capital was $22.5 million and $28.4 million as of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively. 
Net cash used in operating activities was approximately $6.6 million in 2019 YTD, an increase of cash used of approximately $3.0 million from $3.6 million of cash used in operating activities in 2018 YTD. The increase in cash used was primarily due to a decrease in non-cash charges of $3.4 million and increase in cash outflows due to change in operating assets and liabilities of $7.3 million which includes $4.5 million towards payment of a bond for securing the preliminary injunction in our litigation to stop the infringement of our patents, partially offset by a decrease in net loss by $7.7 million. 
Net cash used in investing activities was $2.6 million for 2019 YTD compared to net cash provided by investing activities of $1.3 million during the 2018 YTD, an increase in cash used of $3.9 million. The increase in cash used in investing activities was primarily due to a decrease in net cash inflows from marketable securities of approximately $4.3 million partially offset by a decrease in capitalized patent defense costs by $0.2 million. 
We have been actively engaged in preserving cash by suspending our dividend program, allowing our share repurchase program to expire and implementing company-wide cost reduction measures. In addition, we expect to generate additional cash as our inventory levels are brought down to historical levels. We also believe that the measures taken by us will yield higher revenues in the future. We believe all of these and effective management of working capital will provide the liquidity needed to meet our short-term and long-term operating requirements and finance our growth plans. We also believe that our strong portfolio of intellectual property and our solid brand equity in the market will enable us to raise additional capital if and when needed to meet our short and long-term financing needs. In addition to capital expenditures, we may use cash in the near future for selective infusions of technology, sales and marketing, infrastructure, and other investments to fuel our growth. 
At September 30, 2019, we had open purchase orders of approximately $1.0 million for purchase of inventory. 
At September 30, 2019, we had inventory totaling $18.8 million, of which non-current inventory accounted for $7.1 million. This compares to total inventories of $22.2 million and non-current inventory of $9.0 million as of December 31, 2018. 
