ClearOne is a global market leader enabling conferencing, collaboration, and network streaming solutions. The performance and simplicity of our advanced, comprehensive solutions offer unprecedented levels of functionality, reliability and scalability. 
We derive most of our revenue from professional audio conferencing products by promoting our products in the professional audio-visual channel. We have extended our total addressable market from installed audio conferencing market to adjacent complementary markets – microphones, video collaboration and networked audio and video streaming. We have achieved this through strategic technological acquisitions as well as by internal product development. 
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, seven more patents related to video synchronization, speech technology, integrated microphone array and ceiling or wall tile, echo cancellation with beamforming microphone array, audio distribution over local area networks, and USB to Bluetooth audio bridging were issued to us. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we continued our serious litigation efforts to stop infringement of two of our strategic patents. We introduced a new ceiling microphone array product line and made improvements to our VIEW Pro and Converge Pro 2 product lines. We also launched many new products including Collaborate Space, Converge Amplifier and wireless microphone systems in 537-563 MHz range at our industry’s largest trade show in North America. We have also been focusing on company-wide cost cutting programs and speeding up product development that we believe will enable us to surpass our competitors. 
Overall revenue declined in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 when compared to the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2017, with declines seen in all product categories. Our gross profit margin decreased to 45% during the three months ended September 30, 2018 from 62% for the three months ended September 30, 2017. Gross profit margin decreased primarily due to an increase in inventory obsolescence costs, a decline in licensing revenues and reduced overhead absorption into inventory as we continue to reduce our net spend on inventory. Our gross profit margin decreased to 49% during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 from 59% for the nine months ended September 30, 2017. Gross profit margin decrease was primarily due to an increase in inventory obsolescence costs, a decline in licensing revenues, and reduced overhead absorption into inventory. The proportion of overhead costs absorbed into inventory has declined due to a sharp decline in our inventory purchasing activity causing increased amounts of overhead costs to be expensed. 
We operate in a very dynamic and highly competitive industry which is dominated on the one hand by a few players with respect to certain products like traditional video conferencing appliances while on the other influenced heavily by a fragmented reseller market consisting of numerous regional and local players. The industry is also characterized by the influx of venture capitalist funded start-ups and private companies keen to win market share even at the expense of mounting financial losses. 
Economic conditions, challenges and risks 
The audio-visual products market is characterized by intense competition and rapidly evolving technology. Our competitors vary within each product category. The adoption of Beamforming Microphone Array 2, along with our Converge Pro 2, our new platform for professional audio conferencing, remains challenged in large part because of our competitors’ product offering that directly infringes our strategic patents. The patent infringement also has had a material adverse effect on revenue from ClearOne’s other products like wireless microphones, ceiling microphones and video products. 
Our revenues in the near term may also be adversely affected by the resignation of a large US distributor in June 2018. 
Our strength in the professional audio visual space is largely due to our industry leading conferencing technologies and the full suite of professional microphone products, especially Beamforming Microphone Arrays. Despite our strong leadership position in the professional audio communications products market, we face challenges to revenue growth due to the infringement of our patents by competitors, the limited size of the market and pricing pressures from new competitors attracted to the commercial market. 
Results of Operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 
Revenue 
Our revenue decreased by $3.9 million, or 37%, to $6.7 million in 2018-Q3 compared to $10.6 million in 2017-Q3. All product categories witnessed revenue declines with revenue declines of 31%, 28% and 55% for professional audio conferencing, unified communication end points and video products, respectively. The decline in revenue from professional audio conferencing products was mostly due to slower adoption of our Converge Pro 2 platform, largely caused by our competitors’ product offering that we believe directly infringes our strategic patents and due to a decline in licensing revenue. The share of professional audio communications products (which includes microphone products but not premium products) in our product mix increased from 66% in 2017-Q3 to 72% in 2018-Q3. Share of video products in the revenue during 2018-Q3 decreased from 24% in 2017-Q3 to 17% in 2018-Q3. Share of UC end points in the revenue increased from 10% in 2017-Q3 to 12% in 2018-Q3. During 2018-Q3, revenue declined across all regions except Canada and parts of Europe. The revenue declines for Asia Pacific including Middle East, Europe and Africa, and Americas were 53%, 13% and 30%, respectively. 
Costs of Goods Sold and Gross Profit 
Our profitability in the near-term continues to depend significantly on our revenues from professional audio conferencing products. We hold long-term inventory and if we are unable to sell our long-term inventory, our profitability might be affected by inventory write-offs and price mark-downs. Our long-term inventory includes approximately $2.7 million of wireless microphones related finished goods and assemblies, $2.4 million of Converge Pro 2 products and about $1.1 million of raw materials that will be used for manufacturing professional audio conferencing products. Any business changes that are adverse to these product lines could potentially impact our ability to sell these long-term inventory in addition to our current inventory. 
Operating Expenses 
The following contains a more detailed discussion of expenses related to sales and marketing, research and product development, general and administrative, and other items. 
Impairment of Goodwill and an intangible asset - At the end of September 30, 2017, based on the results of the Company’s impairment analysis the Company recognized a charge of $12.7 million towards goodwill impairment and $0.7 million towards the intangible asset impairment for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017. There were no such impairment charges in 2018-Q3 or 2018YTD. 
Other income (expense), net 
Other income (expense), net, includes interest income, interest expense, and foreign currency changes. 
Other income reduced in 2018-Q3 and 2018YTD due to reduction in interest income caused by decline in the investment holdings and due to higher realized losses on liquidated investments. 
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we accrued income taxes at the forecasted effective tax benefit rate of 0% as compared to the forecasted effective tax benefit rate of 36.1% used during the nine months ended September 30, 2017. The 36.1% decrease in the forecasted effective tax benefit rate was primarily due to the recording in 2018-Q3 of a full valuation allowance on the Company’s net deferred tax assets. 
As of September 30, 2018, our cash and cash equivalents were approximately $2.5 million compared to $5.6 million as of December 31, 2017. Our working capital was $20.2 million and $23.3 million as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. 
Net cash used in operating activities was approximately $3.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, a decrease of cash used of approximately $4.1 million from $7.6 million of cash used in operating activities in the nine months ended September 30, 2017. The decrease in cash used was primarily due to an increase in cash inflows due to change in operating assets and liabilities of $9.0 million partially offset by an increase in net loss by $3.6 million and decrease in non-cash charges of $1.3 million. 
Net cash provided by investing activities was $1.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 compared to net cash flows provided by investing activities of $4.4 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2017, a decrease in cash provided of $3.2 million. The decrease was due to increase in capitalization of patent defense costs by $2.7 million and decrease in proceeds from marketable securities net of purchases of approximately $0.8 million, partially offset by a decline in purchases of property and equipment and intangibles. 
Net cash used in financing activities was approximately $0.7 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, which mainly consisted of cash outflows of $0.1 million on repurchase and cancellation of stock and $0.6 million for dividend payments. Net cash used in financing activities was approximately $6.0 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2017, which consisted of cash outflows of $4.4 million on repurchase and cancellation of stock and stock options and $1.7 million for dividend payments. 
We are currently pursuing all available legal remedies to defend our strategic patents from infringement. We have already incurred approximately $7.4 million in expenses from 2016 through September 30, 2018 towards this litigation and may be required to incur more to continue to enforce our patents. We have been actively engaged in preserving cash by suspending our dividend program, allowing the share repurchase program to expire and implementing company-wide cost reduction measures. In addition, we expect to generate additional cash from our rights offering that we commenced on November 5, 2018 and as our inventory levels are brought down to historical levels. We also believe that the measures taken by us will yield higher revenues in the future. We believe all of these and effective management of working capital will provide the liquidity needed to meet our short-term and long-term operating requirements and finance our growth plans. We also believe that our strong portfolio of intellectual property and our solid brand equity in the market will enable us to raise additional capital if and when needed to meet our short and long-term financing needs. In addition to capital expenditures, we may use cash in the near future for selective infusions of technology, sales and marketing, infrastructure, and other investments to fuel our growth. 
At September 30, 2018, we had inventory totaling $21.6 million, of which non-current inventory accounted for $8.3 million. This compares to total inventories of $24.7 million and non-current inventory of $8.7 million as of December 31, 2017. Our non-current inventory includes approximately $2.7 million of wireless microphones related finished goods and assemblies, $2.4 million of Converge Pro 2 products and about $1.1 million of raw materials that will be used for manufacturing professional audio conferencing products. Any business changes that are adverse to these product lines could potentially impact our ability to sell these long-term inventory in addition to our current inventory. 
Upon expiry of this repurchase program in March 2018, the program was not renewed again. 
