Item 1.
We have provided information about legal proceedings in which we are involved in our fiscal 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we have provided an update to this information in Note 9 of the notes to the condensed and consolidated financial statements contained within this report.
In addition to the described legal proceedings, we are routinely subject to investigations and reviews relating to compliance with various laws and regulations.
Additional information regarding such investigations and reviews is included in our fiscal 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we have also updated this information in Note 9 of the notes to the condensed and consolidated financial statements contained within this report, under the heading “Government Investigations, Audits and Reviews.”
Item 1A.
•potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated with the merger.
These benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all.
Furthermore, additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of the businesses.
In addition, we have operated and, until the completion of the merger will continue to operate, independently.
These and other factors could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, employees and other partners, and our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger.
The exchange ratio will not be adjusted in the event of any change in either the Company or Engility stock price.
The price of SAIC common shares at the closing of the merger may vary from the price on the date the Merger Agreement was executed and the dates of the respective special meetings of our stockholders and Engility’s stockholders.
As a result, the market value of the merger consideration may also vary.
We and Engility will incur direct and indirect costs as a result of the Merger.
We and Engility will incur substantial expenses in connection with and as a result of completing the merger and, over a period of time following the completion of the merger, we further expect to incur substantial expenses in connection with coordinating our businesses, operations, policies and procedures and Engility’s.
While we have assumed that a certain level of transaction expenses will be incurred, factors beyond our control could affect the total amount or the timing of these expenses.
Many of the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately.
We may not obtain sufficient financing to repay certain outstanding obligations of Engility upon closing.
We have entered into a debt commitment letter pursuant to which Citigroup Global Markets Inc. has committed to provide us with a new seven-year senior secured $1.05 billion Term Loan B structured as an incremental facility under our existing credit agreement.
The proceeds of this new financing are necessary to enable us to repay Engility’s existing credit facility and outstanding notes.
Citibank’s obligation to provide us financing under the debt commitment letter, however, is subject to specified limited conditions, and we cannot assure you that these conditions will be met.
The closing of the merger is not conditioned on our ability to obtain financing.
Item 2.
Purchases of Equity Securities.
We may repurchase shares on the open market in accordance with established repurchase plans.
We also repurchase shares in connection with stock option and stock award activities to satisfy tax withholding obligations.
Item 5.
Item 6.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Charles A. Mathis
