Science Applications International Corporation (collectively, with its consolidated subsidiaries, the “Company”) is a leading provider of technical, engineering and enterprise information technology (IT) services primarily to the U.S. government.
The Company provides engineering and integration services for large, complex projects and offers a broad range of services with a targeted emphasis on higher-end, differentiated technology services.
The Company is organized as a matrix comprised of three customer facing operating segments supported by a solutions and technology group.
Each of the Company’s three customer facing operating segments is focused on providing the Company’s comprehensive technical and enterprise IT service offerings to one or more agencies of the U.S federal government.
The Company's operating segments are aggregated into one reportable segment for financial reporting purposes.
The accompanying financial information has been prepared by the Company pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission for interim reporting purposes.
These financial statements were prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
All intercompany transactions and account balances within the Company have been eliminated.
The financial statements are unaudited, but in the opinion of management include all adjustments, which consist of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation thereof.
As a result of the acquisition of Engility, the Company holds a 50.1% majority interest in Forfeiture Support Associates J.V.
The non-controlling interest reported on the condensed and consolidated balance sheets represents the portion of FSA's equity that is attributable to the non-controlling interest.
The Company’s operating cycle may be greater than one year and is measured by the average time intervening between the inception and the completion of contracts.
Derivative instruments are recorded on the condensed and consolidated balance sheets at fair value.
The Company’s fixed interest rate swaps are considered over-the-counter derivatives, and fair value is calculated using a standard pricing model for interest rate swaps with contractual terms for maturities, amortization and interest rates.
Level 2, or market observable inputs (such as yield and credit curves), are used within the standard pricing models in order to determine fair value.
The fair value is an estimate of the amount that the Company would pay or receive as of a measurement date if the agreements were transferred to a third party or canceled.
See Note 8 for further discussion on the Company’s derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges.
Inventory is substantially comprised of finished goods inventory purchased for resale to customers, such as tires and lubricants, and is valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value, generally using the average method.
Investments in marketable securities consist of equity securities which are recorded at fair value using observable inputs such as quoted prices in active markets (Level 1).
Under the new guidance, a lessee will be required to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities for all leases with lease terms in excess of twelve months.
The recognition, measurement and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee primarily will depend on its classification as either a finance lease or operating lease.
The criteria for distinction between a finance lease and an operating lease are substantially similar to existing lease guidance for capital leases and operating leases.
Some changes to lessor accounting have been made to conform and align that guidance with the lessee guidance and other areas within GAAP, such as Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).
ASU 2016-02 became effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal 2020.
Accordingly, the prior periods were not recast, and all prior period amounts disclosed are presented under ASC 840.
The Company elected certain practical expedients provided under the standard, including the package of practical expedients, which allows entities not to reassess whether existing contracts are or contain leases.
As a result of the adoption of the new standard, on February 2, 2019, the Company recognized approximately $169 million of right of use operating assets and $187 million of operating lease liabilities, of which $140 million was noncurrent.
2018-15, Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That Is a Service Contract, which aligns the capitalization requirements for implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the existing capitalization requirements for implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software (Subtopic 350-40).
ASU 2018-15 becomes effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 and may be adopted either retrospectively or prospectively.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this standard on its financial statements.
Other Accounting Standards Updates effective after May 3, 2019 are not expected to have a material effect on the Company’s financial statements.
Basic earnings per share (EPS) is computed by dividing net income attributable to common stockholders by the basic weighted-average number of shares outstanding.
Diluted EPS is computed similarly to basic EPS, except the weighted-average number of shares outstanding is increased to include the dilutive effect of outstanding stock options and other stock-based awards.
On June 5, 2019, the Company's Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.37 per share of the Company's common stock payable on July 26, 2019 to stockholders of record on July 12, 2019.
Aggregate changes in these estimates increased operating income by $8 million ($0.11 per diluted share) for the three months ended May 3, 2019, and decreased operating income by $5 million ($0.09 per diluted share) for the three months ended May 4, 2018.
Changes in these estimates increased net income by $6 million for the three months ended May 3, 2019.
In addition, revenues were $9 million higher for the three months ended May 3, 2019, due to net revenue recognized from performance obligations satisfied in prior periods.
The Company disaggregates revenues by customer, contract-type and prime vs. subcontractor to the federal government.
During the three months ended May 3, 2019 and May 4, 2018, the Company recognized revenues of $13 million and $9 million relating to amounts that were included in the opening balance of contract liabilities as of February 1, 2019 and February 3, 2018, respectively.
Pre-contract costs of $1 million were expensed during the three months ended May 3, 2019.
Fulfillment costs of $1 million were amortized during the three months ended May 3, 2019.
As of May 3, 2019, the Company had $4.1 billion of remaining performance obligations.
Remaining performance obligations exclude any variable consideration that is allocated entirely to unsatisfied performance obligations on our supply chain contracts.
On January 14, 2019, the Company completed the acquisition of Engility Holdings, Inc., a leading provider of integrated solutions and services supporting U.S. government customers in the defense, federal civilian, and intelligence and space communities.
particularly in the intelligence and space communities, and enhances the Company's portfolio of capabilities, particularly in the area of systems engineering and integration.
The acquisition enables acceleration of revenue growth through increased market and customer access, increased investment capacity, addition of cleared personnel and strategic alignment with key customers.
The acquisition also enables increased profitability and cash generation with an improved margin profile and greater financial flexibility for investment and capital deployment.
The acquisition was funded through a combination of SAIC common stock and additional borrowings.
The Company amended its credit agreement to provide for a new five-year senior secured $1.1 billion term loan facility.
SAIC borrowed the entire amount of the term loan facility, the proceeds of which were immediately used to repay Engility's existing credit facility and outstanding notes and to pay fees and expenses associated with the acquisition, with the balance retained by SAIC to be used for general corporate purposes.
Represents the fair value of the converted vesting stock awards assumed attributable to pre-acquisition service.
Goodwill represents intellectual capital and an acquired assembled work force.
The Company inherited Engility's historical tax basis in deductible goodwill, certain other intangible assets, and net operating loss carryforwards.
The Company incurred $128 million in costs associated with the acquisition and integration of Engility.
The Company did not incur any acquisition and integration costs for the three months ended May 4, 2018.
During the three months ended May 3, 2019, the Company granted certain employees 0.1 million stock options with a weighted-average exercise price and weighted-average grant date fair value of $74.97 and $16.71, respectively.
During the three months ended May 3, 2019, the Company granted certain employees 0.4 million RSUs with a weighted-average grant date fair value of $74.97, which will vest ratably on each anniversary of the grant date over a three-year period.
The Company's effective income tax rate was 19.8% for the three months ended May 3, 2019 and 10.3% for the three months ended May 4, 2018.
The Company's effective tax rate was higher for the three months ended May 3, 2019 compared to the prior year period due principally to lower excess tax benefits related to employee share-based compensation.
As of May 3, 2019, the Company has a $2.4 billion credit facility (the Credit Facility) consisting of a $400 million secured Revolving Credit Facility due October 2023, a $918 million secured Term Loan A Facility, and a $1,044 million secured Term Loan B Facility (together, the Term Loan Facilities).
There is no balance outstanding on the Revolving Credit Facility as of May 3, 2019.
During the three months ended May 3, 2019, the Company made $150 million of voluntary principal prepayments on the Term Loan A Facility.
As of May 3, 2019, the Company was in compliance with the covenants under its Credit Facility.
As of May 3, 2019 and February 1, 2019, the carrying value of the Company’s outstanding debt obligations approximated its fair value.
The fair value of long-term debt is calculated using Level 2 inputs, based on interest rates available for debt with terms and maturities similar to the Company’s term loan facilities.
The Company is party to fixed interest rate swap instruments that are designated and accounted for as cash flow hedges to manage risks associated with interest rate fluctuations on a portion of the Company’s floating rate debt.
On October 31, 2018, the Company exited one of its interest rate swaps and discontinued hedge accounting.
The $6 million of deferred gains in accumulated other comprehensive loss will be reclassified into interest expense over the original contractual term of the interest rate swaps, which has a maturity date of May 7, 2020.
The following table presents the changes in accumulated other comprehensive loss attributable to the Company’s fixed interest rate swap cash flow hedges that are discussed in Note 8.
The amount reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss is included in interest expense.
The Company occupies most of its facilities under operating leases.
Certain equipment also is leased under short-term or cancelable operating leases.
Effective upon the adoption of ASU 2016-02, the Company recognizes a right of use (ROU) asset and a lease liability upon the commencement of its operating leases.
The initial lease liability is equal to the future fixed minimum lease payments discounted using the Company’s incremental borrowing rate, on a secured basis.
The lease term includes option renewal periods and early termination payments when it is reasonably certain that the Company will exercise those rights.
The initial measurement of the ROU asset is equal to the initial lease liability plus any initial direct costs and prepayments, less any lease incentives.
The Company recognizes lease costs on a straight-line basis over the remaining lease term, except for variable lease payments that are expensed in the period in which the obligation for those payments is incurred.
For its facility leases, the Company combines and accounts for lease and non-lease components together as a single component.
The Company does not recognize lease liabilities and ROU assets for facility leases with original terms of 12 months or less.
ROU assets are evaluated for impairment as a long-lived asset.
As of May 3, 2019, the Company has rental commitments of $24 million for facility leases that have not yet commenced.
These operating leases are expected to commence in fiscal 2020 and have a weighted average lease term of approximately 10 years.
On August 27, 2018, the Company received a stop-work order from the United States Marine Corps on the Assault Amphibious Vehicle (AAV) contract and on October 3, 2018 the program was terminated for convenience by the customer.
Beginning in fiscal 2018, the Company entered into contracts with various vendors for long-lead time materials that would be necessary to complete the low-rate initial production (LRIP) phase of the program, including portions of the LRIP phase which had not yet been awarded.
As a result of the program termination, the Company recognized an inventory provision for long-lead items.
The Company is continuing to negotiate with the Marine Corps to recover all costs associated with the termination.
The Company commenced its operations on September 27, 2013 (the Distribution Date) following completion of a tax-free spin-off transaction from its former parent company, Leidos Holdings, Inc. (formerly SAIC, Inc., collectively with its consolidated subsidiaries, “former Parent”).
In the spin-off transaction, former Parent’s technical, engineering and enterprise IT services business was separated (the separation) into an independent, publicly traded company named Science Applications International Corporation (formerly SAIC Gemini, Inc.).
Former Parent and the Company executed various agreements to provide mechanisms for an orderly transition and to govern certain ongoing relationships between the companies following the separation.
The MTCA also governs the relationship between former Parent and the Company with regard to the treatment of contracts, proposals, and teaming arrangements where both companies are or will be jointly performing work after separation.
Contingent losses that were unknown at the time of separation and arise from the operation of the Company’s historical business or the former Parent’s historical corporate losses will be shared between the parties to the extent that losses in any such category exceed $50 million in the aggregate.
U.S. government agencies, including the DCAA, the Defense Contract Management Agency and others, routinely audit and review a contractor’s performance on government contracts, indirect rates and pricing practices, and compliance with applicable contracting and procurement laws, regulations and standards.
Adverse findings in these investigations, audits, or reviews can lead to criminal, civil or administrative proceedings, and the Company could face disallowance of previously billed costs, penalties, fines, compensatory damages and suspension or debarment from doing business with governmental agencies.
The indirect cost audits by the DCAA of the Company’s business remain open for fiscal 2011 and subsequent years.
Any additional amounts which may be determined to be owed for periods prior to the separation will be allocated to former Parent and the Company in proportions determined in accordance with the Distribution Agreement.
The Company has outstanding obligations relating to letters of credit of $11 million as of May 3, 2019, principally related to guarantees on insurance policies.
The Company also has outstanding obligations relating to surety bonds in the amount of $18 million, principally related to performance and payment bonds on the Company’s contracts.
In addition to the described legal proceedings, we are routinely subject to investigations and reviews relating to compliance with various laws and regulations.
Item 1A.
