fls.txt
Actual events in the future could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking information.


item1.txt
The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Scientific Industries, Inc., Altamira Instruments, Inc. (“Altamira”), a Delaware corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary, and Scientific Bioprocessing, Inc. (“SBI”), a Delaware corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary, and Scientific Packaging Industries, Inc., an inactive wholly-owned subsidiary (all collectively referred to as the “Company”).
All material intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-15, “Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments”.
This update provides guidance on how to record eight specific cash flow issues.
This update is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
In November 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-18, “Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230)”, requiring that the statement of cash flows explain the change in the total cash, cash equivalents, and amounts generally described as restricted cash or restricted cash equivalents.
Trade accounts receivable, current of $67,100 and $278,200, and trade accounts receivable, long term of $245,400 for both periods were reclassified to contract assets, current; and contract assets, less current portion, respectively, on the balance sheet as of September 30, and June 30, 2018.
In addition the Company’s Bioprocessing Systems Operations’ revenues are comprised of royalty revenues.
All revenue is recognized when the Company satisfies its performance obligation(s) under the contract (either implicit or explicit) by transferring the promised product or service to its customer either when (or as) its customer obtains control of the product or service.
A contract’s transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation.
Revenue is measured as the amount of consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for transferring products or providing services.
As such, revenue is recorded net of returns, allowances, customer discounts, and incentives.
Fair value measurements do not include transaction costs.
Level 1 - Inputs that are based upon unadjusted quoted prices for identical instruments traded in active markets.
The Company calculated the fair value of its Level 1 and 2 instruments based on the exchange traded price of similar or identical instruments where available or based on other observable instruments.
The fair value of the contingent consideration obligations are based on a probability weighted approach derived from the estimates of earn-out criteria and the probability assessment with respect to the likelihood of achieving those criteria.
The measurement is based on significant inputs that are not observable in the market, therefore, the Company classifies this liability as Level 3 in the following tables.
Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net assets acquired in connection with the Company’s acquisitions.
Item 2.
Forward-Looking statements.
Consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed.
Overview.
The Company reflected income before tax expense of $177,500 for the three months ended September 30, 2018 compared to a loss before income tax benefit of $306,500 for the three months ended September 30, 2017, primarily the result of increased revenues across all business segments.
The results reflected total non-cash amounts for depreciation and amortization of $75,900 and $77,100 for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The benchtop laboratory equipment sales reflected $425,300 of Torbal brand product sales for the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to $304,200 in the three months ended September 30, 2017 as a result of continued growth in sales of the new force gauges product line.


