fls.txt
 Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain, such as statements about expected earnings, revenues, growth, liquidity or other financial matters.


item1.txt
In the opinion of management, all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America have been included.
 Prior to adoption, the Company evaluated Topic 842, including the initial review of any necessary changes to existing processes and systems that would be required to implement this standard, in order to determine its impact on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
In 2018, the Company implemented a new lease management system that facilitated the adoption of this standard and enabled the Company to fulfill its requirements for both reporting and disclosure purposes, as well as to better manage and monitor the Company’s ongoing lease portfolio.
The Company ensured all key system functionality and other requirements were met, and we completed our assessment of the standard and implemented the necessary changes to our existing policies, processes and controls to achieve appropriate compliance with regards to our lease portfolio.
 On January 1, 2019, we adopted Topic 842 using the updated modified retrospective transition approach allowed under ASU 2018-11 and did not restate prior periods.
The adoption of Topic 842 provided various optional practical expedients in transition, some of which we have elected.
The accounting for finance leases (formerly referred to as “capital leases”) remains substantially unchanged.
Refer to Note 15 herein for further details regarding the impact of the adoption of Topic 842 and other information related to our lease portfolio.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, less than 5% of our net sales are recognized over time, as the associated contracts relate to the sale of goods with no alternative use as they are only sold to a single customer and whose underlying contract terms provide the Company with an enforceable right to payment, including a reasonable profit margin, for performance completed to date, in the event of customer termination.
It is generally expected that a substantial portion of our remaining performance obligations will be fulfilled within three months, and nearly all of our performance obligations are part of contracts that have original durations of one year or less.
and markets a broad range of connector and connector systems, value-add products and other products, including antennas and sensors, used in a broad range of applications in a diverse set of end markets.
In addition, the equity attributable to noncontrolling interests is presented as a separate caption within equity.
 On January 24, 2017, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program under which the Company could purchase up to $1,000.0 of the Company’s Common Stock during the two-year period ending January 24, 2019 (the “2017 Stock Repurchase Program”) in accordance with the requirements of Rule 10b-18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, the Company repurchased 4.2 million shares of its Common Stock for $382.0 under the 2017 Stock Repurchase Program, bringing total repurchases under this program to approximately 12.6 million shares or $1,000.0, thus completing the 2017 Stock Repurchase Program.
 On April 24, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized a new stock repurchase program under which the Company may purchase up to $2,000.0 of the Company’s Common Stock during the three-year period ending April 24, 2021 in accordance with the requirements of Rule 10b-18 of the Exchange Act (the “2018 Stock Repurchase Program”).
The Company has not repurchased any additional shares of its Common Stock through April 23, 2019, and has remaining authorization to purchase up to approximately $1,286.7 of its Common Stock under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program.
 The Company has been named as a defendant in several legal actions arising from normal business activities.
 In August 2018, the Company received a subpoena from the U.S. Department of Defense, Office of the Inspector General, requesting documents pertaining to certain products manufactured by the Company’s Military and Aerospace Group that are purchased or used by the U.S. government.
 Certain operations of the Company are subject to environmental laws and regulations which govern the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, as well as the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes.
 Stock-based compensation expense includes the estimated effects of forfeitures, which are adjusted over the requisite service period to the extent actual forfeitures differ or are expected to differ from such estimates.
 In May 2017, the Company adopted the 2017 Stock Purchase and Option Plan for Key Employees of Amphenol and Subsidiaries (the “2017 Employee Option Plan”).
A committee of the Company’s Board of Directors has been authorized to grant stock options pursuant to the 2017 Employee Option Plan.
As of March 31, 2019, there were 16,982,040 shares of Common Stock available for the granting of additional stock options under the 2017 Employee Option Plan.
The Company also continues to maintain the 2009 Stock Purchase and Option Plan for Key Employees of Amphenol and Subsidiaries, as amended (the “2009 Employee Option Plan”).
The 2004 Directors Option Plan expired in May 2014, except that its terms continue with respect to any outstanding options granted thereunder.
Options granted under the 2004 Directors Option Plan are fully vested and are generally exercisable over a period of ten years from the date of grant.


item2.txt



item3.txt
The Company may borrow under its Revolving Credit Facility and Commercial Paper Programs.


item4.txt
Based on their evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this report.


