In the opinion of management, all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America have been included.
Topic 606 supersedes previous revenue recognition guidance and requires entities to recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for such goods or services.
For these such contracts, we now recognize revenue over time as control of the goods transfers, rather than when the goods are delivered, and title, risk and reward of ownership are passed to the customer, as under previous guidance.
 The adoption of Topic 606 did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements as of the adoption date and as of and for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
For leases with a term of twelve months or less, ASU 2016‑02 permits an entity to make an accounting policy election to recognize such leases as lease expense, generally on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Entities are required to adopt ASU 2016-02 using a modified retrospective approach, which requires prior periods to be presented under this new standard with various practical expedients allowed.
The Company has begun evaluating ASU 2016‑02, including the review of the necessary changes to our existing processes and controls and the implementation of a new system that will facilitate the adoption of this new standard, in order to determine its impact on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
The stranded tax effects result from the remeasurement of net deferred tax positions that were originally recorded in comprehensive income but whose remeasurement was reflected in the income statement in 2017.
ASU 2018-02 only applies to the effects of the Tax Act and is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted.
The following is a summary of the Company’s revenue recognition and related accounting policies and disclosures resulting from the adoption of Topic 606.
Although products are almost always sold at fixed prices, in determining the transaction price, we evaluate whether the price is subject to refund (due to returns) or adjustment (due to volume discounts, rebates, or price concessions) to determine the net consideration we expect to be entitled to.
Based on the respective contract terms, most of our contracts’ revenues are recognized either (i) upon shipment based on free on board (“FOB”) shipping point, (ii) when the product arrives at its destination or (iii) when the products are pulled from consignment inventory.
Less than 5% of our net sales are recognized over time, as the associated contracts relate to the sale of goods with no alternative use as they are only sold to a single customer and whose underlying contract terms provide the Company with an enforceable right to payment, including a reasonable profit margin, for performance completed to date, in the event of customer termination.
For the contracts recognized over time, we typically record revenue using the input method, based on the materials and labor costs incurred to date relative to the contract’s total estimated costs.
This method reasonably depicts when and as control of the goods transfers to the customer, since it measures our progress in producing the goods which is generally commensurate with this transfer of control.
The Company maintains a reserve for unprocessed and estimated future price adjustment claims and returns as a refund liability.
Similarly, sales returns and allowances are recorded based on historical return rates, as a reduction to revenue with a corresponding reduction to cost of sales for the estimated cost of inventory that is expected to be returned.