fls.txt
 Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain, such as statements about expected earnings, revenues, growth, liquidity or other financial matters.


item1.txt
 The condensed consolidated balance sheets as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the related condensed consolidated statements of income and condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive income for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, and the related condensed consolidated statements of cash flow for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 include the accounts of Amphenol Corporation and its subsidiaries (“Amphenol”, the “Company”, “we”, “our”, or “us”).
In the opinion of management, all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America have been included.
These condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017 (the “2017 Annual Report”).
Topic 606 supersedes previous revenue recognition guidance and requires entities to recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for such goods or services.
For these contracts, we now recognize revenue over time as control of the goods transfers, rather than when the goods are delivered, and title, risk and reward of ownership are passed to the customer, as under previous guidance.
 The adoption of Topic 606 did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements as of the adoption date and as of and for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018.
While the Company continues to evaluate the impact that ASU 2016-02 will have on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures, the actual impact of the standard will be dependent upon the Company’s lease portfolio at adoption.
The Company will adopt ASU 2016-02 in the first quarter of 2019 using the modified retrospective transition approach allowed under ASU 2018-11, and will recognize the cumulative effect of applying the new standard as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings as of January 1, 2019.
 The Securities and Exchange Commission has also recently issued several final rules, including but not limited to SEC Final Rule Release No.
33-10532 Disclosure Update and Simplification (“Final Rule”), which amends certain redundant, duplicative, outdated, superseded or overlapping disclosure requirements.
This Final Rule is intended to facilitate disclosure information provided to investors and simplify compliance without significantly impacting the mix of information provided to investors.
 Prior to the adoption of Topic 606, the Company’s revenue recognition policy was in accordance with ASC Topic 605, Revenue Recognition.
Effective January 1, 2018, the Company adopted Topic 606 using the modified retrospective transition method, resulting in accounting policy changes surrounding revenue recognition which replaced certain related policies discussed under Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates (in Item 7) and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (in Note 1) of the Company’s 2017 Annual Report.
Although products are almost always sold at fixed prices, in determining the transaction price, we evaluate whether the price is subject to refund (due to returns) or adjustment (due to volume discounts, rebates, or price concessions) to determine the net consideration we expect to be entitled to.
We allocate the transaction price to each distinct product based on its relative standalone selling price.
Based on the respective contract terms, most of our contracts’ revenues are recognized either (i) upon shipment based on free on board (“FOB”) shipping point, (ii) when the product arrives at its destination or (iii) when the product is pulled from consignment inventory.
This method reasonably depicts when and as control of the goods transfers to the customer, since it measures our progress in producing the goods, which is generally commensurate with this transfer of control.
The Company maintains a reserve for unprocessed and estimated future price adjustment claims and returns as a refund liability.
reserve is recorded as a reduction to revenue in the same period that the related revenue is recorded and is calculated based on an analysis of historical claims and returns over a period of time to appropriately account for current pricing and business trends.
These reserves were not significant upon the adoption of Topic 606 nor were they significant in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2018.
 Standard product warranty coverage which provides assurance that our products will conform to the contractually agreed-upon specifications for a limited period from the date of shipment is typically offered, while extended or separately-priced warranty coverage is typically not offered.
The warranty claim is generally limited to a credit equal to the purchase price or a promise to repair or replace the product for a specified period of time at no additional charge.
Contract assets represent unbilled receivables, which generally arise when revenue recognized over time exceed amounts billed to customers.
As the Company’s performance obligations are typically less than one year, these amounts are generally recorded as current in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets within Other current assets or Other accrued expenses as of September 30, 2018.
Contract assets and contract liabilities recorded in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets were not significant both at the date of adoption and as of September 30, 2018.
Capitalized contract costs to obtain a contract or to fulfill a contract that are not accounted for under other existing accounting standards are recorded as either other current or long-term assets on the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, depending on the timing of when the Company expects to recognize the expense, and are generally amortized consistent with the timing of when transfer of control of the related goods occurs.


item2.txt



item3.txt
including in the event of a significant and sudden decline in the value of any of the foreign currencies for which such borrowings are made.


item4.txt
 The Company’s management, with the participation of the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures, pursuant to Rules 13a-15(e) or 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), as of the end of the period covered by this report.


