These condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018 (the “2018 Annual Report”).
Prior to adoption, the Company evaluated Topic 842, including the initial review of any necessary changes to existing processes and systems that would be required to implement this standard, in order to determine its impact on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
In 2018, the Company implemented a new lease management system that facilitated the adoption of this standard and enabled the Company to fulfill its requirements for both reporting and disclosure purposes, as well as to better manage and monitor the Company’s ongoing lease portfolio.
The Company ensured all key system functionality and other requirements were met, and we completed our assessment of the standard and implemented the necessary changes to our existing policies, processes and controls to achieve appropriate compliance with regards to our lease portfolio.
On January 1, 2019, we adopted Topic 842 using the updated modified retrospective transition approach allowed under ASU 2018-11 and did not restate prior periods.
The adoption of Topic 842 provided various optional practical expedients in transition, some of which we have elected.
Going forward, the impact of Topic 842 on the Company’s consolidated financial statements will be dependent upon the Company’s lease portfolio.
The accounting for finance leases (formerly referred to as “capital leases”) remains substantially unchanged.
Refer to Note 15 herein for further details regarding the impact of the adoption of Topic 842 and other information related to our lease portfolio.
It is generally expected that a substantial portion of our remaining performance obligations will be fulfilled within three months, and nearly all of our performance obligations are part of contracts that have original durations of one year or less.
and markets a broad range of connector and connector systems, value-add products and other products, including antennas and sensors, used in a broad range of applications in a diverse set of end markets.
The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those for the Company as a whole and are described herein and in Note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in the Company’s 2018 Annual Report.
Earnings per share is determined after the impact of the noncontrolling interests’ share in net income of the Company.
In addition, the equity attributable to noncontrolling interests is presented as a separate caption within equity.
On April 24, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program under which the Company may purchase up to $2,000.0 of the Company’s Common Stock during the three-year period ending April 24, 2021 (the “2018 Stock Repurchase Program”) in accordance with the requirements of Rule 10b-18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
During the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, the Company repurchased 2.6 million and 4.4 million shares of its Common Stock for $248.7 and $408.7, respectively, under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program.
Of the total repurchases during the first six months of 2019, 1.0 million shares, or $87.6, have been retained in Treasury stock; the remaining 3.4 million shares, or $321.1, have been retired by the Company.