fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying financial information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained in Teradyne’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on March 1, 2018, for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Teradyne adopted Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” (“ASC 606”) on January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method for all contracts not completed as of the date of adoption.
Teradyne determines performance obligations by assessing whether the products or services are distinct from the other elements of the contract.
Teradyne considers the amount stated on the face of the purchase order to be the transaction price.
In order to determine the appropriate timing for revenue recognition, Teradyne first determines if the transaction meets any of three criteria for over time recognition.
If the transaction meets the criteria for over time recognition, Teradyne recognizes revenue as the good or service is delivered.
For transactions that do not meet the criteria for over time recognition, Teradyne will recognize revenue at a point in time based on an assessment of the five criteria for transfer of control.
For the three and six months ended July 1, 2018, Teradyne also recognized $3.6 million and $7.9 million, respectively, in revenue on leases of Teradyne systems, which are accounted for outside of ASC 606.
Customers have the option to purchase an extended warranty, which extends the warranty period for systems and robots beyond the one-year standard warranty.
The extended warranty is purchased in the same transaction as the system or robot purchase and is classified as a separate performance obligation, which meets the criteria for over time recognition.
The relative standalone selling price of the extended warranty is recognized ratably over the course of the extended warranty based on months completed.
Training and applications support included in system orders are valued based on their standalone selling price and all training and applications support is recognized over time as the customer receives and consumes the benefit associated with each.
The amount of revenue recognized during the three and six months ended July 1, 2018 that was included within the deferred revenue and customer advances balance at January 1, 2018 was $24.7 million and $46.5 million, respectively, and primarily relates to extended warranties, training, application support, and PCS.
Customers typically pay for these services net 30 to 60 days from the date that transfer of control of the associated system or product occurs.
Teradyne has adopted the practical expedient, which states an entity need not adjust the promised amount of consideration for the effects of a significant financing component if the entity expects, at contract inception, that the period between when the entity transfers a promised good or service to the customer and when the customer pays for that good or service will be one year or less.
Differences are the result of timing differences between the recognition of revenue under ASC 606 and ASC 605 primarily with respect to software transactions deferred due to lack of vendor specific objective evidence of price under ASC 605 and Teradyne’s assessment of acceptance under ASC 606.
The adoption of this new accounting guidance increased the January 1, 2018 retained earnings balance by $3.1 million and decreased the accumulated other comprehensive income balance by the same amount.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842).” The guidance in this ASU supersedes the lease recognition requirements in Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 840, “Leases.” The new standard establishes a right- of-use (“ROU”) model that requires a lessee to record an ROU asset and a lease liability on the balance sheet for all leases with terms longer than twelve months.


item2.txt
Statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q which are not historical facts, so called “forward-looking statements,” are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
The total purchase price for MiR was approximately $197 million, which included cash paid of approximately $146 million and $51 million in fair value of contingent consideration payable upon achievement of revenue and earnings targets through 2020.
The amount of revenue recognized reflects the consideration to which we expect to be entitled to receive in exchange for fulfillment of the performance obligation.
Our primary source of revenue will continue to be from the sale of systems, instruments, robots, and the delivery of services.
For transactions that do not meet the criteria for over time recognition, we will recognize revenue at a point in time based on an assessment of the five criteria for transfer of control.
This guidance requires the service cost component of net benefit costs to be reported in the same line item in the consolidated statement of operations as other employee compensation costs.
The retrospective adoption of this standard decreased the three and six months ended July 2, 2017 income from operations by $2.1 million and $1.7 million, respectively, due to the removal of net actuarial pension gains and increased non-operating (income) expense by the same amount with no impact to net income.
The increase in System Test revenues of $33.0 million, or 89.9%, was primarily due to higher sales in Storage Test of 3.5” hard disk drive and system level testers.
The increase in Industrial Automation revenues of $22.8 million, or 58.0%, was due to higher demand for collaborative robotic arms and the acquisition of MiR, completed in April of 2018.
The increase in Wireless Test revenues of $7.5 million, or 27.1%, was primarily due to higher demand for connectivity test systems.


item3.txt
The table below provides a sensitivity analysis of hypothetical 10% changes of Teradyne’s stock price as of the end of the second quarter of 2018 and the estimated impact on the fair value of the Notes.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The implementation of tariffs and export controls on our products may have a material impact on our business.


