The accompanying financial information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained in Teradyne’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on March 1, 2019, for the year ended December 31, 2018.
Under this method of adoption, the comparative information in the consolidated financial statements has not been revised and continues to be reported under the previously applicable lease accounting guidance (ASC 840).
Teradyne also utilized the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance which included the carry-forward of historical lease classification.
Adoption of ASC 842 resulted in recording ROU assets and lease liabilities of approximately $50.1 million and $54.3 million, respectively.
The adoption of ASC 842 did not have a material impact on beginning retained earnings, the consolidated statement of operations, cash flows, or earnings per share.
Under ASC 842, a contract is or contains a lease when Teradyne has the right to control the use of an identified asset.
Teradyne determines if an arrangement is a lease at inception of the contract, which is the date on which the terms of the contract are agreed to and the agreement creates enforceable rights and obligations.
Teradyne determines if the lease is operating or finance at the lease commencement date based upon the terms of the lease and the nature of the asset.
The lease term used to calculate the lease liability includes options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that the option will be exercised.
On January 30, 2019, Teradyne acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Lemsys SA (“Lemsys”) for a total purchase price of approximately $9.1 million.
As of the acquisition date, Teradyne’s preliminary purchase price allocation was goodwill of $1.2 million, which is not deductible for tax purposes, acquired intangible assets of $5.5 million with an average estimated useful life of 4.9 years, and $2.4 million of net tangible assets.
The contingent consideration is payable in Euros upon the achievement of certain thresholds and targets for revenue and earnings before interest and taxes for periods from January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018; January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2019; and January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2020.
The allocation of the total purchase price to MiR’s net tangible liabilities and identifiable intangible assets was based on their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date.Statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q which are not historical facts, so called “forward-looking statements,” are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Energid’s technology enables and simplifies the programming of complex robotic motions used in a wide variety of end markets, ranging from heavy industry to healthcare, utilizing both traditional robots and collaborative robots.
The total purchase price was approximately $198 million, which included cash paid of approximately $145 million and $53 million in fair value of contingent consideration payable upon achievement of certain thresholds and targets for revenue and earnings before interest and taxes through 2020.
On January 30, 2019, we acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Lemsys SA (“Lemsys”) for a total purchase price of approximately $9.1 million.
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception of the contract, which is the date on which the terms of the contract are agreed to and the agreement creates enforceable rights and obligations.