The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of Marvell Technology Group Ltd., a Bermuda exempted company, and its wholly owned subsidiaries (the “Company”), as of and for the three months ended May 4, 2019, have been prepared as required by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes should be read in conjunction with the Company's fiscal year 2019 audited financial statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 2, 2019.
In the opinion of management, the financial statements include all adjustments, including normal recurring adjustments and other adjustments, that are considered necessary for fair presentation of the Company’s financial position and results of operations.
These financial statements should also be read in conjunction with the Company’s critical accounting policies included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended February 2, 2019 and those included in this Form 10-Q below.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued a new standard on the accounting for leases, which amends the existing guidance to require lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for the rights and obligation created by long-term leases and to disclose additional quantitative and qualitative information about leasing arrangements.
The Company adopted the new lease accounting standard on February 3, 2019, using the modified retrospective approach by applying the new standard to leases existing at the date of initial application and not restating comparative periods.
In June 2016, the FASB issued a new standard requiring financial assets measured at amortized cost be presented at the net amount expected to be collected, through an allowance for credit losses that is deducted from the amortized cost basis.
In August 2018, the FASB issued an accounting standards update to align the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a software hosting arrangement that is a service contract and costs to develop or obtain internal-use software.
In addition, entities may elect to apply the guidance to all collaborative arrangements or only to collaborative arrangements that are not completed as of the date of initial application of the aforementioned revenue recognition standard.
The Company elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance within the new standard, which among other things, allows the Company to carry forward the historical lease classification.This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), which are subject to the “safe harbor” created by those sections.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2020, our net revenue increased year over year by 9.6% from $604.6 million net revenue in the first quarter fiscal 2019 compared with $662.5 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2020.The information under the caption “Contingencies” as set forth in “Note 10 – Commitments and Contingencies” of our Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part I, Item 1, is incorporated herein by reference.
In addition, the trading price of our common shares could decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment.
•customers may consolidate (for example, Western Digital acquired SanDisk in 2017, and Toshiba Corporation sold control of a portion of its semiconductor business in 2018), which could lead to changing demand for our products, replacement of our products by the merged entity with those of our competitors and cancellation of orders.
In addition, if regulatory activity, such as enforcement of U.S. export control and sanctions laws, or the imposition of new tariffs, were to materially limit our ability to make sales to any of our significant customers, it could harm our results of operations, reputation and financial condition.
This export restriction was implemented in the second week of our second quarter of fiscal year 2020, limiting revenue from that customer to shipments during a short period during the quarter.
In addition, there may be indirect impacts to our business which we cannot easily quantify such as the fact that some of our other customer’s products which use our solutions, such as hard disk drives, may also be impacted by this export restriction.
If this export restriction is sustained for a long period of time, or if other export restrictions were to be imposed as a result of current trade tensions such as restrictions on trade with Mexico or other countries, it could have an adverse impact on our revenues and results of operations.