item1.txt
The implementation resulted in a net reduction of prepaid expense and other current assets of $49.7 million, accrued expense and other current liabilities of $5.3 million, and other long-term liabilities of $39.4 million; and an increase in other assets of $5.0 million in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet, and had no impact on cash provided by or used in operations for any period presented.
The amendments provide clarity on the measurement methodology to be used for the required disclosure of fair value of financial instruments measured at amortized cost on the balance sheet and clarifies that an entity should evaluate the need for a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets related to available-for-sale securities in combination with the entity’s other deferred tax assets, among other changes.
The Company is required to adopt these standards starting in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and does not anticipate that implementation will have a material impact on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The estimated fair value of the Company’s stock-based awards, less expected forfeitures, is amortized over the awards’ vesting term on a straight-line basis.
The fair value of the Company’s stock options granted during the nine months ended March 25, 2018 was estimated using a Black-Scholes options valuation model, which requires the input of highly subjective assumptions, including expected stock price volatility and the estimated life of each award.
Based upon the terms of such awards, the number of shares that can be earned over the performance periods is based on the Company’s Common Stock price performance compared to the market price performance of the Philadelphia Semiconductor Sector Index (“SOX”), ranging from 0% to 150% of target.
During the nine months ended March 25, 2018, a total of 412,469 shares of the Company’s Common Stock were sold to employees under the 1999 ESPP.
The Company recorded an income tax (benefit) expense of $(7.1) million and $834.1 million for the three and nine months ended March 25, 2018, which yielded an effective tax rate of approximately (0.9)% and 38.0%, respectively.
Diluted shares outstanding do not include any effect resulting from note hedges associated with the Company’s 2018 Notes as their impact would have been anti-dilutive.
All of the Company’s other investments are classified as available-for-sale and consequently are recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax.
The Company defines fair value as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required or permitted to be recorded at fair value, the Company considers the principal or most advantageous market in which it would transact, and it considers assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.
The Company’s primary financial instruments include its cash, cash equivalents, investments, restricted cash and investments, long-term investments, accounts receivable, accounts payable, long-term debt and capital leases, and foreign currency related derivative instruments.
Refer to Note 11 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the fair value of the Company’s Senior Notes and Convertible Notes.
The Company also considers whether changes in the credit ratings of the issuer could impact the assessment of fair value.
During the three and nine months ended March 25, 2018, the Company recorded a $42.5 million other-than-temporary impairment charge on a portion of its available-for-sale investments as a result of a decision to sell selected investments held in foreign jurisdictions in conjunction with our cash repatriation strategy following the U.S. tax reform legislation.
The Company carries derivative financial instruments (“derivatives”) on its Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at their fair values.
The Company enters into foreign currency forward contracts and foreign currency options with financial institutions with the primary objective of reducing volatility of earnings and cash flows related to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.
In addition, the Company has entered into interest rate swap agreements to hedge against the variability of cash flows due to changes in certain benchmark interest rates on fixed rate debt.
When derivative instruments are designated and qualify as effective cash flow hedges, the Company recognizes effective changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) until the hedged exposure is realized.
Consequently the Company’s results of operations are not subject to fluctuation as a result of changes in the fair value of the derivative instruments.
If hedges are not highly effective or if the Company does not believe that the underlying hedged forecasted transactions will occur, the Company may not be able to account for its derivative instruments as cash flow hedges.
If this were to occur, future changes in the fair values of the Company’s derivative instruments would be recognized in earnings.
As of March 25, 2018, the Company had a net loss of $23.6 million accumulated in other comprehensive income, net of tax, related to foreign exchange cash flow hedges which it expects to reclassify from other comprehensive income into earnings over the next 12 months.
Additionally, as of March 25, 2018, the Company had a net loss of $1.8 million accumulated in other comprehensive income, net of tax, related to interest rate contracts which it expects to reclassify from other comprehensive income into earnings over the next 7.0 years.
The Company has interest rate contracts whereby the Company receives fixed rates and pays variable rates based on certain benchmark interest rates, resulting in a net increase or decrease to interest expense, a component of other expense, net in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations.
The Company concluded that these interest rate contracts meet the criteria necessary to qualify for the short-cut method of hedge accounting, and as such an assumption is made that the change in the fair value of the hedged debt, due to changes in the benchmark rate, exactly offsets the change in the fair value of the interest rate swap.
The Company also enters into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge fluctuations associated with foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, primarily cash, third-party accounts receivable, accounts payable, and intercompany receivables and payables.
Under the master netting agreements with the respective counterparties to the Company’s derivative contracts, subject to applicable requirements, the Company is allowed to net settle transactions of the same currency with a single net amount payable by one party to the other.
Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash and cash equivalents, investments, restricted cash and investments, trade accounts receivable, and derivative financial instruments used in hedging activities.
The Company is exposed to credit losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties on foreign currency and interest rate hedge contracts that are used to mitigate the effect of exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations, and on contracts related to structured share repurchase arrangements.
The Company recognized $40.8 million and $38.6 million in intangible asset amortization expense during the three months ended March 25, 2018, and March 26, 2017, respectively.
During the nine months ended March 25, 2018 and March 26, 2017, the company recognized $120.9 million and $115.9 million, respectively, in intangible asset amortization expense.
Under certain circumstances, the Convertible Notes may be converted into shares of the Company’s Common Stock.
During the quarter ended March 25, 2018, and in the subsequent period through Apri1 24, 2018, the Company received notice of conversion of an additional $5.9 million principal value of 2041 Notes, which will settle in the quarter ending June 24, 2018.
In conjunction with the convertible note hedge, counterparties agreed to sell to the Company shares of Common Stock equal to the number of shares issuable upon conversion of the 2018 Notes in full.
Settlement of the convertible note hedge in net shares, based on the number of shares issued upon conversion of the 2018 Notes, on the expiration date would result in the Company receiving net shares equivalent to the number of shares issuable by the Company upon conversion of the 2018 Notes.
In addition, upon the occurrence of certain events, as described in the indenture, the Company will be required to make an offer to repurchase the 2021 Notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the respective note, plus accrued and unpaid interest.
The Amended Credit Agreement provides for an expansion option that will allow the Company, subject to certain requirements, to request an increase in the facility of up to an additional $600 million, for a potential total commitment of $1.85 billion.
These amounts are recorded with other restricted cash and investments in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of March 25, 2018.
In March 2018, the Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase up to an additional $2.0 billion of Common Stock.
In addition to the shares repurchased under the Board-authorized repurchase program shown above, during the three and nine months ended March 25, 2018, the Company acquired 451 thousand shares at a total cost of $81.2 million and 560 thousand shares at a total cost of $101.4 million, respectively, which the Company withheld through net settlements to cover minimum tax withholding obligations upon the vesting of restricted stock unit awards granted under the Company’s equity compensation plans.
On November 20, 2017, the Company entered into four separate accelerated share repurchase agreements (collectively, the "November 2017 ASR") with two financial institutions to repurchase a total of $1.0 billion of Common Stock.
The total number of shares to be received under the November 2017 ASR will be based upon the average daily volume weighted average price of the Company’s Common Stock during the repurchase period, less an agreed upon discount.
On April 19, 2017, the Company entered into two separate accelerated share repurchase agreements (collectively, the “April 2017 ASR”) with two financial institutions to repurchase a total of $500 million of Common Stock.
The Company expects to continue to obtain information to assist us in determining the fair value of the net assets acquired during the measurement period.
The operating results of the acquired entity, from the date of acquisition, have been included in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the three and nine months ended March 25, 2018.
Future dividends and share repurchases may also be affected by, among other factors, our views on potential future capital requirements for investments in acquisitions and the funding of our research and development; legal risks; changes in federal and state income tax laws or corporate laws; contractual restrictions, such as financial or operating covenants in our debt arrangements; availability of onshore cash flow; and changes to our business model.


item2.txt
In the March 2018 quarter, revenue increased compared to the December 2017 quarter primarily as a result of increased investments from our memory customers.
Gross margin as a percentage of revenue in the March 2018 quarter decreased as compared to the December 2017 quarter primarily due to customer and product mix.
Shipments for the March 2018 quarter increased 19% from the December 2017 quarter and increased 30% from the March 2017 quarter levels, reflecting timing of customer demand for semiconductor equipment.
Revenue for the March 2018 quarter increased 12% and 34% from the December 2017 and March 2017 quarters, respectively, and increased 40% in the nine months ended March 25, 2018 compared to the same period in fiscal 2017, reflecting stronger customer demand for semiconductor equipment.
Our deferred revenue balance at March 25, 2018 remained steady to the balance as of December 24, 2017, at $1.1 billion, as a result of timing of shipments and revenue recognition.
The estimated future revenue value from shipments to customers in Japan was approximately $526 million as of March 25, 2018, and $289 million as of December 24, 2017.
Gross margin as a percentage of revenue decreased in the March 2018 quarter compared to the December 2017 quarter primarily due to changes in customer and product mix.
The increase in gross margin as a percentage of revenue in the March 2018 quarter compared to the March 2017 quarter as well as during the nine months ended March 25, 2018 as compared to the same period in fiscal 2017 is primarily due to favorable customer and product mix, offset by higher factory cost.
Interest income increased in the March 2018 quarter compared to the March 2017 quarter as a result of higher yield and balances.
Interest income increased in the nine months ended March 2018 compared to the nine months ended March 2017 as a result of an increase in yield and higher cash balances.
The loss on impairment of investments in the three and nine months ended March 25, 2018 resulted from a decision to sell selected investments held in foreign jurisdictions in conjunction with our cash repatriation strategy following the U.S. tax reform enacted in December 2017.
The decrease in the effective tax rate for the three months ended March 25, 2018 compared to the three months ended December 24, 2017 was primarily due to the impact of U.S. tax reform mandated one-time transition tax on accumulated unrepatriated foreign earnings in the three months ended December 24, 2017.
The increase in the effective tax rate for the nine months ended March 25, 2018 compared to the nine months ended March 26, 2017 was primarily due to the impact of U.S. tax reform mandated one-time transition tax on accumulated unrepatriated foreign earnings in the nine months ended March 25, 2018.
During the nine months ended March 25, 2018, approximately $574.2 million principle value of Convertible Notes were converted and in the subsequent period through April 24, 2018, we received notice of conversion of an additional $6 million principal value of 2041 Convertible Notes, which will settle in the quarter ending June 24, 2018, and all remaining 2018 Notes mature within the quarter ended June 24, 2018.
This value is identified as provisional in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the period ended December 24, 2017 and March 25, 2018, and is subject to future measurement period adjustments under SAB 118.
The total number of shares received under the April 2017 ASR was based upon the average daily volume weighted average price of our Common Stock during the repurchase period, less an agreed upon discount.


item4.txt
As required by Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(b), as of March 25, 2018, we carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rule 13a-15(e).


part2.txt
During periods of rapid growth or decline in demand for our products and services, we face significant challenges in maintaining adequate financial and business controls, management processes, information systems, and procedures for training and managing our workforce, and in appropriately sizing our supply chain infrastructure and facilities, work force, and other components of our business on a timely basis.
Our ability to meet our expenses and debt obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory, and other factors.
The number of shares of our Common Stock into which the Convertible Notes are convertible and for which related warrants are exercisable for may be adjusted from time to time, including increases in such rates as a result of dividends that we pay to our stockholders.
Upon conversion of any Convertible Notes, we will deliver cash in the amount of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes and, with respect to any excess conversion value greater than the principal amount of the Convertible Notes, shares of our Common Stock, which would result in dilution to our stockholders.
Prior to the maturity of the Convertible Notes, if the price of our Common Stock exceeds the conversion price, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles require that we report an increase in diluted share count, which would result in lower reported earnings per share.
The price of our Common Stock could also be affected by sales of our Common Stock by investors who view the Convertible Notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in our company and also by hedging activity that may develop involving our Common Stock by holders of the Convertible Notes.
In addition, we enter into foreign currency hedge contracts to minimize the short-term impact of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities, primarily third-party accounts receivables, accounts payables, and intercompany receivables and payables.
Additionally, we are exposed to short-term foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on non-U.S. dollar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities (other than those currency exposures previously discussed), and currently we do not enter into foreign currency hedge contracts against these exposures.
Certain uses of cash, such as share repurchases, payment of dividends, or the repayment of our notes, can usually only be made with onshore cash balances.
Our success in hiring depends on a variety of factors, including the attractiveness of our compensation and benefit programs, global economic or political and industry conditions, our organizational structure, global competition for talent and the availability of qualified employees, the availability of career development opportunities, the ability to obtain necessary authorizations for workers to provide services outside their home countries, and our ability to offer a challenging and rewarding work environment.
As part of our strategy to protect our technology, we currently hold a number of U.S. and foreign patents and pending patent applications, and we keep certain information, processes, and techniques as trade secrets.
Additionally, intellectual property litigation can be expensive and time-consuming and even when patents are issued or trade secret processes are followed, the legal systems in certain of the countries in which we do business do not enforce patents and other intellectual property rights as rigorously as the United States.
Our intent to continue to pay quarterly dividends and to repurchase our shares is subject to capital availability and, in the case of dividends, periodic determinations by our Board of Directors that cash dividends are in the best interest of our stockholders and are in compliance with all laws and agreements applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends by us.
Future dividends and share repurchases may also be affected by, among other factors, our views on potential future capital requirements for investments in acquisitions and the funding of our research and development; legal risks; changes in federal and state income tax laws or corporate laws; contractual restrictions, such as financial or operating covenants in our debt arrangements; availability of onshore cash flow; and changes to our business model.
The new authorization increases the share repurchase authorization granted in November 2017 to an aggregate of $4.0 billion of Common Stock, and supplements the remaining balances from any prior authorizations.
On November 20, 2017, we entered into four separate accelerated share repurchase agreements (collectively, the " November 2017 ASR") with two financial institutions to repurchase a total of $1.0 billion of Common Stock.
The total number of shares to be received under the November 2017 ASR will be based upon the average daily volume weighted average price of our Common Stock during the repurchase period, less an agreed upon discount.
On April 19, 2017, we entered into two separate accelerated share repurchase agreements (collectively, the “April 2017 ASR”) with two financial institutions to repurchase a total of $500 million of Common Stock.
The total number of shares received under the April 2017 ASR was based upon the average daily volume weighted average price of our Common Stock during the repurchase period, less an agreed upon discount.


