item1.txt
Upon adoption, the Company recorded a cumulative effect adjustment of $139.4 million, net of tax adjustment of $21.0 million, which increased the June 25, 2018 opening retained earnings balance on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet, primarily as a result of changes in the timing of recognition of system sales.
Except as disclosed above, the adoption of ASC 606 did not have a significant impact on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2019.
The Company’s adoption of this standard in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 did not have a material impact on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Company’s adoption of this standard resulted in a $0.4 million decrease to retained earnings and a corresponding $0.4 million increase to other assets on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Company adopted these amendments in the first quarter of fiscal Year 2019 and as a result the Company has included a Condensed Consolidated Statement of Stockholders’ Equity to this quarterly report on Form 10-Q.
In June 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-13, “Financial Instruments – Credit Losses.” The amendment revises the impairment model to utilize an expected loss methodology in place of the currently used incurred loss methodology, which will result in more timely recognition of losses on financial instruments, including but not limited to, available for sale debt securities and accounts receivable.
The Company recognizes revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services by following a five-step process, (1) identify the contract with a customer, (2) identify the performance obligations in the contract, (3) determine the transaction price, (4) allocate the transaction price, and (5) recognize revenue when or as the Company satisfies a performance obligation, as further described below.
The Lam Research Corporation 2015 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (the “2015 Plan”), provides for the grant of non-qualified equity-based awards of the Company’s Common Stock to eligible employees and non-employee directors, including stock options, restricted stock units (“RSUs”), and market-based performance RSUs (“market-based PRSUs”).
Based upon the terms of such awards, the number of shares that can be earned over the performance periods is based on the Company’s Common Stock price performance compared to the market price performance of the Philadelphia Semiconductor Sector Index (“SOX”), ranging from 0% to 150% of target.
The Company recorded an income tax expense of $38.7 million and $187.5 million for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2019, which yielded an effective tax rate of approximately 6.6% and 10.2%, respectively.
The Company has calculated the impact of the GILTI provision on current year earnings and has included the impact in the effective tax rate.
The final adjustment resulted in a tax expense of $0.4 million, which was recorded in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in the three months ended December 23, 2018.
Diluted shares outstanding do not include any effect resulting from note hedges associated with the Company’s 2018 Notes as their impact would have been anti-dilutive.
All of the Company’s other investments are classified as available-for-sale and consequently are recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax.
The Company defines fair value as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required or permitted to be recorded at fair value, the Company considers the principal or most advantageous market in which it would transact, and it considers assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.
The Company’s primary financial instruments include its cash, cash equivalents, investments, restricted cash and investments, long-term investments, accounts receivable, accounts payable, long-term debt and capital leases, and foreign currency related derivative instruments.
The Company also considers whether changes in the credit ratings of the issuer could impact the assessment of fair value.
The Company carries derivative financial instruments (“derivatives”) on its Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at their fair values.
The Company enters into foreign currency forward contracts and foreign currency options with financial institutions with the primary objective of reducing volatility of earnings and cash flows related to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.
In addition, the Company has entered into interest rate swap agreements to hedge against the variability of cash flows due to changes in certain benchmark interest rates on fixed rate debt.
When derivative instruments are designated and qualify as effective cash flow hedges, the Company recognizes effective changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) until the hedged exposure is realized.
Consequently, the Company’s results of operations are not subject to fluctuation as a result of changes in the fair value of the derivative instruments.
If hedges are not highly effective or if the Company does not believe that the underlying hedged forecasted transactions will occur, the Company may not be able to account for its derivative instruments as cash flow hedges.
If this were to occur, future changes in the fair values of the Company’s derivative instruments would be recognized in earnings.
As of March 31, 2019, the Company had a net loss of $0.4 million accumulated in other comprehensive income, net of tax, related to foreign exchange cash flow hedges which it expects to reclassify from other comprehensive income into earnings over the next 12 months.
Company had a net loss of $2.1 million accumulated in other comprehensive income, net of tax, related to interest rate contracts which it expects to reclassify from other comprehensive income into earnings over the next 6.0 years.
The Company has interest rate contracts whereby the Company receives fixed rates and pays variable rates based on certain benchmark interest rates, resulting in a net increase or decrease to interest expense, a component of other expense, net in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations.
The Company concluded that these interest rate contracts meet the criteria necessary to qualify for the short-cut method of hedge accounting, and as such an assumption is made that the change in the fair value of the hedged debt, due to changes in the benchmark rate, exactly offsets the change in the fair value of the interest rate swap.
The Company also enters into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge fluctuations associated with foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, primarily cash, third-party accounts receivable, accounts payable, and intercompany receivables and payables.
Under the master netting agreements with the respective counterparties to the Company’s derivative contracts, subject to applicable requirements, the Company is allowed to net settle transactions of the same currency with a single net amount payable by one party to the other.
Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash and cash equivalents, investments, restricted cash and investments, trade accounts receivable, and derivative financial instruments used in hedging activities.
The Company is exposed to credit losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties on foreign currency and interest rate hedge contracts that are used to mitigate the effect of exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations, and on contracts related to structured share repurchase arrangements.
The initial debt components of the 2041 Notes were valued based on the present value of the future cash flows using the Company’s borrowing rate at the date of the issuance or assumption for similar debt instruments without the conversion feature, which equals the effective interest rate on the liability component disclosed in the table below, respectively.
The equity component was initially valued equal to the principle value of the notes, less the present value of the future cash flows using the Company’s borrowing rate at the date of the issuance or assumption for similar debt instruments without a conversion feature, which equated to the initial debt discount.
Under certain circumstances, the 2041 Notes may be converted into shares of the Company’s Common Stock.
The 7.6 million warrants were fully exercised during the first half of fiscal year 2019 resulting in the issuance of approximately 4.1 million shares of the Company's Common Stock.
Under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (as amended by the 2nd and 3rd Amendment), the Company has a revolving credit facility of $1.25 billion with a syndicate of lenders with an expansion option that will allow the Company, subject to certain requirements, to request an increase in the facility of up to an additional $600 million, for a potential total commitment of $1.85 billion.
The following table presents the amount of interest cost recognized relating to both the contractual interest coupon and amortization of the debt discount, issuance costs, and effective portion of interest rate contracts with respect to the Senior Notes, convertible notes, the term loan agreement, commercial paper, and the revolving credit facility during the three and nine months ended March 31, 2019 and March 25, 2018.
These amounts are recorded with other restricted cash and investments in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of March 31, 2019.
In addition to the shares repurchased under the Board-authorized repurchase program shown above, during the three and nine months ended March 31, 2019, the Company acquired 423 thousand shares at a total cost of $74.8 million and 447 thousand shares at a total cost of $78.5 million, respectively, which the Company withheld through net settlements to cover minimum tax withholding obligations upon the vesting of restricted stock unit awards granted under the Company’s equity compensation 
On January 31, 2019, the Company entered into two separate accelerated share repurchase agreements (collectively, the "January 2019 ASR") with two financial institutions to repurchase a total of $760 million of Common Stock.
The total number of shares received under the January 2019 ASR will be based upon the average daily volume weighted average price of the Company’s Common Stock during the repurchase period, less an agreed upon discount.
On August 15, 2018, the Company entered into four separate accelerated share repurchase agreements (collectively, the "August 2018 ASR") with two financial institutions to repurchase a total of $1.4 billion of Common Stock.
The total number of shares received under the August 2018 ASR was based upon the average daily volume weighted average price of the Company’s Common Stock during the repurchase period, less an agreed upon discount.
In addition, we enter into foreign currency hedge contracts to minimize the short-term impact of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, primarily third-party accounts receivables, accounts payables, and intercompany receivables and payables.
Future dividends and share repurchases may also be affected by, among other factors, our views on potential future capital requirements for investments in acquisitions and the funding of our research and development; legal risks; changes in federal, state, and international tax laws or corporate laws; contractual restrictions, such as financial or operating covenants in our debt arrangements; availability of onshore cash flow; and changes to our business model.


item2.txt
Gross margin as a percentage of revenue in the March 2019 quarter declined compared to the December 2018 quarter primarily due to lower factory and field utilization and customer and product mix.
The increase in operating expenses in the March 2019 quarter compared to the December 2018 quarter was mainly driven by increases in employee-related costs resulting from seasonal impacts, an extra work week in the quarter, and restructuring charges.
Our cash and cash equivalents, investments, and restricted cash and investments balances increased to $6.4 billion at the end of the March 2019 quarter compared to $3.9 billion at the end of the December 2018 quarter, primarily due to $2.5 billion of debt 
Revenue for the March 2019 quarter decreased 3% from the December 2018 quarter, reflecting lower customer demand for semiconductor equipment.
Revenue for the March 2019 quarter decreased 16% compared to the same prior year period, and decreased 8% in the nine months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018, reflecting lower customer demand for semiconductor equipment.
Gross margin as a percentage of revenue reduced in the March 2019 quarter compared to the December 2018 quarter primarily due to lower factory and field utilization, customer and product mix, and deferred compensation plan-related costs.
The decrease in gross margin as a percentage of revenue in the March 2019 quarter compared to the March 2018 quarter is primarily due to lower factory utilization and changes in customer and product mix.
In the nine months ended March 31, 2019, gross margin as a percentage of revenue decreased compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to lower factory utilization.
Interest income increased in the March 2019 quarter compared to the December 2018 quarter as a result of higher cash balances and higher yield.
Interest income increased in the nine months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018 as a result of higher yield.
Significant changes in the market value of securities in the portfolio drove the gains on assets related to obligations under our deferred compensation plan in the March 2019 quarter compared to the December 2018 and March 2018 quarters.
Other, net resulted in higher income during the March 2019 quarter compared to the December 2018 and March 2018 quarters primarily due to a decrease in charitable contributions and gain from equity investments.
The decrease in the effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three months ended December 23, 2018 was primarily due to the final tax expense adjustment under SAB 118 to the U.S. tax reform mandated one-time transition tax on accumulated unrepatriated foreign earnings in the three months ended December 23, 2018, and stock-based compensation excess tax benefits in the three months ended March 31, 2019.
The increase in the effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three months ended March 25, 2018 was primarily due to the impact of U.S. taxation on low-taxed foreign intangible income applicable beginning in fiscal year 2019.
The decrease in the effective tax rate for the nine months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the nine months ended March 25, 2018 was primarily due to the reduction of the federal statutory tax rate and the impact of U.S. taxation on low-taxed foreign intangible income applicable beginning in fiscal year 2019, and the impact of the U.S. tax reform mandated one-time transition tax expense on accumulated unrepatriated foreign earnings in the nine months ended March 25, 2018.
The remaining two agreements settled during the quarter ended March 31, 2019, resulting in the receipt of approximately 1.8 million additional shares, which yielded a weighted-average share price of approximately $146.00 for the transaction period.


item3.txt
We mitigate default risk by investing in high credit quality securities and by positioning our portfolio to respond appropriately to a significant reduction in a credit rating of any investment issuer or guarantor.


item4.txt
We maintain disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over final reporting that are designed to comply with Rule 13a-15 of the Exchange Act. In designing and evaluating the controls and procedures associated with each, management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives, and that the effectiveness of controls cannot be absolute because the cost to design and implement a control to identify errors or mitigate the risk of errors occurring should not outweigh the potential loss caused by the errors that would likely be detected by the control.


part2.txt
During periods of rapid growth or decline in demand for our products and services, we face significant challenges in maintaining adequate financial and business controls, management processes, information systems, and procedures for training, assimilating, and managing our workforce, and in appropriately sizing our supply chain infrastructure and facilities, work force, and other components of our business on a timely basis.
In addition, we have entered, and in the future may enter, into derivative instrument arrangements to hedge against the variability of cash flows due to changes in the benchmark interest rate of fixed rate debt.
The number of shares of our Common Stock into which the Convertible Notes are convertible may be adjusted from time to time, including increases in such rates as a result of dividends that we pay to our stockholders.
Upon conversion of any Convertible Notes, we will deliver cash in the amount of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes and, with respect to any excess conversion value greater than the principal amount of the Convertible Notes, shares of our Common Stock, which would result in dilution to our stockholders.
Prior to the maturity of the Convertible Notes, if the price of our Common Stock exceeds the conversion price, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles require that we report an increase in diluted share count, which would result in lower reported earnings per share.
In addition, we enter into foreign currency hedge contracts to minimize the short-term impact of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, primarily third-party accounts receivables, accounts payables, and intercompany receivables and payables.
Additionally, we are exposed to short-term foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on non-U.S. dollar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities (other than those currency exposures previously discussed), and currently we do not enter into foreign currency hedge contracts against these exposures.
Certain uses of cash, such as share repurchases, payment of dividends, or the repayment of our notes, can usually only be made with onshore cash balances.
Our intent to continue to pay quarterly dividends and to repurchase our shares is subject to capital availability and periodic determinations by our Board of Directors that cash dividends and share repurchases are in the best interest of our stockholders and are in compliance with all laws and agreements applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends by us.
Future dividends and share repurchases may also be affected by, among other factors, our views on potential future capital requirements for investments in acquisitions and the funding of our research and development; legal risks; changes in federal, state, and international tax laws or corporate laws; contractual restrictions, such as financial or operating covenants in our debt arrangements; availability of onshore cash flow; and changes to our business model.
A reduction or suspension in our dividend payments or share repurchases could have a negative effect on the price of our Common Stock.
In November 2018, the Board of Directors authorized management to repurchase up to an additional $5.0 billion of Common Stock on such terms and conditions as it deems appropriate.
On January 31, 2019, we entered into two separate accelerated share repurchase agreements (collectively, the "January 2019 ASR") with two financial institutions to repurchase a total of $760 million of Common Stock.
The total number of shares received under the January 2019 ASR will be based upon the average daily volume weighted average price of our Common Stock during the repurchase period, less an agreed upon discount.
On August 15, 2018, we entered into four separate accelerated share repurchase agreements (collectively, the "August 2018 ASR") with two financial institutions to repurchase a total of $1.4 billion of Common Stock.
The total number of shares received under the August 2018 ASR was based upon the average daily volume weighted average price of our Common Stock during the repurchase period, less an agreed upon discount.
Approximately 1.7 million shares were received at final settlement, which resulted in a weighted-average share price of approximately $148.72 for the transaction period.
The remaining two agreements settled during the quarter ended March 31, 2019, resulting in the receipt of approximately 1.8 million additional shares, which yielded a weighted-average share price of approximately $146.00 for the transaction period.


