item1.txt
The Company also recognized an adjustment of $3.0 million to retained earnings, net of tax; a reduction of $40.4 million to property and equipment, net; and a reduction of $43.8 million to finance leases ($42.3 million of which was previously recognized in long-term debt and finance lease obligations, less current portion and the remaining was previously recognized in current portion of long-term debt and finance lease obligations) related to its de-recognition of its previously recorded build-to-suit arrangements.
The adoption of the standard did not materially impact the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations and had no impact on cash flows.
The amendments of ASU 2017-12 were effective in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020, and did not have a material impact on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Company recorded an income tax expense of $58.9 million for the three months ended September 29, 2019, which yielded an effective tax rate of approximately 11.2%.
Refer to Note 12 - Long-term Debt and Other Borrowings for additional information regarding the Company’s convertible notes.
All of the Company’s other investments are classified as available-for-sale and consequently are recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax.
The Company defines fair value as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required or permitted to be recorded at fair value, the Company considers the principal or most advantageous market in which it would transact, and it considers assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.
The Company’s primary financial instruments include its cash, cash equivalents, investments, restricted cash and investments, long-term investments, accounts receivable, accounts payable, long-term debt and leases, and foreign currency related derivative instruments.
Refer to Note 12 - Long-Term Debt and Other Borrowings for additional information regarding the fair value of the Company’s senior notes and convertible senior notes.
The Company also considers whether changes in the credit ratings of the issuer could impact the assessment of fair value.
The Company carries derivative financial instruments (“derivatives”) on its Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at their fair values.
The Company enters into foreign currency forward contracts and foreign currency options with financial institutions with the primary objective of reducing volatility of earnings and cash flows related to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.
In addition, the Company has entered into interest rate swap agreements to hedge against the variability of cash flows due to changes in certain benchmark interest rates on fixed rate debt.
When derivative instruments are designated and qualify as effective cash flow hedges, the Company recognizes effective changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) until the hedged exposure is realized.
Consequently, the Company’s results of operations are not subject to fluctuation as a result of changes in the fair value of the derivative instruments.
If hedges are not highly effective or if the Company does not believe that the underlying hedged forecasted transactions will occur, the Company may not be able to account for its derivative instruments as cash flow hedges.
If this were to occur, future changes in the fair values of the Company’s derivative instruments would be recognized in earnings.
As of September 29, 2019, the Company had a net loss of $1.6 million accumulated in other comprehensive income, net of tax, related to foreign exchange cash flow hedges which it expects to reclassify from other comprehensive income into earnings over the next 12 months.
Additionally, as of September 29, 2019, the Company had a net loss of $2.1 million accumulated in other comprehensive income, net of tax, related to interest rate contracts which it expects to reclassify from other comprehensive income into earnings over the next 5.5 years.
The Company has interest rate contracts whereby the Company receives fixed rates and pays variable rates based on certain benchmark interest rates, resulting in a net increase or decrease to interest expense, a component of other expense, net in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations.
The Company concluded that these interest rate contracts meet the criteria necessary to qualify for the short-cut method of hedge accounting, and as such an assumption is made that the change in the fair value of the hedged debt, due to changes in the benchmark rate, exactly offsets the change in the fair value of the interest rate swap.
During the quarter ended September 29, 2019, the Company terminated and consequently discontinued the hedging relationship of selected interest rate contracts; refer to Note 12 - Long-Term Debt and Other Borrowings for additional information regarding the accumulated fair value adjustment and the related amortization.
The Company also enters into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge fluctuations associated with foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, primarily cash, third-party accounts receivable, accounts payable, and intercompany receivables and payables.
Under the master netting agreements with the respective counterparties to the Company’s derivative contracts, subject to applicable requirements, the Company is allowed to net settle transactions of the same currency with a single net amount payable by one party to the other.
As of September 29, 2019, the potential effect of rights of offset associated with the above foreign exchange and interest rate contracts would be an offset to assets and liabilities by $1.3 million, resulting in a net derivative asset of $0.5 million and net derivative liability of $1.7 million.
Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash and cash equivalents, investments, restricted cash and investments, trade accounts receivable, and derivative financial instruments used in hedging activities.
The Company is exposed to credit losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties on foreign currency and interest rate hedge contracts that are used to mitigate the effect of exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations, and on contracts related to structured share repurchase arrangements.
The initial debt components of the 2041 Notes were valued based on the present value of the future cash flows using the Company’s borrowing rate at the date of the issuance or assumption for similar debt instruments without the conversion feature, which equals the effective interest rate on the liability component disclosed in the table below, respectively.
The equity component was initially valued equal to the principal value of the notes, less the present value of the future cash flows using the Company’s borrowing rate at the date of the issuance or assumption for similar debt instruments without a conversion feature, which equated to the initial debt discount.
Under certain circumstances, the 2041 Notes may be converted into shares of the Company’s Common Stock.
During the quarter ended September 29, 2019 and in the subsequent period through October 25, 2019, the Company received notice of conversion for an additional $7.3 million principal value of 2041 Notes, which will settle in the quarter ending December 29, 2019.
The Company pays interest at an annual rate of 3.75%, 4.00%, and 4.875%, on the 2026, 2029, and 2049 Notes, respectively, on a semi-annual basis on March 15 and September 15 of each year.
The Company pays interest at an annual rate of 2.75% and 3.80% on the 2020 Notes and 2025 Notes, respectively, on a semi-annual basis on March 15 and September 15 of each year.
During the year ended June 26, 2016, the Company entered into a series of interest rate contracts hedging the fair value of a portion of the 2025 Notes par value, whereby the Company receives a fixed rate and pays a variable rate based on a certain benchmark interest rate.
Under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (as amended by the 2nd and 3rd Amendment), the Company has a revolving credit facility of $1.25 billion with a syndicate of lenders with an expansion option that will allow the Company, subject to certain requirements, to request an increase in the facility of up to an additional $600.0 million, for a potential total commitment of $1.85 billion.
Interest on amounts borrowed under the credit facility is, at the Company’s option, based on (1) a base rate, defined as the greatest of (a) prime rate, (b) Federal Funds rate plus 0.5%, or (c) one-month LIBOR plus 1.0%, plus a spread of 0.0% to 0.5%, or (2) LIBOR multiplied by the statutory rate, plus a spread of 0.9% to 1.50%, in each case as the applicable spread is determined based on the rating of the Company’s non-credit enhanced, senior unsecured long-term debt.
The Company uses its incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of future lease payments when the rate implicit in the lease is unknown.
These amounts are recorded with other restricted cash and investments in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 29, 2019.
In addition to the shares repurchased under the Board-authorized repurchase program shown above, during the three months ended September 29, 2019, the Company acquired 14 thousand shares at a total cost of $2.9 million, which the Company withheld through net settlements to cover minimum tax withholding obligations upon the vesting of restricted stock unit awards granted under the Company’s equity compensation plans.
On June 4, 2019, the Company entered into four separate accelerated share repurchase agreements (collectively, the "June 2019 ASR") with two financial institutions to repurchase a total of $750 million of Common Stock.
In addition, we have entered, and in the future may enter, into derivative instrument arrangements to hedge against the variability of cash flows due to changes in the benchmark interest rate of fixed rate debt.
In addition, we enter into foreign currency hedge contracts to minimize the short-term impact of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, primarily third-party accounts receivables, accounts payables, and intercompany receivables and payables.
Additionally, we are exposed to short-term foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on non-U.S. dollar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities (other than those currency exposures previously discussed), and currently we do not enter into foreign currency hedge contracts against these exposures.
Future dividends and share repurchases may also be affected by, among other factors, our views on potential future capital requirements for investments in acquisitions and the funding of our research and development; legal risks; changes in federal, state, and international tax laws or corporate laws; contractual restrictions, such as financial or operating covenants in our debt arrangements; availability of onshore cash flow; and changes to our business model.


item2.txt
Despite recent semiconductor capital investment volatility, over the longer term, we believe that technology inflections in our industry, including 3D device scaling, multiple patterning, process flow, and advanced packaging chip integration will lead to an increase in our served addressable market for our products and services in deposition, etch, and clean.
While there could be continued variability in the near-term, we believe that demand for our products and services will increase faster than overall spending on wafer fabrication equipment, as the proportion of customers’ capital expenditures rises in these technology inflection areas, and as we gain market share.
In the September 2019 quarter, revenue decreased 8% compared to the June 2019 quarter, reflecting lower customer demand for semiconductor equipment.
The decline in gross margin as a percentage of revenue in the September 2019 quarter compared to the June 2019 quarter was mainly driven by customer and product mix.
Our cash and cash equivalents, investments, and restricted cash and investments balances increased slightly to $5.8 billion at the end of the September 2019 quarter compared to $5.7 billion at the end of the June 2019 quarter.
Revenue for the September 2019 quarter decreased 8% and 7% from the June 2019 and September 2018 quarters, respectively, reflecting lower customer demand for semiconductor equipment.
Our deferred revenue balance at September 29, 2019 increased to $481 million, as compared to $449 million as of June 30, 2019.
The estimated future revenue value from shipments to customers in Japan was approximately $47 million as of September 29, 2019, and $78 million as of June 30, 2019.
Gross margin as a percentage of revenue was lower in the September 2019 quarter compared to the June 2019 quarter primarily due to customer and product mix.
The slight decrease in gross margin as a percentage of revenue in the September 2019 quarter compared to the September 2018 quarter is primarily due to lower factory utilization, partially offset by changes in customer and product mix, and lower amortization expense related to intangibles acquired through business combinations.
Interest income decreased in the September 2019 quarter compared to the June 2019 quarter as a result of lower cash balances and lower yield.
Interest income increased compared to the September 2018 quarter as a result of higher cash balances and higher yield.
Other, net increased in the September 2019 quarter compared to the June 2019 and September 2018 quarters due to investments unrelated to cash and marketable securities.
Our contracts with customers typically do not include significant financing components as the period between the transfer of performance obligations and timing of payment are generally within one year.


item3.txt
We mitigate default risk by investing in high credit quality securities and by positioning our portfolio to respond appropriately to a significant reduction in a credit rating of any investment issuer or guarantor.


item4.txt
As required by Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(b), as of September 29, 2019, we carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rule 13a-15(e).


part2.txt
During periods of rapid growth or decline in demand for our products and services, we face significant challenges in maintaining adequate financial and business controls, management processes, information systems, and procedures for training, assimilating, and managing our workforce, and in appropriately sizing our supply chain infrastructure and facilities, work force, and other components of our business on a timely basis.
Negative industry or economic trends, including reduced market prices of our Common Stock, reduced estimates of future cash flows, disruptions to our business, slower growth rates, or lack of growth in our relevant business units, could lead to impairment charges against our long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets.
If, in any period, our stock price decreases to the point where our fair value, as determined by our market capitalization, is less than the book value of our assets, this could also indicate a potential impairment, and we may be required to record an impairment charge in that period, which could adversely affect our result of operations.
In addition, we have entered, and in the future may enter, into derivative instrument arrangements to hedge against the variability of cash flows due to changes in the benchmark interest rate of fixed rate debt.
Our ability to meet our expenses and debt obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory, and other factors.
The number of shares of our Common Stock into which the Convertible Notes are convertible may be adjusted from time to time, including increases in such rates as a result of dividends that we pay to our stockholders.
Upon conversion of any Convertible Notes, we will deliver cash in the amount of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes and, with respect to any excess conversion value greater than the principal amount of the Convertible Notes, shares of our Common Stock, which would result in dilution to our stockholders.
Prior to the maturity of the Convertible Notes, if the price of our Common Stock exceeds the conversion price, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles require that we report an increase in diluted share count, which would result in lower reported earnings per share.
These providers and suppliers might suffer financial setbacks, be acquired by third parties, become subject to exclusivity arrangements that preclude further business with us, or be unable to meet our requirements or expectation due to their independent business decisions or force majeure events that could interrupt or impair their continued ability to perform as we expect.
In addition, we enter into foreign currency hedge contracts to minimize the short-term impact of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, primarily third-party accounts receivables, accounts payables, and intercompany receivables and payables.
Additionally, we are exposed to short-term foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on non-U.S. dollar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities (other than those currency exposures previously discussed), and currently we do not enter into foreign currency hedge contracts against these exposures.
Therefore, we are subject to potential unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations to the extent that we transact business (including intercompany transactions) in these currencies.
Our success in hiring depends on a variety of factors, including the attractiveness of our compensation and benefit programs, global economic or political and industry conditions, our organizational structure, global competition for talent and the availability of qualified employees, the availability of career development opportunities, the ability to obtain necessary authorizations for workers to provide services outside their home countries, and our ability to offer a challenging and rewarding work environment.
Our intent to continue to pay quarterly dividends and to repurchase our shares is subject to capital availability and periodic determinations by our Board of Directors that cash dividends and share repurchases are in the best interest of our stockholders and are in compliance with all laws and agreements applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends or the repurchasing of shares by us.
Future dividends and share repurchases may also be affected by, among other factors, our views on potential future capital requirements for investments in acquisitions and the funding of our research and development; legal risks; changes in federal, state, and international tax laws or corporate laws; contractual restrictions, such as financial or operating covenants in our debt arrangements; availability of onshore cash flow; and changes to our business model.
A reduction or suspension in our dividend payments or share repurchases could have a negative effect on the price of our Common Stock.
On June 4, 2019, we entered into four separate accelerated share repurchase agreements (collectively, the "June 2019 ASR") with two financial institutions to repurchase a total of $750 million of Common Stock.


