item1.txt
The implementation resulted in a net reduction of prepaid expense and other current assets of $49.7 million, accrued expense and other current liabilities of $5.3 million, and other long-term liabilities of $39.4 million; and an increase in other assets of $5.0 million in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet, and had no impact on cash provided by or used in operations for any period presented.
As a result of the adoption, the Company recorded a $40.1 million cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings for the recognition of previously unrecognized excess tax benefits for all years prior to the adoption.
The amendment provides clarity on the measurement methodology to be used for the required disclosure of fair value of financial instruments measured at amortized cost on the balance sheet and clarifies that an entity should evaluate the need for a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets related to available-for-sale securities in combination with the entity’s other deferred tax assets, among other changes.
The Company is required to adopt this standard starting in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and does not anticipate that implementation will have a material impact on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Company is required to adopt the standard in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 using a modified-retrospective approach through a cumulative-effect adjustment directly to retained earnings.
In the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2016-9, “Compensation – Stock Compensation,” as discussed further in Note 2.
During the three and six months ended December 24, 2017, a total of 412,469 shares of the Company’s Common Stock were sold to employees under the 1999 ESPP.
The Company recorded an income tax expense of $744.2 million and $841.2 million for the three and six months ended December 24, 2017, which yielded an effective tax rate of approximately 101.4% and 59.2%, respectively.
Revaluation of the Company’s deferred tax balances to reflect the new U.S. federal statutory tax rate and computation of the one-time transition tax on accumulated unrepatriated foreign earnings, were recorded on a provisional basis in the three and six months ended December 24, 2017 and are therefore subject to potential measurement period adjustments under SAB 118.
Other significant items which are being evaluated by the Company but for which no estimate can currently be made and for which no provisional amounts were recorded in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, include the impact of the “Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income” (“GILTI”) provision of U.S. tax reform.
Diluted shares outstanding do not include any effect resulting from note hedges associated with the Company’s 2018 Notes as their impact would have been anti-dilutive.
All of the Company’s other investments are classified as available-for-sale and consequently are recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax.
The Company defines fair value as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required or permitted to be recorded at fair value, the Company considers the principal or most advantageous market in which it would transact, and it considers assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.
The Company’s primary financial instruments include its cash, cash equivalents, investments, restricted cash and investments, long-term investments, accounts receivable, accounts payable, long-term debt and capital leases, and foreign currency related derivative instruments.
Refer to Note 11 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the fair value of the Company’s Senior Notes and Convertible Notes.
The Company carries derivative financial instruments (“derivatives”) on its Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at their fair values.
The Company enters into foreign currency forward contracts and foreign currency options with financial institutions with the primary objective of reducing volatility of earnings and cash flows related to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.
In addition, the Company has entered into interest rate swap agreements to hedge against the variability of cash flows due to changes in certain benchmark interest rates on fixed rate debt.
When derivative instruments are designated and qualify as effective cash flow hedges, the Company recognizes effective changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) until the hedged exposure is realized.
Consequently, with the exception of excluded time value associated with the forward contracts and hedge ineffectiveness recognized, the Company’s results of operations are not subject to fluctuation as a result of changes in the fair value of the derivative instruments.
If hedges are not highly effective or if the Company does not believe that the underlying hedged forecasted transactions will occur, the Company may not be able to account for its derivative instruments as cash flow hedges.
As of December 24, 2017, the Company had gains of $7.8 million accumulated in other comprehensive income, net of tax, related to foreign exchange cash flow hedges which it expects to reclassify from other comprehensive income into earnings over the next 12 months.
Additionally, as of December 24, 2017, the Company had a net loss of $1.9 million accumulated in other comprehensive income, net of tax, related to interest rate contracts which it expects to reclassify from other comprehensive income into earnings over the next 7.2 years.
The Company has interest rate contracts whereby the Company receives fixed rates and pays variable rates based on certain benchmark interest rates, resulting in a net increase or decrease to interest expense, a component of other expense, net in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations.
The Company concluded that these interest rate contracts meet the criteria necessary to qualify for the short-cut method of hedge accounting, and as such an assumption is made that the change in the fair value of the hedged debt, due to changes in the benchmark rate, exactly offsets the change in the fair value of the interest rate swap.
The Company also enters into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge fluctuations associated with foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, primarily cash, third-party accounts receivable, accounts payable, and intercompany receivables and payables.
Under the master netting agreements with the respective counterparties to the Company’s derivative contracts, subject to applicable requirements, the Company is allowed to net settle transactions of the same currency with a single net amount payable by one party to the other.
Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash and cash equivalents, investments, restricted cash and investments, trade accounts receivable, and derivative financial instruments used in hedging activities.
The Company is exposed to credit losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties on foreign currency and interest rate hedge contracts that are used to mitigate the effect of exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations, and on contracts related to structured share repurchase arrangements.
Under certain circumstances, the Convertible Notes may be converted into shares of the Company’s Common Stock.
During the quarter ended December 24, 2017, and in the subsequent period through January 26, 2018, the Company received notice of conversion of an additional $227.8 million principal value of Convertible Notes, which will settle in the quarter ending March 25, 2018.
In conjunction with the convertible note hedge, counterparties agreed to sell to the Company shares of Common Stock equal to the number of shares issuable upon conversion of the 2018 Notes in full.
Settlement of the convertible note hedge in net shares, based on the number of shares issued upon conversion of the 2018 Notes, on the expiration date would result in the Company receiving net shares equivalent to the number of shares issuable by the Company upon conversion of the 2018 Notes.
During the year ended June 26, 2016, the Company entered into a series of interest rate contracts hedging the fair value of a portion of the 2025 Notes par value, whereby the Company receives a fixed rate and pays a variable rate based on a certain benchmark interest rate.
In addition, upon the occurrence of certain events, as described in the indenture, the Company will be required to make an offer to repurchase the Senior Notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the Senior Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest.
In addition, upon the occurrence of certain events, as described in the indenture, the Company will be required to make an offer to repurchase the 2021 Notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the respective note, plus accrued and unpaid interest.
The Amended Credit Agreement provides for an expansion option that will allow the Company, subject to certain requirements, to request an increase in the facility of up to an additional $600 million, for a potential total commitment of $1.85 billion.
These amounts are recorded with other restricted cash and investments in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 24, 2017.
In addition to the shares repurchased under the Board-authorized repurchase program shown above, during the three and six months ended December 24, 2017, the Company acquired 98 thousand shares at a total cost of $18.4 million and 109 thousand shares at a total cost of $20.2 million, respectively, which the Company withheld through net settlements to cover minimum tax withholding obligations upon the vesting of restricted stock unit awards granted under the Company’s equity compensation plans.
On November 20, 2017, the Company entered into four separate accelerated share repurchase agreements (collectively, the "November 2017 ASR") with two financial institutions to repurchase a total of $1.0 billion of Common Stock.
The total number of shares to be received under the November 2017 ASR will be based upon the average daily volume weighted average price of the Company’s Common Stock during the repurchase period, less an agreed upon discount.
On April 19, 2017, the Company entered into two separate accelerated share repurchase agreements (collectively, the “April 2017 ASR”) with two financial institutions to repurchase a total of $500 million of Common Stock.
The Company expects to continue to obtain information to assist us in determining the fair value of the net assets acquired during the measurement period.
The operating results of the acquired entity, from the date of acquisition, have been included in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the three and six months ended December 24, 2017.
The price of our Common Stock could also be affected by sales of our Common Stock by investors who view the Convertible Notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in our company and also by hedging activity that may develop involving our Common Stock by holders of the Convertible Notes.
In addition, we enter into foreign currency hedge contracts to minimize the short-term impact of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities, primarily third-party accounts receivables, accounts payables, and intercompany receivables and payables.
Future dividends and share repurchases may also be affected by, among other factors, our views on potential future capital requirements for investments in acquisitions and the funding of our research and development; legal risks; changes in federal and state income tax laws or corporate laws; contractual restrictions, such as financial or operating covenants in our debt arrangements; availability of onshore cash flow; and changes to our business model.


item2.txt
In the December 2017 quarter, revenue increased compared to the September 2017 quarter primarily as a result of increased investments from our memory customers.
Gross margin as a percentage of revenue in the December 2017 quarter increased as compared to the September 2017 quarter primarily due to favorable customer and product mix.
Operating expenses in the December 2017 quarter increased compared to the September 2017 quarter mainly due to an increase in employee headcount and outside services.
We used cash during the December 2017 quarter for approximately $1.1 billion of share repurchases, including net share settlement on employee stock-based compensation, $206 million of purchases of available-for-sale securities, $85 million of capital expenditures, and $73 million of dividends paid to our stockholders; offset 
Shipments for the December 2017 quarter increased 11% from the September 2017 quarter and increased 37% from the December 2016 quarter levels, reflecting timing of customer demand for semiconductor equipment.
Revenue for the December 2017 quarter increased 4% from the September 2017 quarter, increased 37% compared to the December 2016 quarter, and increased 44% in the six months ended December 24, 2017 compared to the same period in 2016, reflecting stronger customer demand for semiconductor equipment in 2017.
Our deferred revenue balance increased to $1.1 billion as of December 24, 2017, compared to $938 million as of September 24, 2017, as a result of timing of shipments and revenue recognition.
The estimated future revenue value from shipments to Japanese customers was approximately $289 million as of December 24, 2017, and $344 million as of September 24, 2017.
Gross margin as a percentage of revenue increased in the December 2017 quarter compared to the September 2017 and the December 2016 quarter, as well as, in the six months ended December 24, 2017 compared to the same period in 2016 primarily due to favorable changes in customer and product mix.
Interest income increased in the December 2017 quarter compared to the December 2016 quarter as a result of higher yield.
Other, net was higher during the December 2017 quarter, compared to the September 2017 quarter, primarily due to losses associated with the release of accumulated currency translation adjustments resulting from legal entity dissolutions during the period.
The increase in the effective tax rate for the three months ended December 24, 2017 compared to the three months ended September 24, 2017 and the three months ended December 25, 2016 was primarily due to the impact of U.S. tax reform to the federal statutory tax rate, one-time transition tax on accumulated unrepatriated foreign earnings, and reversal of the deferred tax accrual set up in prior periods related to accumulated foreign earnings to be repatriated.
The increase in the effective tax rate for the six months ended December 24, 2017 compared to the six months ended December 25, 2016 was primarily due to the impact of U.S. tax reform to the federal statutory tax rate, one-time transition tax on accumulated unrepatriated foreign earnings, and reversal of the deferred tax accrual set up in prior periods related to accumulated foreign earnings to be repatriated.
During the six months ended December 24, 2017, approximately $346.3 million principle value of Convertible Notes were converted and in the subsequent period through January 26, 2018, we received notice of conversion of an additional $228 million principal value of Convertible Notes, which will settle in the quarter ending March 25, 2018.
During the December 2017 quarter, a one-time transition tax on accumulated unrepatriated foreign earnings, estimated at $991.3 million has been recognized associated with the recent U.S. tax reform.
On November 20, 2017, we entered into four separate accelerated share repurchase agreements (collectively, the " November 2017 ASR") with two financial institutions to repurchase a total of $1.0 billion of Common Stock.
The total number of shares to be received under the November 2017 ASR will be based upon the average daily volume weighted average price of our Common Stock during the repurchase period, less an agreed upon discount.


item4.txt
As required by Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(b), as of December 24, 2017, we carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rule 13a-15(e).


part2.txt
During periods of rapid growth or decline in demand for our products and services, we face significant challenges in maintaining adequate financial and business controls, management processes, information systems, and procedures for training and managing our workforce, and in appropriately sizing our supply chain infrastructure and facilities, work force, and other components of our business on a timely basis.
Negative industry or economic trends, including reduced market prices of our Common Stock, reduced estimates of future cash flows, disruptions to our business, slower growth rates, or lack of growth in our relevant business units, could lead to impairment charges against our long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets.
If, in any period, our stock price decreases to the point where our fair value, as determined by our market capitalization, is less than the book value of our assets, this could also indicate a potential impairment, and we may be required to record an impairment charge in that period, which could adversely affect our result of operations.
In addition, we have entered, and in the future may enter, into derivative instrument arrangements to hedge against the variability of cash flows due to changes in the benchmark interest rate of fixed rate debt.
Our ability to meet our expenses and debt obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory, and other factors.
The number of shares of our Common Stock into which the Convertible Notes are convertible and for which related warrants are exercisable for may be adjusted from time to time, including increases in such rates as a result of dividends that we pay to our stockholders.
Upon conversion of any Convertible Notes, we will deliver cash in the amount of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes and, with respect to any excess conversion value greater than the principal amount of the Convertible Notes, shares of our Common Stock, which would result in dilution to our stockholders.
Prior to the maturity of the Convertible Notes, if the price of our Common Stock exceeds the conversion price, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles require that we report an increase in diluted share count, which would result in lower reported earnings per share.
The price of our Common Stock could also be affected by sales of our Common Stock by investors who view the Convertible Notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in our company and also by hedging activity that may develop involving our Common Stock by holders of the Convertible Notes.
In addition, we enter into foreign currency hedge contracts to minimize the short-term impact of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities, primarily third-party accounts receivables, accounts payables, and intercompany receivables and payables.
Additionally, we are exposed to short-term foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on non-U.S. dollar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities (other than those currency exposures previously discussed), and currently we do not enter into foreign currency hedge contracts against these exposures.
Our success in hiring depends on a variety of factors, including the attractiveness of our compensation and benefit programs, global economic or political and industry conditions, our organizational structure, global competition for talent and the availability of qualified employees, the availability of career development opportunities, the ability to obtain necessary authorizations for workers to provide services outside their home countries, and our ability to offer a challenging and rewarding work environment.
Additionally, intellectual property litigation can be expensive and time-consuming and even when patents are issued or trade secret processes are followed, the legal systems in certain of the countries in which we do business do not enforce patents and other intellectual property rights as rigorously as the United States.
Our intent to continue to pay quarterly dividends and to repurchase our shares is subject to capital availability and, in the case of dividends, periodic determinations by our Board of Directors that cash dividends are in the best interest of our stockholders and are in compliance with all laws and agreements applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends by us.
Future dividends and share repurchases may also be affected by, among other factors, our views on potential future capital requirements for investments in acquisitions and the funding of our research and development; legal risks; changes in federal and state income tax laws or corporate laws; contractual restrictions, such as financial or operating covenants in our debt arrangements; availability of onshore cash flow; and changes to our business model.
On November 20, 2017, we entered into four separate accelerated share repurchase agreements (collectively, the " November 2017 ASR") with two financial institutions to repurchase a total of $1.0 billion of Common Stock.
The total number of shares to be received under the November 2017 ASR will be based upon the average daily volume weighted average price of our Common Stock during the repurchase period, less an agreed upon discount.
On April 19, 2017, we entered into two separate accelerated share repurchase agreements (collectively, the “April 2017 ASR”) with two financial institutions to repurchase a total of $500 million of Common Stock.
The total number of shares received under the April 2017 ASR was based upon the average daily volume weighted average price of our Common Stock during the repurchase period, less an agreed upon discount.


