Item 4.
Controls and Procedures

Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act)), as of March 30, 2019.
Based on that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of March 30, 2019, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective.
There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the second quarter of fiscal year 2019 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
Legal Proceedings

We are subject to various claims, legal actions and complaints arising in the ordinary course of business.
We are not presently a party to any litigation the outcome of which we believe, if determined adversely to us, would individually or taken together have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flows or financial condition.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors

A discussion of our risk factors can be found in Item 1A of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2018.
The risks described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K are not the only risks we face.
Additional risks not currently known to us, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, may also adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations in future periods.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds



We purchase common stock from time to time to mitigate dilution related to new shares issued as equity for employee compensation such as stock options, restricted stock units, performance restricted stock units and employee stock purchase plan activity, as well as to return to shareholders capital not immediately required to fund ongoing operations.
Share Purchase Plan

Our Board of Directors approved, and on February 11, 2011 announced, a purchase authorization of 2,000 shares.
Authority over pricing and timing under the authorization has been delegated to management.
The share purchase authorization has no expiration date.
We made no share purchases during the second quarter of fiscal year 2019.
As of March 30, 2019, there were 438 shares available for purchase under the existing authorization.
Capped Calls

In connection with the pricing of the tangible equity units (TEUs) sold in our public offering in fiscal year 2016, we purchased capped calls from third party banking institutions (Capped Calls) for $7,935.
On June 13, 2018, we amended the agreements with third party banking institutions for the outstanding Capped Calls (Capped Call Agreements) to modify the timing of settlement to be only upon expiration for all outstanding Capped Calls.
Per the Capped Call Agreements, the outstanding Capped Calls will automatically settle upon expiration on July 1, 2019.
As of March 30, 2019 the range of shares of our common stock to be received for the outstanding Capped Calls was a minimum of 0 shares to a maximum of 268 shares, subject to market conditions.
See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on our equity instruments.
Item 6.
Exhibits


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
