Financial Statements.
The Company has a controlling interest in Mission Support Alliance, LLC ("MSA"), a joint venture with Centerra Group, LLC.
As a result, Leidos increased its controlling ownership in MSA from 47% to 88%.
The Company consolidates the financial results for MSA into its unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements also include the balances of all voting interest entities in which Leidos has a controlling voting interest (“subsidiaries”) and a variable interest entity ("VIE") in which Leidos is the primary beneficiary.
The consolidated balances of the Company’s VIE are not material to the Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for the periods presented.
Intercompany accounts and transactions between consolidated companies have been eliminated in consolidation.
The accompanying unaudited condensed financial information has been prepared in accordance with the rules of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP").
Certain disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules.
Certain amounts in the prior year financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU 2014-09 ("ASC 606") and related amendments, which superseded all prior revenue recognition methods and industry-specific guidance.
The core principle of ASC 606 is an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of control for promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
In applying the revenue principles, an entity is required to identify the contract(s) with a customer, identify the performance obligations, determine the transaction price, allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations and recognize revenue when the performance obligation is satisfied (i.e., either over time or point in time).
ASC 606 provided companies an option of two transition methods, the full retrospective method, in which case the standard would be applied to each prior reporting period presented and the cumulative effect of applying the standard would be recognized at the earliest period shown, or the modified retrospective method, in which case the cumulative effect of applying the standard would be recognized at the date of initial application.
Effective December 30, 2017 (the beginning of fiscal 2018), the Company adopted the requirements of ASC 606 using the modified retrospective method.
The guidance was not applied to contracts that were complete at December 30, 2017, and the comparative information for the prior fiscal year has not been retrospectively adjusted.
The Company recorded a $1 million decrease to its beginning accumulated deficit as the cumulative impact of adoption of the new revenue standard.
The primary impact was on certain units-of-delivery contracts, which the Company previously recognized revenue at a point in time when the customer accepted delivery of the product or service.
Under ASC 606, revenues on certain units-of-delivery contracts are now recognized using an over-time model.
The adoption of ASC 606 did not have a significant impact on the Company's revenue recognition policy as revenues on the substantially all of the Company's contracts continue to be recognized over time.
In adopting ASC 606, the Company elected to use certain practical expedients permitted by the standard including using the portfolio approach where contracts with similar characteristics were assessed collectively to evaluate risk over the impact of ASC 606.
The Company also elected to adopt the right-to-invoice practical expedient on certain cost-reimbursable contracts where the Company recognizes revenues as it is contractually able to invoice the customer based on the control transferred to the customer.
In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-12, which simplifies the application of hedge accounting and improves the financial reporting of hedging relationships to better portray the economic results of an entity's risk management activities.
The Company early adopted the provisions of ASU 2017-12 using the modified retrospective method during the quarter ended March 30, 2018, and recorded a $3 million increase to accumulated other comprehensive income and a corresponding increase to beginning accumulated deficit for the cumulative ineffectiveness gains related to the cash flow hedges.
The Company early adopted the provisions of ASU 2018-02 during the quarter ended March 30, 2018 (applied in the period of adoption), and recorded a $6 million increase to accumulated other comprehensive income and a corresponding increase to beginning accumulated deficit to reflect the changes in the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate as a result of the Tax Act.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, which supersedes the current lease guidance under Leases (Topic 840) and makes several changes, such as requiring an entity to recognize a right-of-use asset and corresponding lease obligation on the balance sheet, classified as financing or operating, as appropriate.
The update is effective for public companies for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and should be adopted under the modified retrospective approach.
The Company plans to adopt the new lease accounting standard in fiscal 2019 and is currently in the process of reviewing lease contracts, implementing a new lease accounting and administration software solution, establishing new processes and internal controls and evaluating the impact of certain accounting policy elections.
The potential impact on the consolidated financial statements will largely be based on the present value of future minimum lease payments, the amount of which will depend upon the population of leases in effect at the date of adoption.
The Company's revenues from contracts with customers are from offerings including cybersecurity; data analytics; enterprise IT modernization; operations and logistics; sensors, collection and phenomenology; software development; and systems engineering, primarily with the U.S. government and its agencies.
Most of the Company's contracts comprise multiple promises including the design and build of software-based systems, integration of hardware and software solutions, running and maintaining of IT infrastructure and procurement services.
The Company generally separates multiple promises in a contract as separate performance obligations if those promises are distinct, both individually and in the context of the contract.
If multiple promises in a contract are highly interrelated or comprise a series of distinct services performed over time, they are combined and accounted for as a single performance obligation.
The Company's contracts with the U.S. government often contain options to renew existing contracts for an additional period of time (generally a year at a time) under the same terms and conditions as the original contract, and generally do not provide the customer any material rights under the contract.
The Company accounts for renewal options as separate contracts when they include distinct goods or services at standalone selling prices.
Contracts with the U.S. government are subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulation ("FAR") and priced on estimated or actual costs of providing the goods or services.
The FAR provides guidance on types of costs that are allowable in establishing prices for goods and services provided to the U.S. government and its agencies.
Each contract is competitively priced and bid separately.
Pricing for non-U.S. government agencies and commercial customers is based on specific negotiations with each customer.
The Company excludes any taxes collected or imposed when determining the transaction price.
Certain of the Company's cost-plus and fixed-price contracts contain award fees, incentive fees or other provisions that may either increase or decrease the transaction price.
The Company allocates the transaction price of a contract to its performance obligations in the proportion of its respective standalone selling prices.
The standalone selling price of the Company's performance obligations is generally based on an expected cost-plus margin approach, in accordance with the FAR.
Substantially all of the Company's contracts do not contain a significant financing component, which would require an adjustment to the transaction price of the contract.
The Company recognizes revenue on its service based contracts primarily over time as there is continuous transfer of control to the customer over the duration of the contract as the Company performs the promised services.
Anticipated losses on service based contracts are recognized as incurred.
In such cases, the Company recognizes revenue on a net basis.
The Company does not incur significant incremental costs to acquire contracts.
Contract costs incurred for U.S. government contracts, including indirect costs, are subject to audit and adjustment by the Defense Contract Audit Agency ("DCAA") (see "Note 20–Contingencies").
The impact on diluted EPS attributable to Leidos common stockholders is calculated using the Company's statutory tax rate.
During the quarter and six months ended June 29, 2018, revenue recognized from performance obligations satisfied in previous periods was $32 million and $66 million, respectively.
The Company's cash equivalents are primarily comprised of investments in several large institutional money market funds and bank deposits, with original maturity of three months or less.
At June 29, 2018, and December 29, 2017, the Company included $63 million and $169 million, respectively, of outstanding payments within "Cash and cash equivalents."
The Company's receivables include amounts billed and currently due from customers, amounts billable where the right to consideration is unconditional and amounts unbilled.
Unbilled amounts also include rate variances that are billable upon negotiation of final indirect rates with the DCAA.
When events or conditions indicate that amounts outstanding from customers may become uncollectible, an allowance is estimated and recorded.
The changes reflected above were primarily due to the Company's units-of-delivery contracts, which were recognized at a point in time under ASC 605 and are recognized using an over-time model under ASC 606.
Remaining performance obligations represent the expected value of exercised contracts, both funded and unfunded, less revenue recognized to date.
As of June 29, 2018, the Company had $9.0 billion of remaining performance obligations, which are expected to be recognized as revenue in the amounts of $4.6 billion, $2.0 billion and $2.4 billion for the remainder of fiscal 2018, fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2020 and thereafter, respectively.
The Company disaggregates revenues by customer-type, contract-type and geographic location for each of its reportable segments.
The majority of the Company's revenues is generated from U.S. government contracts, either as a prime contractor or as a subcontractor to other contractors.
Government spending levels for the DoD may be impacted by spending priorities as a result of competing demands for federal funds.
Contract assets include unbilled receivables, which is the amount of revenue recognized that exceeds the amount billed to the customer, where right to payment is not just subject to the passage of time.
Contract assets also include transition costs and project assets.
Project assets represent assets for specific contracts.
The increase in deferred revenue was primarily due to increased advance payments from customers.
During the quarter and six months ended June 29, 2018, the Company recognized revenue of $72 million and $127 million, respectively, relating to amounts that were included as a contract liability at December 30, 2017.
During the quarter and six months ended June 29, 2018, the Company recognized $37 million and $40 million of amortization, respectively, related to its transition costs and project assets.
The Company did not recognize any impairment losses on contract assets for the quarter and six months ended June 29, 2018.
During the quarter ended June 29, 2018, a tax indemnification liability of $23 million was paid to Lockheed Martin in accordance with the Tax Matters Agreement, which was presented as cash flows from financing activities in the Company's condensed consolidated statement of cash flows.
On July 24, 2015, the Company completed the sale of its equity interests in Plainfield Renewable Energy Holdings LLC ("Plainfield") for an aggregate consideration of $102 million, subject to certain adjustments and contingent earn-out payments.
The Company collected $6 million of principal and interest during the quarter ended March 31, 2017.
Concurrent with this extension, the interest rate on the Note increased from 6% to 8%.
Also, during the quarter ended June 30, 2017, Leidos and Plainfield entered into an amendment to the Note allowing Plainfield to defer up to $4 million of the interest and principal payments due in July 2017 and January 2018 until July 2018.
In consideration of this deferment, Leidos received certain concessions and releases from obligations under the original transaction documents.
In January 2018, the Company entered into negotiations with the equity owners of Plainfield regarding the Plainfield Recapitalization Plan ("Plan").
The net realizable value of the Note, at December 29, 2017, was estimated to be approximately $40 million, compared to its carrying value of $73 million, including accrued interest.
As a result, the Company recorded a $33 million impairment of its Note during the quarter ended December 29, 2017, which was presented within "Other income, net" in the Company's condensed consolidated statement of income.
In June 2018, Leidos and Plainfield entered into an additional amendment to the Note, allowing Plainfield to defer the maturity of the Note until the earlier of July 13, 2018, or the date Plainfield successfully closes on a refinancing agreement with a third party.
See "Note 22–Subsequent Events" regarding the additional amendment entered into in July 2018.
As of June 29, 2018, the Company continues to expect the Note to be collectible in full.
As of June 29, 2018, Leidos has recognized a total of $52 million of expense in connection with these restructuring activities.
Accumulated goodwill impairment losses were $369 million and $117 million within the Health and Civil segments, respectively, at June 29, 2018, December 29, 2017, and December 30, 2016.
Goodwill is tested for impairment at the beginning of the fourth quarter and during interim periods whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
There were no goodwill impairments during the six months ended June 29, 2018, and June 30, 2017.
Amortization expense was $51 million and $101 million for the quarter and six months ended June 29, 2018, respectively, and $67 million and $136 million for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2017, respectively.
Program and contract intangible assets are amortized over their respective estimated useful lives in proportion to the pattern of economic benefit based on expected future discounted cash flows.
Customer relationships and backlog intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
Depreciation expense was $15 million and $28 million for the quarter and six months ended June 29, 2018, respectively, and $13 million and $26 million for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2017, respectively.
During the quarter ended March 30, 2018, the Company determined that the carrying amount of a real estate property may not be recoverable and as a result recorded an impairment charge of $7 million, which was recorded within Corporate.
The accounting guidance for fair value measurements requires that the Company maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs in determining fair value.
The Company has not made fair value option elections on any of its financial assets and liabilities.
The Company's derivatives consisted of the fair value interest rate swaps on its $450 million, fixed rate 4.45% senior secured notes maturing in December 2020 and cash flow interest rate swaps on $1.6 billion of the Company's variable rate senior secured term loans (see "Note 13–Derivative Instruments").
The fair value of the fair value interest rate swaps and cash flow interest rate swaps is determined based on observed values for underlying interest rates on the LIBOR yield curve and the underlying interest rate, respectively (Level 2 inputs).
The carrying amounts of the Company's financial instruments, other than derivatives, which include cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued expenses, are reasonable estimates of their related fair values.
As of June 29, 2018, and December 29, 2017, the fair value of debt was $3.1 billion and $3.2 billion, respectively, and the carrying amount was $3.1 billion at both dates (see "Note 14–Debt").
The fair value of long-term debt is determined based on current interest rates available for debt with terms and maturities similar to the Company’s existing debt arrangements (Level 2 inputs).
At March 30, 2018, the Company had a real estate property measured at fair value (Level 2), which resulted in an impairment charge of $7 million (see "Note 11–Property, Plant and Equipment").
The Company did not have any assets or liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis at June 29, 2018.
The Company manages its risk to changes in interest rates through the use of derivative instruments.
For fixed rate borrowings, the Company uses variable interest rate swaps, effectively converting fixed rate borrowings to variable rate borrowings.
These swaps are designated as fair value hedges.
For variable rate borrowings, the Company uses fixed interest rate swaps, effectively converting a portion of the variable interest rate payments to fixed interest rate payments.
These swaps are designated as cash flow hedges.
Under the terms of the interest rate swap agreements, the Company will receive semi-annual interest payments at the coupon rate of 4.45% and will pay variable interest based on the six-month LIBOR rate.
The interest rate swaps were accounted for as a fair value hedge of the Notes and qualified for the shortcut method of hedge accounting, which allows for the assumption of no ineffectiveness reported in earnings.
The resulting changes in the fair value of the interest rate swaps are fully offset by the changes in the fair value of the underlying debt (the hedged item) (See "Note 14–Debt").
The fair value of the Notes is stated at an amount that reflects changes in the six-month LIBOR rate subsequent to the inception of the interest rate swaps through the reporting date.
The Company has interest rate swap agreements to hedge the cash flows of a portion of its variable rate senior secured term loans (the "Variable Rate Loans").
Under the terms of the interest rate swap agreements, the Company will receive monthly variable interest payments based on the one-month LIBOR rate and will pay interest at a fixed rate.
In February 2018, the Company entered into interest rate swap agreements to hedge the cash flows of an additional $250 million of its Variable Rate Loans.
The interest rate swap agreements on $1.1 billion of the Company's Variable Rate Loans have a maturity date of December 2021 and a fixed interest rate of 1.08%.
The interest rate swap agreements on $300 million and $250 million of the Company's Variable Rate Loans both have a maturity date of August 2022 and a fixed interest rate of 1.66% and 2.59%, respectively.
The Company expects to reclassify gains of $15 million from accumulated other comprehensive income into earnings during the next 12 months.
In March 2018, Leidos amended the terms of its senior secured $1.1 billion Term Loan B, due August 2023.
As a result, the margin on Term Loan B was reduced by 25 basis points to 1.75%.
The repricing of the term loan became effective March 15, 2018.
The interest rate on the Company's senior secured term loans is determined based on the LIBOR rate plus a margin.
The margin for the Term Loan A loans ranges from 1.50% to 2.00%, depending on the Company's senior secured leverage ratio, and is computed on a quarterly basis.
At June 29, 2018, the current margin on Term Loan A and Term Loan B was 1.75%.
The Company made required quarterly payments on its senior secured term loans of $16 million and $31 million during the quarter and six months ended June 29, 2018, respectively, and $21 million and $41 million during the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2017, respectively.
In April 2018, the Company made a required debt prepayment of $10 million on its senior secured term loans.
The prepayment was a result of the annual excess cash flow calculation clause in the Company's credit agreements.
In addition to the required payments on its term loans, the Company prepaid $25 million during the quarter ended June 30, 2017.
The Company has a revolving credit facility providing up to $750 million in secured borrowing capacity at interest rates determined based upon the LIBOR rate plus a margin that is subject to step-down provisions based on the Company's senior secured leverage ratio.
As of June 29, 2018, and December 29, 2017, there were no borrowings outstanding under the credit facility.
Amortization of the debt discount and deferred debt issuance costs related to the senior secured term loans and notes, unsecured notes and revolving credit facility was $3 million and $6 million for the quarter and six months ended June 29, 2018, respectively, and $3 million and $7 million for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2017, respectively.
The Company was in compliance with all covenants as of June 29, 2018.
Reclassifications from unrecognized gain on derivative instruments are recorded in "Interest expense, net" in the Company's condensed consolidated statements of income.
During the quarter and six months ended June 29, 2018, the Company made open market repurchases of its common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $90 million and $100 million, respectively.
All shares repurchased were immediately retired.
The restricted cash is recorded within "Inventory, prepaid expenses and other current assets" in the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets.
The restricted cash primarily comprises of advances from customers that are restricted as to use for certain expenditures related to that customer's contract.
However, the Company was able to make reasonable estimates and has recorded provisional amounts.
The Company expects to finalize its assessment of all provisional amounts within the allowed one-year measurement period.
The Company made no changes to fiscal 2017 provisional amounts during the six months ended June 29, 2018.
For the quarter ended June 29, 2018, the effective tax rate was 12.1% compared to 27.4% for the quarter ended June 30, 2017.
For the six months ended June 29, 2018, the effective tax rate was 14.8% compared to 29.2% for the six months ended June 30, 2017.
The Company defines its reportable segments based on the way the chief operating decision maker ("CODM"), currently its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, manages the operations of the Company for purposes of allocating resources and assessing performance.
The financial performance measures used to evaluate segment performance are revenues and operating income.
As such, the company does not separately disclose depreciation expense on the condensed consolidated statements of income.
Asset information by segment is not a key measure of performance used by the CODM.
On November 10, 2015, MSA received a final decision by the Department of Energy ("DoE") contracting officer for the Mission Support Contract concluding that certain payments to MSA by the DoE for the performance of IT services by Lockheed Martin Services, Inc. ("LMSI") under a subcontract to MSA constituted alleged affiliate fees in violation of the FAR.
Lockheed Martin Integrated Technology LLC (now known as Leidos Integrated Technology LLC) is a member entity of MSA.
Subsequent to the contracting officer's final decision, MSA, LMSI, and Lockheed Martin Corporation received notice from the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of Washington that the U.S. government had initiated a False Claims Act investigation into the facts surrounding this dispute, and each of MSA, LMSI and Lockheed Martin Corporation have produced information in response to Civil Investigative Demands from the U.S. Attorney's Office.
In addition, the U.S. Attorney's office has advised that a parallel criminal investigation is open, although no subjects or targets of the investigation have been identified.
The Greek government disputed the contract balance owed to the Company and has not paid the Company's final invoice.
In January 2017, the U.S. District Court granted an order to enforce the arbitration award and entered judgment in the Company's favor, converting the award to U.S. dollars.
The U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C.
Circuit subsequently ruled that the district court judgment should instead reflect the currency in which it was originally awarded.
Separately, the Greek government has sought to annul the award through separate litigation in the Greek courts, and such a challenge is currently pending.
The court subsequently awarded an additional sum of over $96 million for costs, attorneys' fees, and interest, bringing the total award to VirnetX in the Apple I case to over $439 million.
Apple has filed an appeal of the judgment in the Apple I case with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.
The Company does not have any assets or liabilities recorded in connection with this matter as of June 29, 2018.
Indirect cost audits by the DCAA remain open for fiscal 2014 and subsequent years for Leidos, Inc., and fiscal 2012 and subsequent years for Leidos Innovations.
The Company has outstanding letters of credit of $93 million as of June 29, 2018, principally related to performance guarantees on contracts.
The Company also has outstanding surety bonds with net exposure of $123 million, principally related to performance and subcontractor payment bonds on the Company's contracts.
The outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds have various terms with the majority expiring over the next four fiscal years.
On January 24, 2018, the Company entered into a lease agreement with its current lessor for office space in a building to be constructed which will function as the Company's new corporate headquarters in Reston, Virginia.
The Company will occupy the space for an initial term of 148 months and rent expense will be $11 million for the first lease year, with an annual rent expense increase of 2.5%.
The Company currently expects construction to be completed and to take occupancy of the building by April 1, 2020, at which point the Company's lease agreements for its current corporate headquarters will terminate.
On July 12, 2018, Leidos and Plainfield entered into an amendment to the Note, allowing Plainfield to defer the maturity of the Note until the earlier of August 24, 2018, or the date Plainfield successfully closes on a refinancing agreement with a third party.
On July 23, 2018, the Company entered into a Contract of Sale to sell and leaseback one of its properties included within Corporate.
The sale is expected to be completed during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 at which time the leaseback term will begin.
The term of the lease is expected to end during fiscal 2020.
Item 1A.
