Financial Statements.
The Company has a controlling interest in Mission Support Alliance, LLC ("MSA"), a joint venture with Centerra Group, LLC.
As a result, Leidos increased its controlling ownership in MSA from 47% to 88%.
The Company consolidates the financial results for MSA into its unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements also include the balances of all voting interest entities in which Leidos has a controlling voting interest ("subsidiaries") and a variable interest entity ("VIE") in which Leidos is the primary beneficiary.
The consolidated balances of the Company’s VIE are not material to the Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for the periods presented.
Intercompany accounts and transactions between consolidated companies have been eliminated in consolidation.
Certain disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules.
Comparative information for the prior fiscal year has not been retrospectively adjusted.
Effective the beginning of fiscal 2019, certain contracts were reassigned between the Civil and Defense Solutions reportable segments (see "Note 19–Business Segments").
Certain amounts in the prior year financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
The Company also separately disclosed "Bad debt expense" on the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows.
In the opinion of management, the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements reflect all adjustments, which consist of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation thereof.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU 2016-02 ("ASC 842"), which supersedes the lease guidance under Leases (Topic 840) and makes several changes, such as requiring an entity to recognize a right-of-use ("ROU") asset and corresponding lease obligation on the balance sheet, classified as financing or operating, as appropriate.
The update is effective for public companies for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and should be adopted under the modified retrospective approach.
The Company did not elect the hindsight practical expedient to determine the lease term for existing leases and in assessing impairment for the ROU assets.
The Company also applies a single discount rate to a portfolio of leased assets with similar durations.
Comparative information for the prior fiscal year has not been retrospectively adjusted.
As a result of the adoption of the new standard, the Company recorded $433 million and $486 million of ROU assets and lease liabilities, respectively, primarily due to its operating leases, to the Company's consolidated balance sheets.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, which eliminates the requirement that a credit loss on a financial instrument be "probable" prior to recognition.
The update is effective for public companies for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2019, and should be adopted using a modified retrospective approach, which applies a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the first reporting period in which the guidance is effective.
A prospective approach is required for debt securities for which an other-than-temporary impairment had been recognized before the effective date and loans and debt securities acquired with deteriorated credit quality.
In November 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-19 "Codification Improvements to Topic 326, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses" to add clarity to certain areas within ASU 2016-13.
The Company is evaluating the impacts that this standard update will have on certain financial assets, including trade receivables, note receivables and receivables on sales-type leases.
The Company has facilities and equipment lease arrangements.
ROU assets represent the Company’s right to use an underlying asset over the lease term and lease liabilities represent its obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
ROU assets and lease liabilities are recorded on the consolidated balance sheet at lease commencement date based on the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term.
As the Company generally does not know the implicit rate for its leases, the discount rate used is the Company’s incremental borrowing rate which is determined based on the rate of interest that the Company would have to pay to borrow an amount equal to the lease payments on a collateralized basis over a similar term.
An ROU asset is initially measured by the present value of the remaining lease payments, plus initial direct costs and prepaid lease payments, less any lease incentives received before commencement.
The remaining lease cost is allocated over the remaining lease term on a straight-line basis unless another systematic or rational basis is more representative of the pattern in which the underlying asset is expected to be used.
ROU assets are evaluated for impairment in a manner consistent with the treatment of other long-lived assets.
The Company's leases may also include variable lease payments such as an escalation clause based on consumer price index rates, maintenance costs and utilities.
Variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate are included in the determination of ROU assets and lease liabilities using the index or rate at the lease commencement date, whereas variable lease payments that do not depend on an index or rate are recorded as lease expense in the period incurred.
At September 27, 2019, the Company did not have any lease agreements with residual value guarantees.
As a result of the adoption of ASC 842, the Company elected to not separate non-lease components from lease components and instead account for both components as a single lease.
The related lease payments on the Company’s short-term facilities and equipment leases are recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The Company is a lessor on certain equipment sales-type and operating lease arrangements with its customers.
Certain arrangements may contain variable payments that depend on an index or rate and are measured using the index or rate on the commencement date.
Arrangements may also contain options to renew or extend the performance period.
Option periods are included in the lease term if the Company determines that it is reasonably certain the customer will exercise an option.
The Company has arrangements that contain both lease and non-lease components.
The Company will account for them as one unit of account if the timing and pattern of transfer is identical for both the lease and the non-lease components and the lease component would be classified as an operating lease if accounted for separately.
If both criteria are met and the predominant component is a lease, then the entire arrangement will be accounted for in accordance with ASC 842.
The impact on diluted earnings per share ("EPS") attributable to Leidos common stockholders is calculated using the Company's statutory tax rate.
Revenue recognized from performance obligations satisfied in previous periods was $17 million and $36 million for the quarter and nine months ended September 27, 2019, respectively and $18 million and $84 million for the quarter and nine months ended September 28, 2018, respectively.
The Company's cash equivalents are primarily comprised of investments in several large institutional money market accounts, with original maturity of three months or less.
At September 27, 2019 and December 28, 2018, the Company included $33 million and $56 million, respectively, of outstanding payments within "Cash and cash equivalents."
On January 24, 2018, the Company entered into a lease agreement with its current lessor for office space in a building to be constructed to function as the Company's new corporate headquarters in Reston, Virginia.
The Company will occupy the space for an initial term of 148 months and rent expense will be $11 million for the first lease year, with an annual rent expense increase of 2.5%.
The Company currently expects construction to be completed and to take occupancy of the building by April 1, 2020, at which point the Company's lease agreements for its current corporate headquarters will terminate.
During the quarter and nine months ended September 28, 2018, the Company had $40 million and $120 million of net rental expense, respectively.
As of September 27, 2019, the Company had a total net investment in sales-type leases, which relates to lease payment receivables, of $56 million.
The Company disaggregates revenues by customer-type, contract-type and geographic location for each of its reportable segments.
Prior year amounts have been recast for the contracts that were reassigned between the Defense Solutions and Civil reportable segments (see "Note 19–Business Segments").
The majority of the Company's revenues are generated from U.S. government contracts, either as a prime contractor or as a subcontractor to other contractors.
For the quarter and nine months ended September 27, 2019, revenues exclude $58 million and $88 million, respectively, recognized under ASC 842.
Contract assets consist of unbilled receivables, which is the amount of revenue recognized that exceeds the amount billed to the customer, where right to payment is not just subject to the passage of time.
The decrease in unbilled receivables was primarily due to the timing of revenue recognized on certain contracts.
The increase in deferred revenue was primarily due to the timing of advance payments from customers offset by revenue recognized during the period.
Revenue recognized for the quarter and nine months ended September 27, 2019 of $11 million and $200 million, respectively, was included as a contract liability at December 28, 2018.
Revenue recognized for the quarter and nine months ended September 28, 2018 of $37 million and $164 million, respectively, was included as a contract liability at December 30, 2017 (date of adoption).
On August 15, 2019, the Company completed the acquisition of IMX Medical Management Services, Inc. and its affiliated businesses ("IMX") for preliminary purchase consideration of $95 million, which primarily included $90 million of cash paid and an additional $4 million paid to extinguish IMX's existing term loans and credit facility balances.
The acquisition extends the Company's independent medical evaluation coverage area for commercial and federal customers.
The intangible assets primarily consist of $41 million for customer relationships.
On September 12, 2019, the Company's Health segment disposed of its health staff augmentation business that was primarily focused on implementation and optimization services to hospital customers.
This disposition did not meet the criteria to be classified as a discontinued operation in the Company's financial statements.
On February 20, 2019, the Company's Civil segment disposed of its commercial cybersecurity business in order to focus on providing solutions, including cybersecurity, to the Company's core markets of governments and highly regulated industries.
During the quarter ended June 28, 2019, working capital adjustments were finalized, resulting in a final sales price of $166 million.
The Company recorded a pre-tax gain on sale of $87 million, net of assets divested of $69 million and $10 million in transaction related costs.
This disposition did not meet the criteria to be classified as a discontinued operation in the Company's financial statements.
The goodwill balances at September 27, 2019, December 28, 2018, and December 29, 2017 included accumulated goodwill impairment losses of $369 million and $117 million within the Health and Civil segments, respectively.
Effective the beginning of fiscal 2019, the Company changed the composition of its Defense Solutions reportable segment, which resulted in the identification of new operating segments and reporting units within Defense Solutions.
In addition, certain contracts were reassigned between Civil and Defense solutions reportable segments (see "Note 19–Business Segments").
Consequently, the carrying amount of goodwill was re-allocated among the reporting units for the purpose of testing goodwill for impairment.
In conjunction with the changes mentioned above, the Company evaluated goodwill for impairment using a quantitative step one analysis, both before and after the changes were made, and determined that goodwill was not impaired.
There were no goodwill impairments during the nine months ended September 27, 2019 and September 28, 2018.
Amortization expense was $43 million and $129 million, for the quarter and nine months ended September 27, 2019, respectively, and $50 million and $151 million for the quarter and nine months ended September 28, 2018, respectively.
Customer relationships are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
Depreciation expense was $16 million and $45 million for the quarter and nine months ended September 27, 2019, respectively, and $14 million and $42 million for the quarter and nine months ended September 28, 2018, respectively.
On December 31, 2018, the Company closed the sale and leaseback agreement relating to its land and building in Gaithersburg, MD.
The Company received proceeds of $31 million, net of selling costs for the property, which had a carrying value of $31 million.
The term of the lease is expected to end during fiscal 2020.
During the quarter ended March 30, 2018, an impairment charge of $7 million associated with this property was recorded within Corporate.
The carrying value of the land and buildings was $14 million.
The term of the lease is expected to end during fiscal 2036.
Under ASC 842, the transaction qualified as a sale-leaseback and consequently the debt of $79 million and the carrying value of the property of $14 million, net of the related tax impact of $17 million, were reclassified into retained earnings as a cumulative effect adjustment.
The proceeds received in fiscal 2019 were recorded as investing activities on the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows.
The accounting guidance for fair value measurements requires that the Company maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs in determining fair value.
The Company has not made fair value option elections on any of its financial assets and liabilities.
The Company's derivatives consisted of the fair value interest rate swaps on its $450 million, fixed rate 4.45% senior secured notes maturing in December 2020 and cash flow interest rate swaps on $1.5 billion of the Company's variable rate senior secured term loans (see "Note 13–Derivative Instruments").
The fair value of the fair value interest rate swaps and cash flow interest rate swaps is determined based on observed values for underlying interest rates on the LIBOR yield curve and the underlying interest rate, respectively (Level 2 inputs).
The carrying amounts of the Company's financial instruments, other than derivatives, which include cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued expenses, are reasonable estimates of their related fair values.
The carrying value of the Company's note receivable of $25 million and $24 million as of September 27, 2019, and December 28, 2018, respectively, approximates fair value as the stated interest rate within the agreement is consistent with current market rates used in notes with similar terms in the market (Level 2 inputs).
As of September 27, 2019, and December 28, 2018, the fair value of debt was $3.1 billion and the carrying amount was $3.0 billion and $3.1 billion, respectively (see "Note 14–Debt").
The fair value of long-term debt is determined based on current interest rates available for debt with terms and maturities similar to the Company’s existing debt arrangements (Level 2 inputs).
On August 15, 2019, the Company recorded non-financial instruments measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis in connection with the acquisition of IMX (see "Note 7–Acquisitions").
The preliminary fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed were determined using Level 3 inputs.
As of September 27, 2019, the Company did not have any assets or liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis.
The Company manages its risk to changes in interest rates through the use of derivative instruments.
For fixed rate borrowings, the Company uses variable interest rate swaps, effectively converting fixed rate borrowings to variable rate borrowings.
These swaps are designated as fair value hedges.
For variable rate borrowings, the Company uses fixed interest rate swaps, effectively converting a portion of the variable interest rate payments to fixed interest rate payments.
These swaps are designated as cash flow hedges.
Under the terms of the interest rate swap agreements, the Company will receive semi-annual interest payments at the coupon rate of 4.45% and will pay variable interest based on the six-month LIBOR rate.
The interest rate swaps were accounted for as a fair value hedge of the Notes and qualified for the shortcut method of hedge accounting, which allows for the assumption of no ineffectiveness.
The resulting changes in the fair value of the interest rate swaps are fully offset by the changes in the fair value of the underlying debt (the hedged item) (See "Note 14–Debt").
The fair value of the Notes is stated at an amount that reflects changes in the six-month LIBOR rate subsequent to the inception of the interest rate swaps through the reporting date.
The Company has interest rate swap agreements to hedge the cash flows of a portion of its variable rate senior secured term loans (the "Variable Rate Loans").
Under the terms of the interest rate swap agreements, the Company will receive monthly variable interest payments based on the one-month LIBOR rate and will pay interest at a fixed rate.
In February 2018, the Company entered into interest rate swap agreements to hedge the cash flows of an additional $250 million of its Variable Rate Loans.
The interest rate swap agreements on $1.1 billion of the Company's Variable Rate Loans had a maturity date of December 2021 and a fixed interest rate of 1.08%.
The interest rate swap agreements on $300 million and $250 million of the Company's Variable Rate Loans both had a maturity date of August 2022 and fixed interest rates of 1.66% and 2.59%, respectively.
In September 2018, the Company terminated its existing interest rate swaps.
The interest rate on the Company's senior secured term loans is determined based on the LIBOR rate plus a margin.
The margin for the Term Loan A loans ranges from 1.25% to 2.00%, depending on the Company's senior secured leverage ratio, and is computed on a quarterly basis.
At September 27, 2019, the current margin on Term Loan A was 1.50% and the margin on Term Loan B was 1.75%.
The Company made principal payments on its long-term debt of $2 million and $50 million during the quarter and nine months ended September 27, 2019, respectively, and $15 million and $59 million during the quarter and nine months ended September 28, 2018, respectively.
There were no principal payments on the Company's senior secured term loans for the quarter ended September 27, 2019.
In April 2018, the Company made a required debt prepayment of $10 million on its senior secured term loans.
The prepayment was a result of the annual excess cash flow calculation clause in the Company's credit agreements.
The Company has a revolving credit facility providing up to $750 million in secured borrowing capacity at interest rates determined based upon the LIBOR rate plus a margin that is subject to step-down provisions based on the Company's senior secured leverage ratio.
As of September 27, 2019, and December 28, 2018, there were no borrowings outstanding under the credit facility.
Amortization of the debt discount and deferred debt issuance costs related to the senior secured term loans and notes, unsecured notes and revolving credit facility was $2 million and $7 million for the quarter and nine months ended September 27, 2019, respectively, and $2 million and $8 million for the quarter and nine months ended September 28, 2018, respectively.
The Company was in compliance with all covenants as of September 27, 2019.
Reclassifications from unrecognized gain (loss) on derivative instruments are recorded in "Interest expense, net" in the Company's condensed consolidated statements of income.
Anti-dilutive stock-based awards are excluded from the weighted average number of shares outstanding used to compute diluted EPS.
On February 21, 2019, the Company entered into an Accelerated Share Repurchase ("ASR") agreement with a financial institution to repurchase shares of its outstanding common stock.
During the quarter ended March 29, 2019, the Company paid $200 million to the financial institution and received an initial delivery of 2.6 million shares.
The total number of shares that the Company received under the ASR agreement was based on the volume-weighted-average-price of $63.52 per share for the period February 21, 2019 to April 29, 2019.
All shares delivered were immediately retired.
On August 1, 2019, the Company entered into an ASR agreement with a financial institution to repurchase shares of its outstanding common stock.
During the quarter ended September 27, 2019, the Company paid $200 million to the financial institution and received 2.4 million shares related to the ASR agreement.
All shares delivered were immediately retired.
During the quarter and nine months ended September 28, 2018, the Company made open market repurchases of its common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $62 million and $162 million, respectively.
All shares repurchased were immediately retired.
See "Note 4–Leases" for additional supplementary cash flow information related to the Company's leases.
The restricted cash is recorded within "Other current assets" in the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets.
The restricted cash is primarily comprised of advances from customers that are restricted as to use for certain expenditures related to that customer's contract.
The increase in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the recording of a valuation allowance related to foreign tax credits in the current quarter and a release of a valuation allowance related to the utilization of a capital loss carryforward in the prior year quarter.
For the nine months ended September 27, 2019, the effective tax rate was 23.5% compared to 14.3% for the nine months ended September 28, 2018.
Additionally, during the prior year, tax benefits were recognized related to the anticipated sale of the Company's commercial cybersecurity business and the release of a valuation allowance related to the utilization of a capital loss carryforward.
The Company's operations and reportable segments are organized around the markets served and the nature of the products and services provided to customers in those markets.
The Company defines its reportable segments based on the way the chief operating decision maker ("CODM"), currently its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, manages the operations of the Company for purposes of allocating resources and assessing performance.
Effective the beginning of fiscal 2019, the Company changed the composition of its Defense Solutions reportable segment to better align the operations within the reportable segment to the customers it serves.
In addition, certain contracts were reassigned between the Civil and Defense Solutions reportable segments.
As such, the company does not separately disclose depreciation expense on the condensed consolidated statements of income.
Asset information by segment is not a key measure of performance used by the CODM.
On November 10, 2015, MSA received a final decision by the Department of Energy ("DoE") contracting officer for the Mission Support Contract concluding that certain payments to MSA by the DoE for the performance of IT services by Lockheed Martin Services, Inc. ("LMSI") under a subcontract to MSA constituted alleged affiliate fees in violation of Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR").
Lockheed Martin Integrated Technology LLC (now known as Leidos Integrated Technology LLC) is a member entity of MSA.
Subsequent to the contracting officer's final decision, MSA, LMSI, and Lockheed Martin Corporation received notice from the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of Washington that the U.S. government had initiated a False Claims Act investigation into the facts surrounding this dispute, and each of MSA, LMSI and Lockheed Martin Corporation have produced information in response to Civil Investigative Demands from the U.S. Attorney's Office.
On February 8, 2019, the U.S. Attorney's office filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Washington against MSA, Lockheed Martin Corporation, Lockheed Martin Services, Inc. and a Lockheed Martin employee.
The U.S. Attorney's office had previously advised that a parallel criminal investigation was open, although no subjects or targets of the investigation had been identified.
The U.S. Attorney's office has informed MSA that it has closed the criminal investigation.
The Greek government disputed the contract balance owed to the Company and withheld payment.
In 2013, the Company received an arbitral award by the International Chamber of Commerce.
In 2017, the U.S. District Court granted an order to enforce the arbitration award and entered judgment in the Company's favor.
The Company subsequently commenced enforcement proceedings against the Greek government.
On September 10, 2019, the Company received $59 million on behalf of Leidos and its subcontractors, substantially, though not entirely, resolving the Company’s claim.
The Company is a party to an arbitration proceeding involving a claim by Lockheed Martin for indemnification for $56 million in taxes attributable to deferred revenue recognized as a result of the Transactions.
The court subsequently awarded an additional sum of over $96 million for costs, attorneys' fees, and interest, bringing the total award to VirnetX in the Apple I case to over $439 million.
Apple appealed the judgment in the Apple I case with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit and on January 15, 2019, the court affirmed the $439 million judgment.
On August 1, 2019, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit denied Apple’s petition for panel and en banc rehearing, but Apple subsequently filed motions to stay and vacate the judgment, and for leave to file a second petition for rehearing.
These motions were denied by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit on October 1, 2019.
It is expected that Apple will file a petition for a writ of certiorari with the Supreme Court of the United States in connection with the Apple I case.
On April 11, 2018, in a second phase of the Apple II trial, the jury found Apple's infringement to be willful.
The court also denied Apple’s motions for judgment as a matter of law and for a new trial.
An additional sum of over $93 million for costs and pre-judgment interest was subsequently agreed upon pursuant to a court order, bringing the total award to VirnetX in the Apple II case to over $595 million.
Apple has filed an appeal of the judgment in the Apple II case with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.
As of September 27, 2019, the Company believes it has adequately reserved for potential adjustments from audits or reviews of contract costs.
In February 2019, the Company executed an external restructuring advance agreement with the DoD in accordance with provisions of the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement, which allows the Company to recover certain specified external restructuring costs.
On January 24, 2018, the Company entered into a lease agreement with its current lessor for office space in a building to be constructed to function as the Company's new corporate headquarters in Reston, VA (see "Note 4–Leases").
On December 31, 2018, the Company closed the sale and leaseback agreement relating to its land and building in Gaithersburg, MD.
On December 28, 2018, the Company closed the sales and leaseback agreement relating to two buildings and the adjacent land in San Diego, CA (see "Note 11–Property, Plant and Equipment").
On September 30, 2019, the Company paid its $48 million dividend for the quarter ended September 27, 2019.
Item 1A.
