Unless indicated otherwise, references in this report to the "Company," "we," "us" and "our" refer collectively to Leidos and its consolidated subsidiaries.
During the three and nine months ended September 28, 2018, we generated approximately 85% of our total revenues from contracts with the U.S. government.
Accordingly, our business performance is affected by the overall level of U.S. government spending, especially on national security, homeland security and intelligence, and the alignment of our service and product offerings and capabilities with current and future budget priorities of the U.S. government.
On March 23, 2018, Congress passed and the President signed into law the Omnibus Appropriations Bill thereby funding the federal government through the end of the 2018 government fiscal year ("GFY").
The appropriations legislation passed earlier in the year suspended budget caps and included a two-year budget agreement that provided $300 billion in sequestration relief for defense and non-defense spending.
Defense programs saw additional funding of $80 billion and $85 billion in GFY 2018 and GFY 2019, respectively, and non-defense spending increased by $63 billion and $68 billion in GFY 2018 and GFY 2019, respectively, over the caps established in the Budget Control Act of 2011.
In September 2018, Congress passed and the President signed a second consolidated appropriations bill funding the Departments of Defense, Labor and Health and Human Services for the full GFY 2019.
Earlier in the year, funding for the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Energy as well as funding for Congress were also enacted.
All were funded at increased levels from the previous year.
There are now seven appropriations bills operating under a continuing resolution, which will expire on December 7, 2018.
Sales to customers in international markets represented approximately 9% of total revenues for both the three and nine months ended September 28, 2018.
Our international business increases our exposure to international markets and the associated international regulatory and geopolitical risks.
We incurred integration costs of $4 million and $26 million during the three and nine months ended September 28, 2018, respectively, and $21 million and $55 million during the three and nine months ended September 29, 2017, respectively.
The primary financial performance measures we use to manage our business and monitor results of operations are revenue, operating income, cash flows from operations and diluted earnings per share.
The increase in revenues in constant currency(1) for the three months ended September 28, 2018, was 3.2%, as compared to an actual increase in revenues of 2.9%.
The adverse foreign currency impact was primarily attributable to our Australia business in the Defense Solutions segment.
The decrease in revenues in constant currency for the nine months ended September 28, 2018, was 1.6%, as compared to an actual decrease in revenues of 1.4%.
The foreign currency benefit was mainly attributable to our U.K. business in the Civil segment.
The increase in revenues for the three months ended September 28, 2018, as compared to the three months ended September 29, 2017, was primarily attributable to new awards and timing of revenue recognition on certain contracts, partially offset by the completion of certain contracts.
The decrease in revenues for the nine months ended September 28, 2018, as compared to the nine months ended September 29, 2017, was primarily attributable to the completion of certain contracts, a net decrease in program volumes and timing of revenue recognition on certain contracts, partially offset by new awards.
The increase in operating income for the nine months ended September 28, 2018, as compared to the nine months ended September 29, 2017, was primarily due to lower amortization, net profit write-downs in the prior year and new awards, partially offset by the completion of certain contracts.
The increase in revenues for the three months ended September 28, 2018, as compared to the three months ended September 29, 2017, was primarily attributable to new awards, a net increase in program volumes and higher net profit write-ups in the current year quarter, partially offset by the completion of certain contracts.
The decrease in revenues for the nine months ended September 28, 2018, as compared to the nine months ended September 29, 2017, was primarily attributable to the completion of certain contracts and a net decrease in program volumes, partially offset by new awards, the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates due to the movement of the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the British pound and higher net profit write-ups in the current year.
The increase in operating income for the three months ended September 28, 2018, as compared to the three months ended September 29, 2017, was primarily due to lower amortization, higher net profit write-ups in the quarter and new awards, partially offset by the completion of certain contracts.
The increase in operating income for the nine months ended September 28, 2018, as compared to the nine months ended September 29, 2017, was primarily due to lower amortization, an increase in new awards, higher net profit write-ups and a decrease in bad debt expense, partially offset by a net decrease in program volumes.
The decrease in revenues for the three and nine months ended September 28, 2018, as compared to the three and nine months ended September 29, 2017, was primarily attributable to the completion of certain contracts and a lower level of commercial health revenues, partially offset by a net increase in program volumes.
The decrease in operating loss for the three months ended September 28, 2018, as compared to the three months ended September 29, 2017, was primarily attributable to lower integration and restructuring costs of $20 million, partially offset by higher general and administrative expenses.
The decrease in operating loss for the nine months ended September 28, 2018, as compared to the nine months ended September 29, 2017, was primarily attributable to lower integration and restructuring costs of $49 million, partially offset by an asset impairment charge of $7 million and higher general and administrative expenses.
For the three months ended September 28, 2018, our effective tax rate was 13.5% compared to 31.9% for the three months ended September 29, 2017.
For the nine months ended September 28, 2018, our effective tax rate was 14.3% compared to 30.1% for the nine months ended September 29, 2017.
The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the Tax Act's reduction of the U.S. federal statutory rate, certain tax benefits related to the anticipated sale of our commercial cybersecurity business and a release of the valuation allowance related to capital loss carryforward utilization, partially offset by a decrease in tax benefits related to employee stock awards.
Total backlog at September 28, 2018 included an adverse impact of $94 million when compared to total backlog at December 29, 2017, due to exchange rate movements in the British pound and Australian dollar when compared to the U.S. dollar.
Our total backlog consists of remaining performance obligations (see "Note 4–Revenues") and unexercised option periods.
As of September 28, 2018, we had $515 million in cash and cash equivalents.
During the nine months ended September 28, 2018, there were no borrowings outstanding under the credit facility and we were in compliance with related financial covenants.
At September 28, 2018, and December 29, 2017, we had outstanding debt of $3.0 billion and $3.1 billion, respectively.
We made required quarterly principal payments on our senior secured term loans of $15 million and $46 million during the three and nine months ended September 28, 2018, respectively, and $20 million and $61 million during the three and nine months ended September 29, 2017, respectively.
In April 2018, we made a required debt prepayment of $10 million on our senior secured term loans.
The prepayment was a result of the annual excess cash flow calculation clause in our credit agreements.
In addition to the required payments on our term loans, we prepaid $105 million and $130 million during the three and nine months ended September 29, 2017, respectively.
The notes outstanding as of September 28, 2018, contain financial covenants and customary restrictive covenants.
We were in compliance with all covenants as of September 28, 2018.
For the next 12 months, we anticipate that we will be able to meet our liquidity needs, including servicing our debt, through cash generated from operations, available cash balances and, if needed, borrowings from our revolving credit facility.
Net cash provided by operating activities increased $104 million for the three months ended September 28, 2018, when compared to the prior year quarter, primarily due to $60 million of proceeds received from the termination of interest rate swaps and lower payments for taxes and integration and restructuring costs.
Net cash provided by investing activities increased $34 million for the three months ended September 28, 2018, when compared to the prior year quarter, primarily due to $40 million of proceeds from settlement of a promissory note, partially offset by higher purchases of property, plant and equipment.
This was partially offset by $135 million of lower debt payments.
We also have letters of credit outstanding principally related to performance guarantees on contracts and surety bonds outstanding principally related to performance and payment bonds as described in "Note 21–Commitments" of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements contained within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
For a discussion of these items, see "Note 20–Contingencies" and "Note 21–Commitments" of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements contained within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Our revenues from contracts with customers are from offerings including cybersecurity; data analytics; enterprise IT modernization; operations and logistics; sensors, collection and phenomenology; software development; and systems engineering, primarily with the U.S. government and its agencies.
Most of our contracts are comprised of multiple promises including the design and build of software-based systems, integration of hardware and software solutions, running and maintaining of IT infrastructure and procurement services.
We generally separate multiple promises in a contract as separate performance obligations if those promises are distinct, both individually and in the context of the contract.
If multiple promises in a contract are highly interrelated or require significant integration or customization within a group, they are combined and accounted for as a single performance obligation.
Our contracts with the U.S. government often contain options to renew existing contracts for an additional period of time (generally a year at a time) under the same terms and conditions as the original contract, and generally do not provide the customer any material rights under the contract.
We account for renewal options as separate contracts when they include distinct goods or services at standalone selling prices.
Contracts with the U.S. government are subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulation ("FAR") and priced on estimated or actual costs of providing the goods or services.
The FAR provides guidance on types of costs that are allowable in establishing prices for goods and services provided to the U.S. government and its agencies.
Each contract is competitively priced and bid separately.
Pricing for non-U.S. government agencies and commercial customers is based on specific negotiations with each customer.
We exclude any taxes collected or imposed when determining the transaction price.
Certain of our cost-plus and fixed-price contracts contain award fees, incentive fees or other provisions that may either increase or decrease the transaction price.
These variable amounts generally are awarded upon achievement of certain performance metrics, program milestones or cost targets and can be based upon customer discretion.
We allocate the transaction price of a contract to our performance obligations in the proportion of its respective standalone selling prices.
The standalone selling price of our performance obligations is generally based on an expected cost-plus margin approach, in accordance with the FAR.
For certain product sales, we use prices from other standalone sales.
Substantially all of our contracts do not contain a significant financing component, which would require an adjustment to the transaction price of the contract.
We recognize revenue on our service based contracts primarily over time as there is continuous transfer of control to the customer over the duration of the contract as we perform the promised services.
For U.S. government contracts, continuous transfer of control to the customer is evidenced by clauses in the contract that allow the customer to unilaterally terminate the contract for convenience, pay for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit and take control of any work-in-process.
Anticipated losses on service based contracts are recognized as incurred.
In such cases, we recognize revenue on a net basis.
We do not incur significant incremental costs to acquire contracts.
Contract costs incurred for U.S. government contracts, including indirect costs, are subject to audit and adjustment by the Defense Contract Audit Agency.
For a discussion of these items, see "Note 2–Accounting Standards" of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements contained within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
In February 2018, our Board of Directors authorized a new share repurchase program of up to 20 million shares of our outstanding common stock.
The shares may be repurchased from time to time in one or more open market repurchases or privately negotiated transactions, including accelerated share repurchase transactions.
This share repurchase authorization replaces the previous share repurchase authorization announced in December 2013.
