Unless indicated otherwise, references in this report to the "Company," "we," "us" and "our" refer collectively to Leidos and its consolidated subsidiaries.
U.S. Government Markets
During the three and six months ended June 29, 2018, we generated approximately 85% of our total revenues from contracts with the U.S. government.
Accordingly, our business performance is affected by the overall level of U.S. government spending, especially on national security, homeland security and intelligence, and the alignment of our service and product offerings and capabilities with current and future budget priorities of the U.S. government.
On March 23, 2018, Congress passed and the President signed into law the Omnibus Appropriations Bill thereby funding the federal government through the end of the 2018 government fiscal year ("GFY").
All 12 Appropriations bills were funded and no federal department or agency is now operating under a continuing resolution.
The appropriations legislation passed earlier in the year suspended budget caps and included a two-year budget agreement that provides $300 billion in sequestration relief for defense and non-defense spending.
Defense programs will see additional funding of $80 billion and $85 billion in GFY 2018 and GFY 2019, respectively, and non-defense spending will increase by $63 billion and $68 billion in GFY 2018 and GFY 2019, respectively, over the caps established in the Budget Control Act of 2011.
Sales to customers in international markets represented approximately 9% of total revenues for both the three and six months ended June 29, 2018.
Our international business increases our exposure to international markets and the associated international regulatory and geopolitical risks.
The primary financial performance measures we use to manage our business and monitor results of operations are revenue, operating income, cash flows from operations and diluted earnings per share.
The decrease in revenues in constant currency(1) for the three and six months ended June 29, 2018, was 1.8% and 3.7%, respectively, as compared to actual decreases in revenues of 1.6% and 3.5%, respectively.
The foreign currency benefit was mainly attributable to our U.K. business in the Civil segment.
The decrease in revenues for the six months ended June 29, 2018, as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2017, was primarily attributable to the completion of certain contracts, timing of revenue recognition on certain contracts and net volume decreases, partially offset by new awards and improved program performance.
The increase in operating income for the three and six months ended June 29, 2018, as compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, was due to lower intangible asset amortization, improved program performance and lower general and administrative expenses, partially offset by completed contracts.
The decrease in revenues for the three and six months ended June 29, 2018, as compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, was primarily attributable to the completion and reduced scope of certain contracts and a net decrease in program volumes, partially offset by new awards and the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates due to the movement of the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the British pound.
The decrease in operating income for the three months ended June 29, 2018, as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2017, was primarily due to higher profit write-ups in the prior year quarter, reduced scope and the completion of certain contracts, partially offset by lower amortization and a decrease in bad debt expense.
The increase in operating income for the six months ended June 29, 2018, as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2017, was primarily due to lower amortization, a decrease in bad debt expense and an increase in new awards, partially offset by reduced scope in the current year and higher profit write-ups in the prior year on certain contracts.
The decrease in revenues for the three and six months ended June 29, 2018, as compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, was primarily attributable to the completion of certain contracts, partially offset by net volume increases.
The decrease in operating income for the three and six months ended June 29, 2018, as compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, was primarily due to the completion of certain contracts and higher intangible asset amortization, partially offset by net volume increases.
The decrease in operating loss for the three months ended June 29, 2018, as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2017, was primarily attributable to lower integration and restructuring costs of $14 million.
For the three months ended June 29, 2018, our effective tax rate was 12.1% compared to 27.4% for the three months ended June 30, 2017.
For the six months ended June 29, 2018, our effective tax rate was 14.8% compared to 29.2% for the six months ended June 30, 2017.
We received net bookings worth an estimated $3.4 billion and $5.9 billion during the three and six months ended June 29, 2018, respectively, compared to $2.7 billion and $4.4 billion for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, respectively.
Total backlog at June 29, 2018 included an adverse impact of $86 million when compared to total backlog at December 29, 2017, due to the exchange rate movements between the U.S. dollar and the British pound.
Our total backlog consists of remaining performance obligations (see "Note 4–Revenues") and unexercised option periods.
As of June 29, 2018, we had $303 million in cash and cash equivalents.
In addition, we have a secured revolving credit facility which can provide up to $750 million in additional borrowing, if required.
During the six months ended June 29, 2018, there were no borrowings outstanding under the credit facility and we were in compliance with related financial covenants.
At June 29, 2018, and December 29, 2017, we had outstanding debt of $3.1 billion.
In April 2018, we made a required debt prepayment of $10 million on our senior secured term loans.
The prepayment was a result of the annual excess cash flow calculation clause in our credit agreements.
In addition to the required payments on our term loans, we prepaid $25 million during the three months ended June 30, 2017.
We were in compliance with all covenants as of June 29, 2018.
For the next 12 months, we anticipate that we will be able to meet our liquidity needs, including servicing our debt, through cash generated from operations, available cash balances and, if needed, borrowings from our revolving credit facility.
Net cash provided by operating activities increased $105 million for the three months ended June 29, 2018, when compared to the prior year quarter, primarily due to the favorable timing of working capital changes including improved collections of receivables and lower payments for taxes, integration and restructuring costs, partially offset by lower advance payments from customers and higher interest payments.
Net cash used in investing activities increased $4 million for the three months ended June 29, 2018, when compared to the prior year quarter, primarily due to proceeds from the sale of a building in the prior year quarter partially offset by lower purchases of property, plant and equipment.
This was partially offset by a reduction in tax withholdings related to the vesting of stock awards.
We also have letters of credit outstanding principally related to performance guarantees on contracts and surety bonds outstanding principally related to performance and payment bonds as described in "Note 21–Commitments" of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements contained within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
For a discussion of these items, see "Note 20–Contingencies" and "Note 21–Commitments" of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements contained within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Our revenues from contracts with customers are from offerings including cybersecurity; data analytics; enterprise IT modernization; operations and logistics; sensors, collection and phenomenology; software development; and systems engineering, primarily with the U.S. government and its agencies.
Most of our contracts comprise multiple promises including the design and build of software-based systems, integration of hardware and software solutions, running and maintaining of IT infrastructure and procurement services.
We generally separate multiple promises in a contract as separate performance obligations if those promises are distinct, both individually and in the context of the contract.
If multiple promises in a contract are highly interrelated or comprise a series of distinct services performed over time, they are combined and accounted for as a single performance obligation.
Our contracts with the U.S. government often contain options to renew existing contracts for an additional period of time (generally a year at a time) under the same terms and conditions as the original contract, and generally do not provide the customer any material rights under the contract.
We account for renewal options as separate contracts when they include distinct goods or services at standalone selling prices.
Contracts with the U.S. government are subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulation ("FAR") and priced on estimated or actual costs of providing the goods or services.
The FAR provides guidance on types of costs that are allowable in establishing prices for goods and services provided to the U.S. government and its agencies.
Each contract is competitively priced and bid separately.
Pricing for non-U.S. government agencies and commercial customers is based on specific negotiations with each customer.
We exclude any taxes collected or imposed when determining the transaction price.
Certain of our cost-plus and fixed-price contracts contain award fees, incentive fees or other provisions that may either increase or decrease the transaction price.
These variable amounts generally are awarded upon achievement of certain performance metrics, program milestones or cost targets and can be based upon customer discretion.
We allocate the transaction price of a contract to our performance obligations in the proportion of its respective standalone selling prices.
The standalone selling price of our performance obligations is generally based on an expected cost-plus margin approach, in accordance with the FAR.
For certain product sales, we use prices from other standalone sales.
Substantially all of our contracts do not contain a significant financing component, which would require an adjustment to the transaction price of the contract.
We recognize revenue on our service based contracts primarily over time as there is continuous transfer of control to the customer over the duration of the contract as we perform the promised services.
For U.S. government contracts, continuous transfer of control to the customer is evidenced by clauses in the contract that allow the customer to unilaterally terminate the contract for convenience, pay for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit and take control of any work-in-process.
In such cases, we recognize revenue on a net basis.
We do not incur significant incremental costs to acquire contracts.
Contract costs incurred for U.S. government contracts, including indirect costs, are subject to audit and adjustment by the Defense Contract Audit Agency.
For a discussion of these items, see "Note 2–Accounting Standards" of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements contained within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
In February 2018, our Board of Directors authorized a new share repurchase program of up to 20 million shares of our outstanding common stock.
The shares may be repurchased from time to time in one or more open market repurchases or privately negotiated transactions, including accelerated share repurchase transactions.
This share repurchase authorization replaces the previous share repurchase authorization announced in December 2013.
