•Our ability to collect accounts receivable.
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this document.
For further details, see the discussion in Note 3 of our condensed consolidated financial statements included in this report. 
As discussed in Item 4 “Controls and Procedures” in this report on Form 10-Q, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019, we identified a material weakness in our internal controls related to accounting for income taxes and we also identified a material weakness in our internal controls related to IT system access. Internal controls related to such matters are important to accurately reflect our financial position and results of operations in our financial reports. We are in the process of remediating the material weaknesses, but our efforts may not be successful. If we are unable to remediate the material weaknesses in an appropriate and timely manner, or if we identify additional control deficiencies that individually or together constitute significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, our ability to accurately record, process, and report financial information and consequently, our ability to prepare financial statements within required time periods, could be adversely affected. Failure to maintain effective internal controls could result in violations of applicable securities laws, stock exchange listing requirements, and the covenants under our debt agreements, subject us to litigation and investigations, negatively affect investor confidence in our financial statements, and adversely impact our stock price and ability to access capital markets. For additional information, refer to Item 4 "Controls and Procedures."
As reported in our March 31, 2019 Form 10-K, we learned of an ongoing compromise of our computer networks by what is believed to be sophisticated hackers. We engaged experienced legal counsel and a leading forensic investigatory firm with experience in such matters. We have taken steps to identify malicious activity on our network including a compromise of our network and, in May 2019, we began implementing a containment plan. We are continuing to evaluate the effectiveness of the containment plan and the amount and content of the information that was compromised and to implement additional remedial actions. At this time, we do not believe that this IT system compromise has had a material adverse effect on our business or resulted in any material damage to us and we do not currently believe that such matters will have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows or results of operations. However, until we complete our evaluation of the amount and type of data that was compromised, there can be no assurance as to what the impact of this IT system compromise will be. 
Our goal is to be a worldwide leader in providing specialized semiconductor products for a wide variety of embedded control applications. Our strategic focus is on embedded control solutions, including general purpose and specialized 8-bit, 16-bit, and 32-bit microcontrollers, 32-bit microprocessors, field-programmable gate array (FPGA) products, a broad spectrum of high-performance linear, mixed-signal, power management, thermal management, discrete diodes and MOSFETS, radio frequency (RF), timing, timing systems, safety, security, wired connectivity and wireless connectivity devices, as well as Serial Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory (EEPROM), Serial Flash memories, Parallel Flash memories, Serial Electrically Erasable Random Access Memory (EERAM) and Serial Static Random Access Memory (SRAM). We also license Flash-IP solutions that are incorporated in a broad range of products. We provide highly cost-effective embedded control solutions that also offer the advantages of small size, high performance, extreme low power usage, wide voltage range operation, mixed signal integration and ease of development, thus enabling timely and cost-effective integration of our solutions by our customers in their end products. We license our SuperFlash technology and other technologies to wafer 
foundries, integrated device manufacturers and design partners throughout the world for use in the manufacture of advanced microcontroller products, gate array, radio frequency (RF) and analog products that require embedded non-volatile memory.
Our manufacturing operations include wafer fabrication, wafer probe and assembly and test. The ownership of a substantial portion of our manufacturing resources is an important component of our business strategy, enabling us to maintain a high level of manufacturing control resulting in us being one of the lowest cost producers in the embedded control industry. By owning wafer fabrication facilities and assembly and test operations, and by employing statistical process control techniques, we have been able to achieve and maintain high production yields. Direct control over manufacturing resources allows us to shorten our design and production cycles. This control also allows us to capture a portion of the wafer manufacturing and the assembly and test profit margin. We do outsource a significant portion of our manufacturing requirements to third parties. Our acquisition of Microsemi significantly increased the amount of our outsourced manufacturing requirements. 
We are committed to continuing our investment in new and enhanced products, including development systems, and in our design and manufacturing process technologies. We believe these investments are significant factors in maintaining our competitive position. Our current research and development activities focus on the design of new microcontrollers, digital signal controllers, memory, analog and mixed-signal products, FPGAs, timing systems, Flash-IP, development systems, software and application-specific software libraries. We are also developing new design and process technologies to achieve further cost reductions and performance improvements in our products. 
Sales to our direct customers are generally governed by a purchase order and an order acknowledgment. Sales to direct customers usually do not meet the definition of a contract, as defined by ASC 606, until shipment of the product occurs. Generally, the transaction price associated with contracts with direct customers is set at the standalone selling price and is not variable. Usually, there is only a single performance obligation in the contract, and therefore the entire transaction price is allocated to the single performance obligation. After the transaction price has been allocated, we recognize revenue when the performance obligation is satisfied. Substantially all of the revenue generated from contracts with direct customers is recognized at the time risk and title of the inventory transfers to the customer.
Revenue generated from our licensees is governed by licensing agreements. Our primary performance obligation related to these agreements is to provide the licensee the right to use the intellectual property. The final transaction price is determined by multiplying the usage of the license by the royalty, which is fixed in the licensing agreement. Revenue is recognized as usage of the license occurs. 
We measure at fair value and recognize compensation expense for all share-based payment awards, including grants of employee stock options, restricted stock units (RSUs) and employee stock purchase rights, to be recognized in our financial statements based on their respective grant date fair values. We utilize RSUs as our primary equity incentive compensation instrument for employees. Share-based compensation cost is measured on the grant date based on the fair market value of our common stock discounted for expected future dividends and is recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service periods. Total share-based compensation expense recognized during the three months ended June 30, 2019 was $40.7 million, of which $35.8 million was reflected in operating expenses and $4.9 million was reflected in cost of sales. Total share-based compensation included in our inventory balance was $13.3 million at June 30, 2019. 
If there are any modifications or cancellations of the underlying unvested securities, we may be required to accelerate, increase or cancel any remaining unearned share-based compensation expense. Future share-based compensation expense and unearned share-based compensation will increase to the extent that we grant additional equity awards to employees or we assume unvested equity awards in connection with acquisitions.
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value using the first-in, first-out method. We write down our inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory in an amount equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated net realizable value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those we projected, additional inventory write-downs may be required. Inventory impairment charges establish a new cost basis for inventory and charges are not subsequently reversed to income even if circumstances later suggest that increased carrying amounts are recoverable. In estimating our inventory obsolescence, we primarily evaluate estimates of demand over a 12-month period and record impairment charges for inventory on hand in excess of the estimated 12-month demand. Estimates for projected 12-month demand are generally based on the average shipments of the prior three-month period, which are then annualized to adjust for any potential seasonality in our business. The estimated 12-month demand is compared to our most recently developed sales forecast to further reconcile the 12-month demand estimate. Management reviews and adjusts the estimates as appropriate based on specific situations. For example, demand can be adjusted up for new products for which historic sales are not representative of future demand. Alternatively, demand can be adjusted down to the extent any existing products are being replaced or discontinued. 
In periods where our production levels are substantially below our normal operating capacity, the reduced production levels of our manufacturing facilities are charged directly to cost of sales. As a result of production being below normal operating levels in our wafer fabrication facilities, approximately $7.3 million was charged to cost of sales in the three months ended June 30, 2019. During the three months ended June 30, 2018, our wafer fabrication facilities and assembly and test facilities operated at normal capacity levels, which we measure as a percentage of the capacity of the installed equipment.
The accounting model as defined in Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 740 related to the valuation of uncertain tax positions requires us to presume that the tax position will be examined by the relevant taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information and that each tax position will be evaluated without consideration of the possibility of offset or aggregation with other positions. The recognition requirement for the liability exists even if we believe the possibility of examination by a taxing authority or discovery of the related risk matters is remote or where we have a long history of the taxing authority not performing an exam or overlooking an issue. We will record an adjustment to a previously recorded position if new information or facts related to the position are identified in a subsequent period. All adjustments to the positions are recorded through the income statement. Generally, adjustments will be recorded in periods subsequent to the initial recognition if the taxing authority has completed an audit of the period that results in the position being effectively settled or if the statute of limitation expires. Due to the inherent uncertainty in the estimation process and in consideration of the criteria of the accounting model, amounts recognized in the financial statements in periods subsequent to the initial recognition may significantly differ from the estimated exposure of the position under the accounting model.
We separately account for the liability and equity components of our senior and junior subordinated convertible debt in a manner that reflects our nonconvertible debt (unsecured debt) borrowing rate when interest cost is recognized. This results in a bifurcation of a component of the debt, classification of that component in equity and the accretion of the resulting discount on the debt to be recognized as part of interest expense in our consolidated statements of income. Lastly, we include the dilutive effect of the shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of the outstanding senior and junior subordinated convertible debt in our diluted income per share calculation regardless of whether the market price triggers or other contingent conversion features have been met. We apply the treasury stock method as we have the intent and have adopted an accounting policy to settle the principal amount of the senior and junior subordinated convertible debentures in cash. This method results in incremental dilutive shares when the average fair value of our common stock for a reporting period exceeds the conversion prices per share and adjusts as dividends are recorded in the future.
We accrue for claims and contingencies when losses become probable and reasonably estimable. As of the end of each applicable reporting period, we review each of our matters and, where it is probable that a liability has been or will be incurred, we accrue for all probable and reasonably estimable losses. Where we can reasonably estimate a range of losses we may incur regarding such a matter, we record an accrual for the amount within the range that constitutes our best estimate. If we can reasonably estimate a range but no amount within the range appears to be a better estimate than any other, we use the amount that is the low end of such range. Contingencies of an acquired company that exist as of the date of the acquisition are measured at fair value if determinable, which generally is based on a probability weighted model. If fair value is not determinable, contingencies of an acquired company are recognized when they become probable and reasonably estimable.
We operate in two industry segments and engage primarily in the design, development, manufacture and sale of semiconductor products as well as the licensing of our SuperFlash and other technologies. We sell our products to distributors and original equipment manufacturers, referred to as OEMs, in a broad range of markets, perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and generally require no collateral. In certain circumstances, a customer's financial condition may require collateral, and, in such cases, the collateral would be typically provided by letters of credit.
•increasing semiconductor content in our customers' products.
Our microcontroller product line represents the largest component of our total net sales. Microcontrollers and associated application development systems accounted for approximately 53.6% of our net sales for the three-month period ended June 30, 2019 compared to approximately 59.6% of our net sales for the three-month period ended June 30, 2018. The decrease is due to adverse demand fluctuations in the markets we serve and our acquisition of Microsemi, whose microcontroller product line accounted for a relatively low percentage of its total net sales.
Net sales of our microcontroller products decreased 2.0% in the three-month period ended June 30, 2019 compared to the three-month period ended June 30, 2018 due primarily to adverse demand fluctuations in the markets we serve and partially offset by our acquisition of Microsemi. 
Sales of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products accounted for approximately 29.2% of our net sales for the three months ended June 30, 2019 compared to approximately 27.4% of our net sales for the three months ended June 30, 2018. The increase is due primarily to our acquisition of Microsemi, whose analog, interface, mixed signal and timing product line accounted for a relatively high percentage of its total net sales.
Net sales of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products increased 16.4% in the three-month period ended June 30, 2019 compared to the three-month period ended June 30, 2018 due primarily to our acquisition of Microsemi. 
Analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products can be proprietary or non-proprietary in nature. Currently, we consider a majority of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products to be proprietary in nature, where prices are relatively stable, similar to the pricing stability experienced in our microcontroller products. The non-proprietary portion of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing business will experience price fluctuations, driven primarily by the current supply and demand for those products. We may be unable to maintain the average selling prices of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products as a result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which would adversely affect our operating results. We anticipate the proprietary portion of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products will increase over time. 
Our FPGA product line was primarily acquired as part of our acquisition of Microsemi on May 29, 2018. Sales of our FPGA products accounted for approximately 6.9% of our net sales for the three-month period ended June 30, 2019 compared to approximately 3.1% of our net sales for the three-month period ended June 30, 2018. This increase is due primarily to our acquisition of Microsemi.
FPGA product pricing has historically been relatively stable because they are proprietary products with significant design in complexity and they are frequently designed into long-lived end applications.
Licensing, memory and other (LMO) includes royalties associated with licenses for the use of our SuperFlash and other technologies, sales of our intellectual property, fees for engineering services, memory products, manufacturing services (wafer foundry and assembly and test subcontracting), legacy application specific integrated circuits, and products for aerospace applications. Revenue from these services and products accounted for approximately 10.3% of our net sales for the three-month period ended June 30, 2019 compared to approximately 9.9% of our net sales for the three-month period ended June 30, 2018.
Distributors accounted for approximately 50% of our net sales in each of the three months ended June 30, 2019 and June 30, 2018. With the exception of Arrow Electronics, our largest distributor, which made up 11% of our net sales, no other distributor or end customer accounted for more than 10% of our net sales in the three months ended June 30, 2019. In the three months ended June 30, 2018, no distributor or end customer accounted for more than 10% of our net sales. Our distributors focus primarily on servicing the product requirements of a broad base of diverse customers. We believe that distributors provide an effective means of reaching this broad and diverse customer base. We believe that customers recognize Microchip for its products and brand name and use distributors as an effective supply channel. 
At June 30, 2019, our distributors maintained 32 days of inventory of our products compared to 35 days at March 31, 2019. Over the past ten fiscal years, the days of inventory maintained by our distributors have fluctuated between approximately 27 days and 47 days. Inventory holding patterns at our distributors may have a material impact on our net sales.
Americas sales include sales to customers in the U.S., Canada, Central America and South America. Sales to foreign customers accounted for approximately 79% of our total net sales in the three months ended June 30, 2019 compared to approximately 83% of our total net sales in the three months ended June 30, 2018. Substantially all of our foreign sales are U.S. dollar denominated. Sales to customers in Asia have generally increased over time due to many of our customers transitioning their manufacturing operations to Asia and growth in demand from the emerging Asian market; however, sales to Asia as a percentage of our total net sales decreased in the period ended June 30, 2019 compared to the period ended June 30, 2018 due to our acquisition of Microsemi, whose sales to customers in Asia accounted for a smaller portion of their total net sales than Microchip's historical business, and to a lesser extent, trade restrictions and changes in tariffs. Sales to customers in the Americas increased as a percentage of total sales in the period ended June 30, 2019 compared to the period ended June 30, 
2018 due to our acquisition of Microsemi, which had more concentration in the aerospace and defense industry in the Americas. Our sales force in the Americas and Europe supports a significant portion of the design activity for products which are ultimately shipped to Asia.
Our gross profit in the three-month period ended June 30, 2019 was $815.2 million, or 61.6% of net sales, compared to $642.0 million, or 52.9% of net sales, in the three-month period ended June 30, 2018. 
•charges of approximately $107.5 million in three months ended June 30, 2018 related to the recognition of acquired inventory at fair value as a result of our acquisition of Microsemi which increased the value of our acquired inventory and subsequently increased our cost of sales and reduced our gross margins when the related revenue was recognized;
•fluctuations in the product mix of microcontrollers, analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products, FPGA products, memory products and technology licensing.
We adjust our wafer fabrication and assembly and test capacity utilization as required to respond to actual and anticipated business and industry-related conditions. When production levels are below normal capacity, which we measure as a percentage of the capacity of the installed equipment, we charge cost of sales for the unabsorbed capacity. During the three months ended June 30, 2019, we operated at below normal capacity levels resulting in an unabsorbed capacity charge of $7.3 million. During three months ended June 30, 2018, our wafer fabrication facilities and assembly and test facilities operated at normal capacity levels.
The process technologies utilized in our wafer fabrication facilities impact our gross margins. Our wafer fabrication facility located in Tempe, Arizona (Fab 2) currently utilizes various manufacturing process technologies, but predominantly utilizes our 0.5 micron to 1.0 micron processes. Our wafer fabrication facility located in Gresham, Oregon (Fab 4) predominantly utilizes our 0.13 micron to 0.5 micron processes. We continue to transition products to more advanced process technologies to reduce future manufacturing costs. All of our production in Fab 2 and Fab 4 has been on 8-inch wafers during the periods covered by this report. We consider normal capacity at Fab 2 and Fab 4 to be 90% to 95%. Our wafer fabrication facility in Colorado Springs, Colorado (Fab 5) currently utilizes processes between 0.25 micron and 1.0 micron that run on 6-inch wafers. We consider normal capacity at Fab 5 to be 70% to 75%.
Our overall inventory levels were $733.1 million at June 30, 2019, compared to $711.7 million at March 31, 2019. We maintained 132 days of inventory on our balance sheet at June 30, 2019 compared to 128 days of inventory at March 31, 2019. We expect our days of inventory levels in the September 2019 quarter to be down five days to up two days compared to the June 2019 levels. We believe our existing level of inventory will allow us to maintain competitive lead times and provide strong delivery performance to our customers.
We operate assembly and test facilities in Thailand, the Philippines, and other locations throughout the world. Approximately 45% of our assembly requirements were performed in our internal assembly facilities in the three months ended June 30, 2019 compared to approximately 39% during the three months ended June 30, 2018. Approximately 54% of our test requirements were performed in our internal test facilities during the three months ended June 30, 2019 compared to 
approximately 52% during the three months ended June 30, 2018. The increases in the percentage of assembly and test operations that were performed internally in the three months ended June 30, 2019 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2018 are primarily due to our investments in assembly and test equipment, which increased our internal capacity capabilities, and also due to adverse demand fluctuations in the markets we serve, which reduced our demand for external assembly and test operations. Third-party contractors located primarily in Asia perform the balance of our assembly and test operations. The percentage of our assembly and test operations that are performed internally fluctuates over time based on supply and demand conditions in the semiconductor industry, our internal capacity capabilities and our acquisition activities. We believe that the assembly and test operations performed at our internal facilities provide us with significant cost savings compared to contractor assembly and test costs, as well as increased control over these portions of the manufacturing process. We plan to continue to transition certain outsourced assembly and test capacity to our internal facilities.
We rely on outside wafer foundries for a significant portion of our wafer fabrication requirements. Approximately 61% of our net sales came from products that were produced at outside wafer foundries in the three months ended June 30, 2019 compared to approximately 49% during the three months ended June 30, 2018. The increase was primarily due to our acquisition of Microsemi, which outsources the majority of its wafer fabrication requirements. The timing of the acquisition, which occurred on May 29, 2018, also contributed to the increase as the June 30, 2019 results included a full three months of Microsemi activity compared to one month in the three months ended June 30, 2018.
Our use of third parties involves some reduction in our level of control over the portions of our business that we subcontract. While we review the quality, delivery and cost performance of our third-party contractors, our future operating results could suffer if any third-party contractor is unable to maintain manufacturing yields, assembly and test yields and costs at approximately their current levels.
Selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended June 30, 2019 were $167.9 million, or 12.7% of net sales, compared to $164.0 million, or 13.5% of net sales, for the three months ended June 30, 2018. Our goal is to continue to be more efficient with our operating expenses as our revenue increases. Selling, general and administrative expenses include salary expenses related to field sales, marketing and administrative personnel, advertising and promotional expenditures and legal expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses also include costs related to our direct sales force, CEMs and ESEs who work in sales offices worldwide to stimulate demand by assisting customers in the selection and use of our products.
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $3.9 million, or 2.4%, for the three months ended June 30, 2019 over the same period last year. The primary reasons for the increase in selling, general and administrative expenses were higher headcount costs from our acquisition of Microsemi and remediation costs related to the network compromise discussed in Item 4 of this Form 10-Q, partially offset by reductions in personnel and associated costs in connection with synergies realized from our Microsemi acquisition.
During the three months ended June 30, 2019, we incurred special charges and other, net of $8.1 million, compared to $40.1 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018. Our restructuring expenses were related to our most recent business acquisitions, and resulted from workforce, property and other operating expense rationalizations as well as combining product roadmaps and manufacturing operations. 
Interest income in the three months ended June 30, 2019 was $0.7 million compared to $5.7 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018. The primary reason for the decrease in interest income in the three months ended June 30, 2019 compared to the same period last year relates to lower invested cash balances. During the quarter ended June 30, 2018, we used a substantial portion of our cash to help finance the purchase price of our acquisition of Microsemi. 
Interest expense in the three months ended June 30, 2019 was $132.6 million compared to $90.4 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018. The primary reason for the increase in interest expense in the three months ended June 30, 2019 compared to the same period last year relates to relates to our additional borrowings to help finance our acquisition of Microsemi. 
Other income, net in the three months ended June 30, 2019 was $2.7 million compared to other expense, net of $9.8 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018. The primary reason for the increase in other income (expense) in the three months ended June 30, 2019 compared to the same period last year relates to losses on available for sale investments and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The losses on the available for sale investments were due to the liquidation of these investments in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 to fund our acquisition of Microsemi. 
Our foreign tax rate differential benefit primarily relates to our operations in Thailand, Malta and Ireland. Our Thailand manufacturing operations are currently subject to numerous tax holidays granted to us based on our investment in property, plant and equipment in Thailand. Our tax holiday periods in Thailand expire at various times in the future; however, we actively seek to obtain new tax holidays or we will be subject to tax at the statutory tax rate of 20%. We do not expect the future expiration of any of our tax holiday periods in Thailand to have a material impact on our effective tax rate. Our Microsemi operations in Malaysia are also subject to a tax holiday that effectively reduces Microsemi’s income tax rate in that jurisdiction. Microsemi’s tax holiday in Malaysia was granted in 2009 and is effective through December 2019, subject to continued compliance with the tax holiday’s requirements. The remaining material components of foreign income taxed at a rate lower than the U.S. are earnings accrued in Ireland at a 12.5% statutory tax rate and earnings accrued in Malta at a 0% tax rate.
We had $437.1 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments at June 30, 2019, an increase of $6.2 million from the March 31, 2019 balance. 
Net cash provided by operating activities was $380.6 million in the three months ended June 30, 2019 compared to $302.4 million in the three months ended June 30, 2018. The increase in net cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to higher operating cash flows resulting from synergies realized from our process efficiencies and restructuring efforts related to our acquisition of Microsemi.
Our level of capital expenditures varies from time to time as a result of actual and anticipated business conditions. Capital expenditures in the three months ended June 30, 2019 were $23.9 million compared to $89.4 million in the three months ended June 30, 2018. Capital expenditures were primarily for the expansion of production capacity, the addition of research and development equipment and new office buildings. We currently intend to spend between $110 million and $130 million during the next twelve months to invest in equipment and facilities. We believe that the capital expenditures anticipated to be incurred over the next twelve months will provide sufficient manufacturing capacity to support the growth of our production capabilities for our new products and technologies and to bring in-house more of the assembly and test operations that are currently outsourced. We expect to finance our capital expenditures through our existing cash balances and cash flows from operations. 
 We enter into derivative transactions from time to time in an attempt to reduce our exposure to currency rate fluctuations. Although none of the countries in which we conduct significant foreign operations has had a highly inflationary economy in the last five years, there is no assurance that inflation rates or fluctuations in foreign currency rates in countries where we conduct operations will not adversely affect our operating results in the future. At June 30, 2019, we had a foreign currency forward contract outstanding with a notional amount of $220.6 million to economically hedge certain balance sheet exposures related to the Malaysian ringgit.
There were no repurchases of common stock during three months ended June 30, 2019. As of June 30, 2019, we held approximately 15.2 million shares as treasury shares. 
On October 28, 2002, we announced that our Board of Directors had approved and instituted a quarterly cash dividend on our common stock. A quarterly dividend of $0.3655 per share was paid on June 4, 2019 in the aggregate amount of $87.1 million. A quarterly dividend of $0.3660 per share was declared on August 6, 2019 and will be paid on September 4, 2019 to stockholders of record as of August 21, 2019. We expect the aggregate cash dividend for September 2019 to be approximately $87.3 million. Our Board is free to change our dividend practices at any time and to increase or decrease the dividend paid, or not to pay a dividend on our common stock on the basis of our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements and future prospects, and other factors deemed relevant by our Board. Our current intent is to provide for ongoing quarterly cash dividends depending upon market conditions, our results of operations, and potential changes in tax laws.
We believe that our existing sources of liquidity combined with cash generated from operations and borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility will be sufficient to meet our currently anticipated cash requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, the semiconductor industry is capital intensive. In order to remain competitive, we must constantly evaluate the need to make significant investments in capital equipment for both production and research and development. We may increase our borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility or seek additional equity or debt financing from time to time to maintain or expand our wafer fabrication and product assembly and test facilities, for cash dividends, for share repurchases or for acquisitions or other purposes. The timing and amount of any such financing requirements will depend on a number of factors, including our level of dividend payments, changes in tax laws and regulations regarding the repatriation of offshore cash (including the impact of the Act), demand for our products, changes in industry conditions, product mix, competitive factors and our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates. There can be no assurance that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, and any additional equity financing would result in incremental ownership dilution to our existing stockholders.
As of June 30, 2019, we are not involved in any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K with the exception of standby letters of credit or other guarantee instruments to certain parties as required for certain transactions initiated by us or our subsidiaries. We have not recorded any liability in connection with these guarantee arrangements. Based on historical experience and information currently available, we believe we will not be required to make any payments under these guarantee arrangements. Prior to the first quarter of fiscal 2020, we did not record any liability in connection with various operating leases for buildings and equipment entered into in the ordinary course of business. We recorded the associated lease obligations as a liability when we adopted the provisions of the Accounting Standard Update 2016-02-Leases, which was effective April 1, 2019. Refer to Note 2 and Note 11 to our condensed consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the adoption of this accounting standard.
We did not repurchase any shares of our common stock in the three months ended June 30, 2019.
