•Our ability to collect accounts receivable.
Our manufacturing operations include wafer fabrication, wafer probe and assembly and test. The ownership of a substantial portion of our manufacturing resources is an important component of our business strategy, enabling us to maintain a high level of manufacturing control resulting in us being one of the lowest cost producers in the embedded control industry. By owning wafer fabrication facilities and assembly and test operations, and by employing statistical process control 
techniques, we have been able to achieve and maintain high production yields. Direct control over manufacturing resources allows us to shorten our design and production cycles. This control also allows us to capture a portion of the wafer manufacturing and the assembly and test profit margin. We do outsource a significant portion of our manufacturing requirements to third parties. Our acquisition of Microsemi significantly increased the amount of our outsourced manufacturing requirements.
We are committed to continuing our investment in new and enhanced products, including development systems, and in our design and manufacturing process technologies. We believe these investments are significant factors in maintaining our competitive position. Our current research and development activities focus on the design of new microcontrollers, digital signal controllers, memory, analog and mixed-signal products, FPGA's, timing systems, Flash-IP, development systems, software and application-specific software libraries. We are also developing new design and process technologies to achieve further cost reductions and performance improvements in our products.
On May 29, 2018, we completed our acquisition of Microsemi Corporation, a publicly traded company headquartered in Aliso Viejo, California. We paid an aggregate of approximately $8.19 billion in cash to the stockholders of Microsemi. The total consideration transferred in the acquisition, including approximately $53.9 million of non-cash consideration for the exchange of certain share-based payment awards of Microsemi for stock awards of Microchip, was approximately $8.24 billion. In addition to the consideration transferred, we recognized in our consolidated financial statements $3.15 billion in liabilities of Microsemi consisting of debt, taxes payable and deferred, pension obligations, restructuring, and contingent and other liabilities of which $2.06 billion of existing debt was paid off. We financed the purchase price using approximately $8.10 billion of borrowings consisting of $3.10 billion under our amended and restated revolving line of credit (the "Credit Facility"), $3.00 billion under the term loan feature of the Credit Facility ("Term Loan Facility"), and $2.00 billion in newly issued senior secured notes. We incurred $22.0 million in costs related to the acquisition. As a result of the acquisition, Microsemi became a wholly owned subsidiary of Microchip. Microsemi offers a comprehensive portfolio of semiconductor and system solutions for aerospace and defense, communications, data center and industrial markets. Our primary reason for this acquisition was to expand our range of solutions, products and capabilities by extending our served available market.
Deferred income on shipments to distributors effectively represented the gross margin on the sale to the distributor; however, the amount of gross margin that we recognized in the subsequent periods was less than the deferred margin as a result of credits granted to distributors on specifically identified products and customers to allow the distributors to earn a competitive gross margin on the sale of our products to their end customers and price protection concessions related to market pricing conditions.
We sold the majority of the items in our product catalog to our distributors worldwide at a uniform list price. However, distributors resold our products to end customers at a broad range of individually negotiated price points. The majority of our distributors' resales required a reduction from the original list price paid. Often, under these circumstances, we remitted back to the distributor a portion of their original purchase price after the resale transaction was completed in the form of a credit against the distributors' outstanding accounts receivable balance. The credits were on a per unit basis and were not given to the distributor until they provided information to us regarding the sale to their end customer. The price reductions varied significantly based on the customer, product, quantity ordered, geographic location and other factors. Discounts to a price less than our cost have historically been rare. The effect of granting these credits established the net selling price to our distributors for the product and resulted in the net revenue recognized by us when the product was sold by the distributors to their end customers. Thus, a portion of the "deferred income on shipments to distributors" balance represented the amount of distributors' original purchase price that was credited back to the distributors in the subsequent periods. We did not reduce deferred income on shipments to distributors or accounts receivable by anticipated concessions; rather, price concessions were typically recorded against deferred income on shipments to distributors and accounts receivable when incurred, which was generally at the time the distributor sold the product. At March 31, 2018, we had approximately $479.6 million of deferred revenue and $145.8 million in deferred cost of sales recognized as $333.8 million of deferred income on shipments to distributors. The deferred income on shipments to distributors that was ultimately recognized in our income statement was lower than the amount reflected on the balance sheet at March 31, 2018 due to additional price credits that were granted to the distributors when the product was sold to their customers. These additional price credits historically have resulted in the deferred income approximating the overall gross margins that we recognized in the distribution channel of our business.
We reduced product pricing through price protection based on market conditions, competitive considerations and other factors. Price protection was granted to distributors on the inventory they had on hand at the date the price protection was offered. When we reduced the price of our products, it allowed the distributor to claim a credit against its outstanding accounts receivable balances based on the new price of the inventory it had on hand as of the date of the price reduction. There was no immediate revenue impact from the price protection, as it was reflected as a reduction of the deferred income on shipments to distributors' balance.
Sales to our direct customers are generally governed by a purchase order and an order acknowledgment. Sales to direct customers usually do not meet the definition of a contract, as defined by ASC 606, until shipment of the product occurs. Generally, the transaction price associated with contracts with direct customers is set at the standalone selling price and is not variable. Usually, there is only a single performance obligation in the contract, and therefore the entire transaction price is allocated to the single performance obligation. After the transaction price has been allocated, we recognize revenue when the performance obligation is satisfied. Substantially all of the revenue generated from contracts with direct customers is recognized at the time risk and title of the inventory transfers to the customer.
Revenue generated from our licensees is governed by licensing agreements. Our primary performance obligation related to these agreements is to provide the licensee the right to use the intellectual property. The final transaction price is determined by multiplying the usage of the license by the royalty, which is fixed in the licensing agreement. Revenue is recognized as usage of the license occurs. 
We measure at fair value and recognize compensation expense for all share-based payment awards, including grants of employee stock options, restricted stock units (RSUs) and employee stock purchase rights, to be recognized in our financial statements based on their respective grant date fair values. For the past several years, we have utilized RSUs as our primary equity incentive compensation instrument for employees. Share-based compensation cost is measured on the grant date based on the fair market value of our common stock discounted for expected future dividends and is recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service periods. Total share-based compensation during the six months ended September 30, 2018 was $87.9 million, of which $80.4 million was reflected in operating expenses and $7.5 million was reflected in cost of sales. Total share-based compensation included in our inventory balance was $8.6 million at September 30, 2018. 
We recognize forfeitures as they occur. If there are any modifications or cancellations of the underlying unvested securities, we may be required to accelerate, increase or cancel any remaining unearned share-based compensation expense. Future share-based compensation expense and unearned share-based compensation will increase to the extent that we grant additional equity awards to employees or we assume unvested equity awards in connection with acquisitions.
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value using the first-in, first-out method. We write down our inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory in an amount equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated net realizable value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those we projected, additional inventory write-downs may be required. Inventory impairment charges establish a new cost basis for inventory and charges are not subsequently reversed to income even if circumstances later suggest that increased carrying amounts are recoverable. In estimating our inventory obsolescence, we primarily evaluate estimates of demand over a 12-month period and record impairment charges for inventory on hand in excess of the estimated 12-month demand. Estimates for projected 12-month demand are generally based on the average shipments of the prior three-month period, which are then annualized to adjust for any potential seasonality in our business. The estimated 12-month demand is compared to our most recently developed sales forecast to further reconcile the 12-month demand estimate. Management reviews and adjusts the estimates as appropriate based on specific situations. For example, demand can be adjusted up for new products for which historic sales are not representative of future demand. Alternatively, demand can be adjusted down to the extent any existing products are being replaced or discontinued.
In periods where our production levels are substantially below our normal operating capacity, the reduced production levels of our manufacturing facilities are charged directly to cost of sales. There was no charge to cost of sales for reduced production levels in each of the six month periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017.
The accounting model as defined in Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 740 related to the valuation of uncertain tax positions requires us to presume that the tax position will be examined by the relevant taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information and that each tax position will be evaluated without consideration of the possibility of offset or aggregation with other positions. The recognition requirement for the liability exists even if we believe the possibility of examination by a taxing authority or discovery of the related risk matters is remote or where we have a long history of the taxing authority not performing an exam or not challenging an issue. We will record an adjustment to a previously recorded position if new information or facts related to the position are identified in a subsequent period. All adjustments to the positions are recorded in the income statement. Generally, adjustments will be recorded in periods subsequent to the initial recognition if the taxing authority has completed an audit of the period or if the statute of limitation expires. Due to the inherent uncertainty in the estimation process and in consideration of the criteria of the accounting model, amounts recognized in the financial statements in periods subsequent to the initial recognition may significantly differ from the estimated exposure of the position under the accounting model.
Due to the complexity of the new tax on low-taxed income of foreign subsidiaries, we are continuing to evaluate this provision of the Act and the application of ASC 740. Based on recent FASB deliberations, it appears we will be allowed to 
make an accounting policy choice of either (1) treating taxes due on future U.S. inclusions in taxable income as a current-period expense when incurred or (2) factoring such amounts into our measurement of our deferred taxes. Our selection of an accounting policy will depend, in part, on analyzing our facts to determine what the impact is expected to be under each method. As of September 30, 2018, we are still evaluating which accounting policy to utilize.
We separately account for the liability and equity components of our senior and junior subordinated convertible debt in a manner that reflects our nonconvertible debt (unsecured debt) borrowing rate when interest cost is recognized. This results in a bifurcation of a component of the debt, classification of that component in equity and the accretion of the resulting discount on the debt to be recognized as part of interest expense in our condensed consolidated statements of income. Lastly, we include the dilutive effect of the shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of the outstanding senior and junior subordinated convertible debt in our diluted income per share calculation regardless of whether the market price triggers or other contingent conversion features have been met. We apply the treasury stock method as we have the intent and have adopted an accounting policy to settle the principal amount of the senior and junior subordinated convertible debentures in cash. This method results in incremental dilutive shares when the average fair value of our common stock for a reporting period exceeds the conversion prices per share and adjusts as dividends are recorded in the future.
We accrue for claims and contingencies when losses become probable and reasonably estimable. As of the end of each applicable reporting period, we review each of our matters and, where it is probable that a liability has been or will be incurred, we accrue for all probable and reasonably estimable losses. Where we can reasonably estimate a range of losses we may incur regarding such a matter, we record an accrual for the amount within the range that constitutes our best estimate. If we can reasonably estimate a range but no amount within the range appears to be a better estimate than any other, we use the amount that is the low end of such range. Contingencies of an acquired company that exist as of the date of the acquisition are measured at fair value if determinable, which generally is based on a probability weighted model. If fair value is not determinable, contingencies of an acquired company are recognized when they become probable and reasonably estimable.
We operate in two industry segments and engage primarily in the design, development, manufacture and sale of semiconductor products as well as the licensing of our SuperFlash and other technologies. We sell our products to distributors and original equipment manufacturers, referred to as OEMs, in a broad range of markets, perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and generally require no collateral. In certain circumstances, a customer's financial condition may require collateral, and, in such cases, the collateral would be typically provided by letters of credit.
The increases in net sales in the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the three and six months ended September 30, 2017 were due primarily to our acquisition of Microsemi. We sell a large number of products to a large and diverse customer base and, excluding the impact of our Microsemi acquisition, there was not any product, customer or market that accounted for a material portion of the change. The overall average selling price of our products increased significantly during the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the three and six months ended September 30, 2017 due to our acquisition of Microsemi, whose average selling price is higher than the average selling price of our historical business due to the types of products they offer and the types of customers and markets they serve.
•continued market share gains in the segments of the markets we address.
Our microcontroller product line represents the largest component of our total net sales. Microcontrollers and associated application development systems accounted for approximately 54.3% and 56.7% of our net sales for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, compared to approximately 65.9% and 65.5% of our net sales for the three and six months ended September 30, 2017, respectively. The decrease is due to our acquisition of Microsemi, whose microcontroller product line accounted for a relatively lower percentage of its total net sales.
Net sales of our microcontroller products increased 17.0% and 15.4% in the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, compared to the three and six months ended September 30, 2017. These sales increases were due primarily to our acquisition of Microsemi.
Sales of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products accounted for approximately 29.3% and 28.4% of our net sales for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, compared to approximately 23.6% and 24.1% of our net sales for the three and six months ended September 30, 2017, respectively. The increase is due to our acquisition of Microsemi, whose analog, interface, mixed signal and timing product line accounted for a relatively higher percentage of its total net sales.
Net sales of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products increased 75.3% and 57.1% in the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, compared to the three and six months ended September 30, 2017. These sales increases were due primarily to our acquisition of Microsemi.
Analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products can be proprietary or non-proprietary in nature. Currently, we consider a majority of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products to be proprietary in nature, where prices are relatively stable, similar to the pricing stability experienced in our microcontroller products. The non-proprietary portion of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing business will experience price fluctuations driven primarily by the current supply and demand for those products. We may be unable to maintain the average selling prices of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products as a result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which would adversely affect our operating results. We anticipate the proprietary portion of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products will increase over time.
Sales of our memory products accounted for approximately 3.4% and 3.7% of our net sales for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, compared to approximately 5.1% of our net sales for each of the three and six months ended September 30, 2017, respectively. 
Net sales of our memory products decreased 7.7% and 3.4% in the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, compared to the three and six months ended September 30, 2017. These sales decreases were due primarily to customer demand conditions. 
Our FPGA product line was primarily acquired as part of our acquisition of Microsemi on May 29, 2018. Sales of our FPGA products accounted for approximately 4.9% and 4.1%, respectively, of our net sales in the three and six months ended September 30, 2018.
Technology licensing revenue includes a combination of royalties associated with licenses for the use of our SuperFlash and other technologies, sales of our intellectual property, and fees for engineering services. Technology licensing accounted for approximately 2.7% and 2.5% of our net sales for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, compared to approximately 2.5% and 2.6% of our net sales for the three and six months ended September 30, 2017, respectively. 
Net sales related to our technology licensing increased 48.1% and 27.8% in the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, compared to the three and six months ended September 30, 2017. Revenue from technology licensing can fluctuate over time based on the production activities of our licensees, the sales of intellectual property, and general economic and semiconductor industry conditions.
Multi-market and Other (MMO) consists of manufacturing services (wafer foundry and assembly and test subcontracting), legacy application specific integrated circuits, and products for aerospace applications. Revenue from these services and products accounted for approximately 5.4% and 4.6% of our net sales for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, compared to approximately 2.9% and 2.7% of our net sales for the three and six months ended September 30, 2017, respectively. 
Net sales related to these services and products increased 160.4% and 129.1% in the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the three and six months ended September 30, 2017. These increases were due primarily to our acquisition of Microsemi, which significantly increased our portfolio of timing systems products. MMO net sales can fluctuate over time based on general economic and semiconductor industry conditions as well as changes in demand for our manufacturing services (wafer foundry and assembly and test subcontracting). 
Distributors accounted for approximately 49.7% and 51.3% of our net sales in the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 and approximately 53.5% and 54.5% of our net sales in the three and six months ended September 30, 2017. The decreases in these percentages in the periods ended September 30, 2018 compared to the periods ended September 30, 2017 are due to our acquisition of Microsemi, whose distributors accounted for a smaller portion of net sales than Microchip's historical business. Our distributors focus primarily on servicing the product requirements of a broad base of diverse customers. We believe that distributors provide an effective means of reaching this broad and diverse customer base. We believe that customers recognize Microchip for its products and brand name and use distributors as an effective supply channel.
At September 30, 2018, our distributors maintained 37 days of inventory of our products compared to 36 days of inventory at our distributors at March 31, 2018. Our acquisition of Microsemi initially caused an increase in our overall days of inventory maintained by our distributors, however, inventory levels at Microsemi's distributors have decreased since the completion of the acquisition, bringing the overall days of inventory back to our historical levels. Over the past five fiscal years, the days of inventory maintained by our distributors have fluctuated between 31 days and 40 days. Prior to our adoption of ASU 2014-09-Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) on April 1, 2018, we did not believe that inventory holding patterns at our distributors materially impacted our net sales due to the fact that we recognized revenue based on when the distributor sold the product to their customer. Upon our adoption of Topic 606 on April 1, 2018, we are required to recognize revenue from distributors at the time our products are sold to the distributor. As a result, beginning April 1, 2018, inventory holding patterns at our distributors may have a material impact on our net sales.
Americas sales include sales to customers in the U.S., Canada, Central America and South America. Sales to foreign customers accounted for approximately 80% and 82% of our total net sales in the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 compared to approximately 84% of our total net sales in each of the three and six months ended September 30, 2017. Substantially all of our foreign sales are U.S. dollar denominated. Sales to customers in Asia have generally increased over time due to many of our customers transitioning their manufacturing operations to Asia and growth in demand from the emerging Asian market; however, sales to Asia as a percentage of our total net sales decreased in the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the three and six months ended September 30, 2017 due to our acquisition of Microsemi, whose sales to customers in Asia accounted for a smaller portion of their total net sales than Microchip's historical business. Sales to customers in Americas increased as a percentage of total sales in the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the three and six months ended September 30, 2017 due to our acquisition of Microsemi, which had more concentration in the aerospace and defense industry in the Americas. Our sales force in the Americas and Europe supports a significant portion of the design activity for products which are ultimately shipped to Asia.
Our gross profit in the three months ended September 30, 2018 was $689.3 million, or 48.1% of net sales, compared to $614.1 million, or 60.7% of net sales, in the three months ended September 30, 2017. Our gross profit in the six months ended September 30, 2018 was $1,331.3 million, or 50.3% of net sales, compared to $1,198.5 million, or 60.4% of net sales, in the six months ended September 30, 2017. 
•charges of approximately $182.1 million and $289.7 million, respectively, in the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, related to the recognition of acquired inventory at fair value as a result of our acquisition of Microsemi which increased the value of our acquired inventory and subsequently increased our cost of sales and reduced our gross margins when the related revenue was recognized;
•fluctuations in the product mix of microcontrollers, analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products, memory products and technology licensing.
•favorable market conditions and product mix.
We adjust our wafer fabrication and assembly and test capacity utilization as required to respond to actual and anticipated business and industry-related conditions. When production levels are below normal capacity, which we measure as a percentage of the capacity of the installed equipment, we charge cost of sales for the unabsorbed capacity. During the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, we operated at below normal capacity levels resulting in an unabsorbed capacity charge of $5.0 million. During the three and six months ended September 30, 2017, our wafer fabrication facilities and assembly and test facilities operated at normal capacity levels.
The process technologies utilized in our wafer fabrication facilities impact our gross margins. Our wafer fabrication facility located in Tempe, Arizona (Fab 2) currently utilizes various manufacturing process technologies, but predominantly utilizes our 0.5 micron to 1.0 micron processes. Our wafer fabrication facility located in Gresham, Oregon (Fab 4) predominantly utilizes our 0.13 micron to 0.5 micron processes. We continue to transition products to more advanced process technologies to reduce future manufacturing costs. All of our production in Fab 2 and Fab 4 has been on 8-inch wafers during the periods covered by this report. We consider normal capacity at Fab 2 and Fab 4 to be 90% to 95%. Our wafer fabrication facility in Colorado Springs, Colorado (Fab 5) currently utilizes processes between 0.25 micron and 1.0 micron that run on 6-inch wafers. We consider normal capacity at Fab 5 to be 70% to 75%. As a result of our acquisition of Micrel in August 2015, we acquired a 6-inch wafer fabrication facility in San Jose, California and have since transitioned products previously manufactured at this facility to our Fab 2, Fab 4 and Fab 5 facilities. During the quarter ended December 31, 2016, we decommissioned this San Jose facility and, in June 2017, we completed the sale of these assets for proceeds of $10.0 million.
Our overall inventory levels were $836.7 million at September 30, 2018, compared to $476.2 million at March 31, 2018. Our overall inventory levels increased since March 31, 2018 because of our acquisition of Microsemi, which had $320.9 million of inventory as of September 30, 2018, including approximately $120.1 million of remaining acquired inventory fair value mark-up. We maintained 103 days of inventory on our balance sheet at September 30, 2018 compared to 112 days of inventory at March 31, 2018. Excluding the $120.1 million of remaining acquired inventory fair value mark-up from our Microsemi acquisition, we would have maintained 117 days of inventory on our balance sheet at September 30, 2018 compared to 112 days of inventory at March 31, 2018. We expect our days of inventory levels in the December 2018 quarter to be flat to up 10 days compared to the September 2018 levels. We believe our existing level of inventory will allow us to maintain competitive lead times and provide strong delivery performance to our customers.
We operate assembly and test facilities in Thailand, the Philippines, and other locations throughout the world. Approximately 36% and 37% of our assembly requirements were performed in our internal assembly facilities in the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, compared to approximately 38% and 37% during the three and six months ended September 30, 2017, respectively. Approximately 45% and 48% of our test requirements were performed in our internal test facilities during the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, compared to approximately 63% and 60% during the three and six months ended September 30, 2017, respectively. Third-party contractors located primarily in Asia perform the balance of our assembly and test operations. The percentage of our assembly and test operations that are performed internally fluctuates over time based on supply and demand conditions in the semiconductor industry, our internal capacity capabilities and our acquisition activities. The decreases in the percentage of assembly and test work that was performed internally in the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the three and six months ended September 30, 2017 were primarily due to our acquisition of Microsemi, which outsources substantially all of its assembly and test requirements. We believe that the assembly and test operations performed at our internal facilities provide us with significant cost savings compared to contractor assembly and test costs, as well as increased control over these portions of the manufacturing process.
We rely on outside wafer foundries for a significant portion of our wafer fabrication requirements. Approximately 58% and 54% of our net sales came from products that were produced at outside wafer foundries in the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, compared to 42% in each of the three and six months ended September 30, 2017.
Our use of third parties involves some reduction in our level of control over the portions of our business that we subcontract. While we review the quality, delivery and cost performance of our third-party contractors, our future operating results could suffer if any third-party contractor is unable to maintain manufacturing yields, assembly and test yields and costs at approximately their current levels.
Selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2018 were $176.6 million, or 12.3% of net sales, compared to $114.3 million, or 11.3% of net sales, for the three months ended September 30, 2017. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the six months ended September 30, 2018 were $340.7 million, or 12.9% of net sales, compared to $228.6 million, or 11.5% of net sales, for the six months ended September 30, 2017. Our goal is to continue to be more efficient with our operating expenses as our revenue increases. Selling, general and administrative expenses include salary expenses related to field sales, marketing and administrative personnel, advertising and promotional expenditures and legal expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses also include costs related to our direct sales force, CEMs and ESEs who work in sales offices worldwide to stimulate demand by assisting customers in the selection and use of our products.
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $62.3 million, or 54.5%, for the three months ended September 30, 2018 over the same period last year. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $112.1 million, or 49.0%, for the six months ended September 30, 2018 over the same period last year. The primary reasons for the increases in selling, general and administrative expenses were additional costs from our acquisition of Microsemi, including approximately $5.2 million and $31.6 million of acquisition-related legal and professional service expenses in the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively. 
During the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, we incurred special charges and other, net of $18.2 million and $58.3 million, respectively. The special charges and other, net incurred in the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 is comprised primarily of $12.1 million and $57.2 million, respectively, of employee separation costs related to the Microsemi acquisition and impairment losses of $1.5 million and $3.5 million, respectively. During the three and six months ended September 30, 2017, we incurred special charges and other, net of $19.9 million and $17.1 million, respectively, comprised primarily of a $19.5 million charge for fees associated with transitioning from a public utility provider to a lower cost direct access provider. Our restructuring activities include workforce, property and other operating expense rationalizations as well as combining product roadmaps and manufacturing operations. In connection with these activities, we 
incurred employee separations costs, contract exit costs, other operating expenses and intangible asset impairment losses. The impairment charges in the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 were recognized as a result of writing off intangible assets purchased from Microsemi prior to the close of the acquisition and other intangible assets that were impaired as a result of combining and prioritizing the project roadmaps of the combined companies.
During the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, we de-recognized $4.1 million in deferred financing fees in connection with early pay downs of a portion of the outstanding balance on our Term Loan Facility and our Revolving Credit Facility. During the six months ended September 30, 2017, we exchanged in privately negotiated transactions $111.3 million aggregate principal amount of our 2007 Junior Convertible Debt for (i) $111.3 million principal amount of our 2017 Junior Convertible Debt (2017 Junior Debt) with a market value of $119.3 million plus (ii) the issuance of 3.2 million shares of our common stock with a value of $254.6 million resulting in a loss on settlement of convertible debt of $13.8 million.
Other loss, net in the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 was $0.2 million and $10.0 million, respectively. Other income, net in the three and six months ended September 30, 2017 was $5.8 million and $10.1 million. The primary reason for these changes relates to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.
Our foreign tax rate differential benefit primarily relates to our operations in Thailand, Malta and Ireland. Our Thailand manufacturing operations are currently subject to numerous tax holidays granted to us based on our investment in property, plant and equipment in Thailand. Our tax holiday periods in Thailand expire at various times in the future, however, we actively seek to obtain new tax holidays or we will be subject to tax at the statutory tax rate of 20%. We do not expect the future expiration of any of our tax holiday periods in Thailand to have a material impact on our effective tax rate. Our Microsemi operations in Malaysia are also subject to a tax holiday that effectively reduces Microsemi’s Malaysia net income tax rate to zero in that jurisdiction. Microsemi’s tax holiday in Malaysia was granted in 2009 and is effective through December 2019, subject to continued compliance with the tax holiday’s requirements. The remaining material components of foreign income taxed at a rate lower than the U.S. are earnings accrued in Ireland at a 12.5% statutory tax rate and earnings accrued in Malta at a 0% effective tax rate.
We had $464.2 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments at September 30, 2018, a decrease of $1.73 billion from the March 31, 2018 balance. The decrease in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments over this time period is primarily attributable to $1.74 billion in cash and $8.40 billion from additional debt to fund our acquisition of Microsemi and payoff Microsemi’s existing debt, partially offset by proceeds from new debt issuances of $4.99 billion, net borrowings of $3.33 billion on our credit facility and cash generated by operating activities.
Our level of capital expenditures varies from time to time as a result of actual and anticipated business conditions. Capital expenditures in the six months ended September 30, 2018 were $161.4 million compared to $82.0 million in the six months ended September 30, 2017. Capital expenditures were primarily for the expansion of production capacity, the addition of research and development equipment and new office buildings. Capital expenditures in the first half of fiscal 2018 were relatively less than we had experienced in recent years as we delayed certain purchases until we had finalized and developed plans following our acquisition of Atmel regarding technology platforms and other manufacturing activities. We currently intend to spend approximately $170.0 million during the next twelve months to invest in equipment and facilities. We believe that the capital expenditures anticipated to be incurred over the next twelve months will provide sufficient manufacturing capacity to support the growth of our production capabilities for our new products and technologies and to bring in-house more of the assembly and test operations that are currently outsourced. We expect to finance our capital expenditures through our existing cash balances and cash flows from operations. 
•net proceeds of $3.63 billion from borrowings under our Credit Facility;
On May 29, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Microsemi Corporation, a publicly traded company headquartered in Aliso Viejo, California. We paid an aggregate of approximately $8.19 billion in cash to the stockholders of Microsemi. The 
total consideration transferred in the acquisition, including approximately $53.9 million of non-cash consideration for the exchange of certain share-based payment awards of Microsemi for stock awards for our stock, was approximately $8.24 billion. In addition to the consideration transferred, we recognized $3.15 billion in liabilities in our consolidated financial statements of Microsemi consisting of debt, taxes payable and deferred, pension obligations, restructuring, and contingent and other liabilities of which $2.06 billion of existing debt was paid off. We financed the purchase price using approximately $8.10 billion of borrowings consisting of $3.10 billion under our Credit Facility, $3.00 billion under the term loan feature of the Credit Facility ("Term Loan Facility"), and $2.00 billion in newly issued senior secured notes. We incurred $22.0 million in acquisition costs related to the acquisition. As a result of the acquisition, Microsemi became a wholly owned subsidiary of Microchip. Microsemi offers a comprehensive portfolio of semiconductor and system solutions for aerospace and defense, communications, data center and industrial markets. Our primary reason for this acquisition was to expand our range of solutions, products and capabilities by extending our served available market.
In June 2017, in connection with the settlement of $111.3 million of our convertible debt, we amended our credit agreement to (i) extend the time period during which we are permitted to repurchase, redeem or exchange our 2007 Junior Convertible Debt and (ii) amend the maximum total leverage ratio covenant to extend the time period for permitted refinancings or exchanges of the 2007 Junior Convertible Debt that may be excluded from the calculation of the ratio, subject to certain conditions.
In February 2017, we amended our Credit Facility to, among other things, increase certain covenant compliance ratios. The February 2017 amendment included a new collateral agreement that secures our borrowings with all assets of our guarantor subsidiaries with the exception of real property. Proceeds of loans made under our Credit Facility may be used for working capital and general corporate purposes. At September 30, 2018, we had $3.10 billion of outstanding borrowings under the revolving line of credit which has a capacity of $3.60 billion, and no borrowings at March 31, 2017. See Note 13 of the notes to our condensed consolidated financial statements for more information regarding our Credit Facility.
The enactment of the Act in December 2017 imposed a tax on all previously untaxed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries of U.S. corporations. Due to this change, the jurisdiction in which our cash is at any given point in time, no longer has a significant impact on our liquidity. Future distributions of non-U.S. assets to the U.S. will no longer be subject to U.S. federal taxation. As a result of the Act, as of March 31, 2018, we recognized a one-time transition tax expense of $644.7 million on accumulated unrepatriated foreign earnings, of which we expected cash payments of approximately $363.5 million after offsets by the utilization of various tax credit carryforwards in the United States. This value is identified as provisional in our condensed consolidated financial statements for the period ended March 31, 2018, and is subject to future measurement period adjustments in accordance with SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin ("SAB") 118. We intend to elect to pay this tax over a period of eight years, with 8% of the transition tax paid each year for fiscal 2019 through fiscal 2023, and 15%, 20%, and 25%, respectively, to be paid during fiscal 2024, 2025, and 2026.
We enter into derivative transactions from time to time in an attempt to reduce our exposure to currency rate fluctuations. Although none of the countries in which we conduct significant foreign operations has had a highly inflationary economy in the last five years, there is no assurance that inflation rates or fluctuations in foreign currency rates in countries where we conduct operations will not adversely affect our operating results in the future. At September 30, 2018, we had no foreign currency forward contracts outstanding.
There were no repurchases of common stock during the six months ended September 30, 2018. As of September 30, 2018, we held approximately 17.0 million shares as treasury shares.
On October 28, 2002, we announced that our Board of Directors had approved and instituted a quarterly cash dividend on our common stock. A quarterly dividend of $0.3640 per share was paid on September 4, 2018 in the aggregate amount of $85.9 million. A quarterly dividend of $0.3645 per share was declared on November 7, 2018 and will be paid on December 5, 2018 to stockholders of record as of November 21, 2018. We expect the aggregate cash dividend for December 2018 to be approximately $86.3 million. Our Board is free to change our dividend practices at any time and to increase or decrease the 
We believe that our existing sources of liquidity combined with cash generated from operations and borrowings under our Credit Facility will be sufficient to meet our currently anticipated cash requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, the semiconductor industry is capital intensive. In order to remain competitive, we must constantly evaluate the need to make significant investments in capital equipment for both production and research and development. We may increase our borrowings under our Credit Facility or seek additional equity or debt financing from time to time to maintain or expand our wafer fabrication and product assembly and test facilities, for cash dividends, for share repurchases or for acquisitions or other purposes. The timing and amount of any such financing requirements will depend on a number of factors, including our level of dividend payments, changes in tax laws and regulations regarding the repatriation of offshore cash (including the impact of the Act), demand for our products, changes in industry conditions, product mix, competitive factors and our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates. There can be no assurance that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, and any additional equity financing would result in incremental ownership dilution to our existing stockholders.
The expected timing of payment of the obligations discussed above is estimated based on current information. Timing of payments and actual amounts paid may be different depending on the time of receipt of goods or services or changes to agreed-upon amounts for some obligations.
Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
We did not repurchase any shares of our common stock in the three months ended September 30, 2018.
