Item 1. Financial Statements



CTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS - UNAUDITED







See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.



CTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME ‑ UNAUDITED







 See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.



CTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS







CTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS ‑ UNAUDITED







See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - UNAUDITED







NOTE 1—Basis of Presentation



The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared by CTS Corporation (“CTS” "we", "our", "us" or the "Company”), without audit, pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles have been omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations. The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements, notes thereto, and other information included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the year ended December 31, 2017.



The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements reflect, in the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring items) necessary for a fair statement, in all material respects, of the financial position and results of operations for the periods presented. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported period. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. The results of operations for the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of the results for the entire year.



Changes in Accounting Principles



Beginning in January 2018, CTS adopted the provisions of Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)" under the modified retrospective method, which requires a cumulative effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings on the date of adoption. This approach was applied to contracts not completed as of December 31, 2017. At date of adoption, there was no significant change to our past revenue recognition practices and therefore no adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings was required.





Subsequent Events



We have evaluated subsequent events and transactions for potential recognition or disclosure in the financial statements through the date the consolidated financial statements are issued.



NOTE 2 – Revenue Recognition





•Identify the contract(s) with a customer



•Identify the performance obligations



•Determine the transaction price



•Allocate the transaction price



•Recognize revenue when the performance obligations are met



We recognize revenue when the performance obligations specified in our contracts have been satisfied, after considering the impact of variable consideration and other factors that may affect the transaction price. Our contracts normally contain a single performance obligation that is fulfilled on the date of delivery based on shipping terms stipulated in the contract. We usually expect payment within 30 to 90 days from the shipping date, depending on our terms with the customer. None of our contracts as of June 30, 2018, contained a significant financing component. Differences between the amount of revenue recognized and the amount invoiced, collected from, or paid to our customers are recognized as contract assets or liabilities. Contract assets will be reviewed for impairment when events or circumstances indicate that they may not be recoverable. 



To the extent the transaction price includes variable consideration, we estimate the amount of variable consideration that should be included in the transaction price utilizing the most likely amount method based on an analysis of historical experience and current facts and circumstances, which requires significant judgment. Variable consideration is included in the transaction price if, in our judgment, it is probable that a significant future reversal of cumulative revenue under the contract will not occur. 



Contract Assets and Liabilities







During the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, we recognized a decrease of revenues of $46 and an increase in revenues of $86, respectively, that were included in contract liabilities at the beginning of the period. 



The increase in contract liabilities as of June 30, 2018 is primarily due to net increases in estimated future discounts and price concessions, offset by net settlements of products sold with rights of return.



Disaggregated Revenue







NOTE 3 – Accounts Receivable 







NOTE 4 – Inventories 







NOTE 5 – Property, Plant and Equipment







NOTE 6 – Retirement Plans



Pension Plans















 (1) Expected return on plan assets is net of expected investment expenses and certain administrative expenses.



Other Post-retirement Benefit Plan







NOTE 7 – Other Intangible Assets













NOTE 8 – Costs Associated with Exit and Restructuring Activities



Costs associated with exit and restructuring activities are recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Earnings as a separate component of Operating earnings. 









In June 2016, we announced plans to restructure operations by phasing out production at our Elkhart facility by the end of 2018 and transitioning it into a research and development center supporting our global operations ("June 2016 Plan"). Additional organizational changes were also implemented in various other locations. During the third quarter of 2017, we revised the June 2016 Plan. The amendment added an additional $1,100 in planned costs related to the relocation of our corporate headquarters in Lisle, IL and our plant in Bolingbrook, IL, both of which will be consolidated into a single facility. The total cost of the plan is expected to be approximately $13,400. The total restructuring liability related to severance and other one-time benefit arrangements under the June 2016 Plan was $1,223 at June 30, 2018, and $1,460 at December 31, 2017. Additional costs related to production line movements, equipment charges, and other costs will be expensed as incurred. 







In April 2014, we announced plans to restructure our operations and consolidate our Canadian operations into other existing facilities as part of our overall plan to simplify our business model and rationalize our global footprint (“April 2014 Plan”). These restructuring actions were completed in 2015. The remaining restructuring liability related to the April 2014 Plan was $433 at June 30, 2018, and $453 at December 31, 2017. 









NOTE 9 – Accrued Liabilities







NOTE 10 – Contingencies



Certain processes in the manufacture of our current and past products create by-products classified as hazardous waste. We have been notified by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, state environmental agencies, and in some cases, groups of potentially responsible parties, that we may be potentially liable for environmental contamination at several sites currently and formerly owned or operated by us. Some sites, such as Asheville, North Carolina and Mountain View, California, are designated National Priorities List sites under the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Superfund program. We reserve for probable remediation activities and for claims and proceedings against us with respect to other environmental matters. We record reserves on an undiscounted basis. In the opinion of management, based upon presently available information relating to such matters, adequate provision for probable and estimable costs have been recorded. We do not have any known environmental obligations where a loss is probable or reasonably possible of occurring for which we do not have a reserve, nor do we have any amounts for which we have not reserved because the amount of the loss cannot be reasonably estimated. Due to the inherent nature of environmental obligations, we cannot provide assurance that our ultimate environmental liability will not materially exceed the amount of its current reserve. Our reserve and disclosures will be adjusted accordingly if additional information becomes available in the future.







Unrelated to the environmental claims described above, certain other claims are pending against us with respect to matters arising in the ordinary conduct of our business. Although the ultimate outcome of any potential litigation resulting from these claims cannot be predicted with certainty, and some may be disposed of unfavorably to us, we believe that adequate provision for anticipated costs have been established based upon all presently available information. Except as noted herein, we do not believe we have any pending loss contingencies that are probable or reasonably possible of having a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.



NOTE 11 - Debt







On August 10, 2015, we entered into a five-year credit agreement (“Revolving Credit Facility”) with a group of banks in order to support our financing needs. The Revolving Credit Facility originally provided for a credit line of $200,000. On May 23, 2016, we requested and received a $100,000 increase in the aggregate revolving credit commitments under the existing credit agreement, which increased the credit line from $200,000 to $300,000. 



The Revolving Credit Facility includes a swing line sublimit of $15,000 and a letter of credit sublimit of $10,000. Borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility bear interest, at our option, at the base rate plus the applicable margin for base rate loans or London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") plus the applicable margin for LIBOR loans. We also pay a quarterly commitment fee on the unused portion of the Revolving Credit Facility. The commitment fee ranges from 0.20% to 0.40% based on the our total leverage ratio. 





We have debt issuance costs related to our long-term debt that are being amortized using the straight-line method over the life of the debt. These costs are included in interest expense in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Earnings. Amortization expense was approximately $46 for both the three months ended June 30, 2018 and June 30, 2017, respectively, and approximately $93 for both the six months ended June 30, 2018 and June 30, 2017, respectively. 



Note 12 - Derivative Financial Instruments 



Our earnings and cash flows are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. We selectively use derivative financial instruments including foreign currency forward contracts and interest rate swaps to manage our exposure to these risks. 



The use of derivative financial instruments exposes the Company to credit risk, which relates to the risk of nonperformance by a counterparty to the derivative contracts. We manage our credit risk by entering into derivative contracts with only highly rated financial institutions and by using netting agreements. 



The effective portion of derivative gains and losses are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income until the hedged transaction affects earnings upon settlement, at which time they are reclassified to cost of goods sold or net sales. If it is probable that an anticipated hedged transaction will not occur by the end of the originally specified time period, we reclassify the gains or losses related to that hedge from accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income to other income (expense). 





Foreign Currency Hedges



In January of 2016, we began using forward contracts to mitigate currency risk related to a portion of our forecasted foreign currency revenues and costs. The currency forward contracts are designed as cash flow hedges and are recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value. 



We continue to monitor the Company’s overall currency exposure and may elect to add cash flow hedges in the future. At June 30, 2018, we had a net unrealized gain of $59 in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income, of which $5 is expected to be reclassified to income within the next 12 months. At June 30, 2017 we had a net unrealized gain of $428 in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income. The notional amount of foreign currency forward contracts outstanding was $21.1 million at June 30, 2018.



Interest Rate Swaps



We use interest rate swaps to convert the revolving credit facility’s variable rate of interest into a fixed rate. In the second quarter of 2012, CTS entered into four separate interest rate swap agreements to fix interest rates on $50,000 of long-term debt for the periods January 2013 to January 2017. In the third quarter of 2012, we entered into four additional interest rate swap agreements to fix interest rates on $25,000 of long-term debt for the periods January 2013 to January 2017. In the third quarter of 2016, we entered into three additional interest rate swap agreements to fix interest rates on $50,000 of long-term debt for the periods August 2017 to August 2020. The difference to be paid or received under the terms of the swap agreements will be recognized as an adjustment to interest expense when settled.



These swaps are treated as cash flow hedges and consequently, the changes in fair value were recorded in other comprehensive (loss) income. The estimated net amount of the existing gains that are reported in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income that are expected to be reclassified into earnings within the next twelve months is approximately $524. 







The Company has elected to net its foreign currency derivative assets and liabilities in the balance sheet in accordance with ASC 210-20 (Balance Sheet, Offsetting). On a gross basis, there were foreign currency derivative assets of $301 and foreign currency derivative liabilities of $225.







NOTE 13 – Accumulated Other Comprehensive (Loss) Income





Unrealized gains (losses) on hedges relate to interest rate swaps to convert the revolving credit facility's variable rate of interest into a fixed rate and foreign currency forward contracts used to hedge our exposure to changes in exchange rates affecting certain revenues and costs denominated in foreign currencies. These hedges are designated as cash flow hedges, and we have deferred income statement recognition of gains and losses until the hedged transactions occur, at which time amounts are reclassified into earnings. Further information related to our derivative financial instruments is included in Note 12 - Derivative Financial Instruments and Note 16 – Fair Value Measurements.





Cumulative translation adjustments relate to our non-U.S. subsidiary companies that have designated a functional currency other than the U.S. dollar. We are required to translate the subsidiary functional currency financial statements to dollars using a combination of historical, period-end, and average foreign exchange rates. This combination of rates creates the foreign currency translation adjustment component of other comprehensive income. 



Changes in exchange rates between the functional currency and the currency in which a transaction is denominated are foreign exchange transaction gains or losses. Transaction losses for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 were $2,194 and $918, respectively and transaction gains for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 were $1,162 and $1,557, respectively, which have been included in other income (expense) in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Earnings.



















NOTE 14 – Shareholders’ Equity







No common stock repurchases were made during the six months ended June 30, 2018. Through June 30, 2018, we had purchased an aggregate of $7,446 under a board-authorized share repurchase plan allowing for up to $25,000 in stock repurchases. Approximately $17,554 is available for future purchases.







Certain potentially dilutive restricted stock units are excluded from diluted earning per share because they are anti-dilutive. The number of awards that were anti-dilutive at June 30, 2018 and June 30, 2017 were 72,658 and 122,511, respectively.



NOTE 15 - Stock-Based Compensation













We recognize expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period for each separately vesting portion of the award as if the award was, in substance, multiple awards.







Stock Options



We have no stock options exercisable or outstanding as of June 30, 2018, other than the performance-based stock options described below. 



Performance-Based Stock Options



During 2015 and 2016, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the “Committee”) granted a total of 350,000 performance-based stock option awards (“Performance-Based Option Awards”) for certain employees under the 2014 Plan, of which 285,000 remain outstanding after considering forfeitures. The Performance-Based Option Awards have an exercise price of $18.37, a term of five years, and generally will become exercisable (provided the optionee remains employed by the Company or an affiliate) upon our attainment of at least $600,000 in revenues during any of our trailing four quarterly periods (as determined by the Committee) during the term. We have not recognized any expense on these Performance-Based Option Awards 



for the six-month periods ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, since the revenue target was not deemed likely to be attained based on our current forecast.



Service-Based Restricted Stock Units







Performance and Market-Based Restricted Stock Units







The following table summarizes each grant of performance awards outstanding at June 30, 2018. 





Cash-Settled Restricted Stock Units



Cash-Settled RSUs entitle the holder to receive the cash equivalent of one share of common stock for each unit when the unit vests. These RSUs are issued to key employees residing in foreign locations as direct compensation. Generally, these RSUs vest over a three-year period. Cash-Settled RSUs are classified as liabilities and are remeasured at each reporting date until settled. At June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 we had 17,248 and 14,082 cash-settled RSUs outstanding, respectively. At June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, liabilities of $184 and $241, respectively were included in Accrued liabilities on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.



NOTE 16 — Fair Value Measurements



We use interest rate swaps to convert our Revolving Credit Facility’s variable rate of interest into a fixed rate and foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the effect of foreign currency changes on certain revenues and costs denominated in foreign currencies. These derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value on a recurring basis. 











The fair value of our interest rate swaps and foreign currency hedges were measured using standard valuation models using market-based observable inputs over the contractual terms, including forward yield curves, among others. There is a readily determinable market for these derivative instruments, but that market is not active and therefore they are classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.







Our long-term debt consists of the Revolving Credit Facility which is recorded at its carrying value. There is a readily determinable market for our long-term debt and it is classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy as the market is not deemed to be active. The fair value of long-term debt approximates carrying value and was determined by valuing a similar hypothetical coupon bond and attributing that value to our long-term debt under the Revolving Credit Facility.



NOTE 17 — Income Taxes







Our effective income tax rate was 37.7% and 28.4% in the second quarters of 2018 and 2017, respectively. The increase in the effective tax rate for the three months ended June 30, 2018, compared with the same period in 2017, was primarily attributed to tax expense of $1,703 related to a one-time cash distribution from Taiwan, offset by a reduction in our statutory tax rate as a result of the 2017 Tax and Jobs Act (the "Tax Act"). The tax rate in the second quarter of 2018 was higher than the U.S. statutory federal tax rate primarily due to foreign withholding taxes, state taxes and foreign earnings that are taxed at higher rates. The tax rate in the second quarter of 2017 was lower than the U.S. statutory federal tax rate primarily due to lower foreign tax rates applicable on foreign earnings.



Our effective income tax rate was 30.2% and 29.4% in the first half of 2018 and 2017, respectively. The increase in the effective tax rate for the six months ended June 30, 2018, compared with the same period in 2017, was primarily attributed to tax expense of $1,703 related to a one-time cash distribution from Taiwan, offset by the previously mentioned statutory tax rate reduction resulting from the Tax Act. The tax rate in the first half of 2018 was higher than the U.S. statutory federal tax rate primarily due to foreign withholding taxes, state taxes, and foreign earnings that are taxed at higher rates. The tax rate in the first half of 2017 was lower than the U.S. statutory federal tax rate primarily due to tax benefits recorded upon vesting of restricted stock units, a release of valuation allowances recorded against realizable foreign NOLs, and favorable tax rates on foreign earnings, offset by the impact of state taxes, tax expense for withholding taxes on the anticipated distribution of earnings in China, and other various permanent items.



We recognized the income tax effects of the Tax Act in the audited consolidated financial statements included in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 provides Securities and Exchange Commission staff guidance for the application of ASC Topic 740, Income Taxes, which allows for a measurement period of up to one year from the enactment date for companies to complete their accounting for the U.S. tax law changes. As such, our 2017 financial results reflected a provisional amount of $6,267 that was recorded as deferred tax expense related to the revaluation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, and a provisional amount of $11,734 that was recorded as current tax expense related to the transition tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of foreign earnings. During the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, we recognized measurement period adjustments that resulted in additional tax expense of $0 and $241, respectively. Any subsequent adjustments to our provisional estimated amounts will be recorded to tax expense in the quarter when the analysis is complete. 



For the calendar year beginning in 2018, we are subject to several new provisions of the Tax Act including but not limited to the Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (GILTI) tax. We have provisionally elected to account for any GILTI tax in the period in 



which it is incurred, and therefore have not provided any deferred tax impacts in our consolidated financial statements. For these computations, we have recorded an estimate in our effective tax rate for the three-months ended June 30, 2018. The company will continue to refine our estimates as additional guidance and information becomes available. 



In general, outside of Canada and the U.K., it has been our historical practice to permanently reinvest the earnings of our non-U.S. subsidiaries into those operations. However, as a result of the Tax Act, we can repatriate our cumulative undistributed foreign earnings to the U.S. as needed with minimal U.S. income tax consequences other than the one-time deemed repatriation tax. We will continue to evaluate whether to repatriate all or a portion of the cumulative undistributed foreign earnings based on expansion needs and as circumstances change. We are still evaluating whether to change our indefinite reinvestment assertion in light of the Tax Act and consider that conclusion to be incomplete under guidance issued by SAB 118. If we subsequently change our assertion during the measurement period, we will account for the change in assertion as part of the Tax Act enactment. 





NOTE 18 - Business Combinations





The purchase price of $19,121, net of cash acquired of $199, has been allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed on the acquisition date based on their fair values. 





Goodwill recorded in connection with this acquisition represents the value we expect to be created by combining the operations of the acquired business with our existing operations, including the expansion into markets within our existing business, access to new customers, and potential cost savings and synergies. Goodwill related to this acquisition is expected to be deductible for tax purposes. 



We incurred $291 in transaction related costs during the six months ended June 30, 2017. These costs are included in selling, general and administrative costs in our Consolidated Statements of Earnings.



NOTE 19 — Recent Accounting Pronouncements























ASU 2016-16 "Income Taxes (Topic 740) Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory"



In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-16, "Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory". This ASU is meant to improve the accounting for the income tax effect of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory. Currently, U.S. GAAP prohibits the recognition of current and deferred income taxes for intra-entity asset transfers until the asset is sold to a third party. This ASU will now require companies to recognize the income tax effect of an intra-entity asset transfer (other than inventory) when the transaction occurs. This ASU is effective for public companies, for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019 and interim periods within those annual reporting periods. Early adoption is permitted and is to be applied on a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption. This guidance is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.



ASU 2016-15 "Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230) Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments"



In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15, "Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments". This ASU reduces the diversity in reporting of eight specific cash flow issues due to accounting guidance that is unclear or does not exist. The eight issues relate to certain debt activities, business combination activities, insurance settlements and other various activities. We adopted this ASU as of January 1, 2018 and it did not have an impact on our financial statements.



ASU 2016-02 "Leases (Topic 842)" 



In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, "Leases (Topic 842)". This amendment created a new Topic under the accounting standards codification to account for the provisions of the ASU. This amendment is meant to provide transparency and to improve comparability between entities. The ASU requires companies to record an asset and liability on the balance sheet for leases that were formerly designated as operating leases as well as leases designated as financing leases. The provisions of the ASU predominately change the recognition of leases for lessees; the provisions do not substantially change the accounting for lessors. This ASU will supersede the provisions of Topic 840 Leases.



The liability recorded for a lease is meant to recognize the lease payments and the asset as a right to use the underlying asset for the lease, including optional periods if it is reasonably certain the option will be exercised. Recording of the liability should be based on the present value of the lease payments. If a lease term is less than twelve months, a company is allowed to elect not to record the asset and liability. Expense related to these leases are to be amortized on a straight-line basis over the expected term of the lease.



Additionally, the provisions of this ASU provide additional guidance on separating lease terms from maintenance and other type of provisions that provide a good or service, accounting for sale-leaseback provisions, and leveraged leases. 



Reporting in the cash flow statement remains virtually unchanged. Additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures are required.



These updates are required to be applied under a modified retrospective approach from the beginning of the earliest period presented in our financial statements upon adoption. The modified approach provides optional practical expedients that may be elected, which will allow companies to continue to account for leases under the previous guidance for leases that commenced prior to the effective date.



The provisions of this ASU are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018 and early adoption is permitted. We have begun the process of reviewing existing agreements and are evaluating the impact of this ASU on our financial statements. We expect certain operating leases to be recognized as assets and liabilities as a result of adopting the standard.



Item 1.  Legal Proceedings



From time to time we are involved in litigation with respect to matters arising from the ordinary conduct of our business, and currently certain claims are pending against us. In the opinion of management, based upon presently available information, either adequate provision for anticipated costs have been accrued or the ultimate anticipated costs will not materially affect our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.



Item 1A.  Risk Factors



There have been no significant changes to our risk factors since December 31, 2017.



