Item 1. Financial Statements



CTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS - UNAUDITED







See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.



CTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME ‑ UNAUDITED







 See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.



CTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS







CTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS ‑ UNAUDITED







See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.



CTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



Condensed Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity - Unaudited













See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - UNAUDITED







NOTE 1—Basis of Presentation



The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared by CTS Corporation (“CTS” "we", "our", "us" or the "Company”), without audit, pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles have been omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations. The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements, notes thereto, and other information included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the year ended December 31, 2018.



The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements reflect, in the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring items) necessary for a fair statement, in all material respects, of the financial position and results of operations for the periods presented. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported period. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. The results of operations for the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of the results for the entire year.



Changes in Accounting Principles



Beginning in January 2019, CTS adopted the provisions of Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2016-02, "Leases (Topic 842)" under the optional transition method, which requires a cumulative effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings. The lease liability is based on the present value of minimum lease payments discounted using our secured incremental borrowing rate at the date of adoption. Existing deferred rent liabilities, resulting from our historical practice of using the straight line method for recognizing lease expense, were reclassified upon adoption to reduce the measurement of the lease assets. We elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance, which among other things, allows us to carry forward the historical accounting relating to lease identification and classification for existing leases at adoption. Our leases are classified as operating leases and expense is recorded in a manner similar to historical accounting guidance. We have also elected the practical expedient to not separate lease and non-lease components for the majority of our leases and the election to keep leases with an initial term of 12 months or less off of the balance sheet. Upon adoption we recorded a lease liability of $24,792 and a right of use asset of $22,066. No adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings was required.



Subsequent Events



We have evaluated subsequent events and transactions for potential recognition or disclosure in the financial statements through the date the consolidated financial statements are issued.



NOTE 2 – Revenue Recognition





•Identify the contract(s) with a customer



•Identify the performance obligations



•Determine the transaction price



•Allocate the transaction price



•Recognize revenue when the performance obligations are met



We recognize revenue when the performance obligations specified in our contracts have been satisfied, after considering the impact of variable consideration and other factors that may affect the transaction price. Our contracts normally contain a single performance obligation that is fulfilled on the date of delivery based on shipping terms stipulated in the contract. We usually expect payment within 30 to 90 days from the shipping date, depending on our terms with the customer. None of our contracts as of March 31, 2019, contained a significant financing component. Differences between the amount of revenue recognized and the amount invoiced, collected from, or paid to our customers are recognized as contract assets or liabilities. Contract assets will be reviewed for impairment when events or circumstances indicate that they may not be recoverable. 



To the extent the transaction price includes variable consideration, we estimate the amount of variable consideration that should be included in the transaction price utilizing the most likely amount method based on an analysis of historical experience and current facts and circumstances, which requires significant judgment. Variable consideration is included in the transaction price if, in our judgment, it is probable that a significant future reversal of cumulative revenue under the contract will not occur. 



Contract Assets and Liabilities







During the three months ended March 31, 2019, we recognized a decrease of revenues of $69 for amounts that were included in contract liabilities at the beginning of the period. 



The decrease in contract liabilities as of March 31, 2019 is primarily due to the settlement of customer discounts and price concessions recognized at the beginning of the period.



Disaggregated Revenue







NOTE 3 – Accounts Receivable 







NOTE 4 – Inventories 







NOTE 5 – Property, Plant and Equipment







NOTE 6 – Retirement Plans



Pension Plans













Other Post-retirement Benefit Plan







NOTE 7 – Other Intangible Assets













NOTE 8 – Costs Associated with Exit and Restructuring Activities



Costs associated with exit and restructuring activities are recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Earnings as a separate component of Operating earnings. 







In June 2016, we announced plans to restructure operations by phasing out production at our Elkhart facility and transitioning it into a research and development center supporting our global operations ("June 2016 Plan"). Additional organizational changes were also implemented in various other locations. During the third quarter of 2017, we revised the June 2016 Plan. The amendment added an additional $1,100 in planned costs related to the relocation of our corporate headquarters in Lisle, IL and our plant in Bolingbrook, IL, both of which have now been consolidated into a single facility. The total restructuring liability related to severance and other one-time benefit arrangements under the June 2016 Plan was $537 at March 31, 2019, and $668 at December 31, 2018. Additional costs related to production line movements, equipment charges, and other costs will be expensed as incurred. 







In April 2014, we announced plans to restructure our operations and consolidate our Canadian operations into other existing facilities as part of our overall plan to simplify our business model and rationalize our global footprint (“April 2014 Plan”). These restructuring actions were completed in 2015. The remaining restructuring liability related to the April 2014 Plan was $683 at March 31, 2019, and $918 at December 31, 2018. 









NOTE 9 – Accrued Liabilities







NOTE 10 – Contingencies



Certain processes in the manufacture of our current and past products create by-products classified as hazardous waste. We have been notified by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, state environmental agencies, and in some cases, groups of potentially responsible parties, that we may be potentially liable for environmental contamination at several sites currently and formerly owned or operated by us. Some sites, such as Asheville, North Carolina and Mountain View, California, are designated National Priorities List sites under the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Superfund program. We reserve for probable remediation activities and for claims and proceedings against us with respect to other environmental matters. We record reserves on an undiscounted basis. In the opinion of management, based upon presently available information relating to such matters, adequate provision for probable and estimable costs have been recorded. We do not have any known environmental obligations where a loss is probable or reasonably possible of occurring for which we do not have a reserve, nor do we have any amounts for which we have not reserved because the amount of the loss cannot be reasonably estimated. Due to the inherent nature of environmental obligations, we cannot provide assurance that our ultimate environmental liability will not materially exceed the amount of its current reserve. Our reserve and disclosures will be adjusted accordingly if additional information becomes available in the future.









Unrelated to the environmental claims described above, certain other claims are pending against us with respect to matters arising in the ordinary conduct of our business. Although the ultimate outcome of any potential litigation resulting from these claims cannot be predicted with certainty, and some may be disposed of unfavorably to us, we believe that adequate provision for anticipated costs have been established based upon all presently available information. Except as noted herein, we do not believe we have 



any pending loss contingencies that are probable or reasonably possible of having a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.



NOTE 11 - Debt







On February 12, 2019, we entered into an amended and restated five-year Credit Agreement with a group of banks (the "Credit Agreement"). The Credit Agreement provides for a revolving credit facility of $300,000, which may be increased by $150,000 at the request of the Company, subject to the administrative agent's approval. This new unsecured credit facility replaces the prior $300,000 unsecured credit facility, which would have expired August 10, 2020. Borrowings of $50,000 under the prior credit agreement were refinanced into the Credit Agreement. The prior agreement was terminated as of February 12, 2019.



The Revolving Credit Facility includes a swing line sublimit of $15,000 and a letter of credit sublimit of $10,000. Borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility bear interest, at our option, at the base rate plus the applicable margin for base rate loans or London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") plus the applicable margin for LIBOR loans. We also pay a quarterly commitment fee on the unused portion of the Revolving Credit Facility. The commitment fee ranges from 0.20% to 0.30% based on the our total leverage ratio. 





We have debt issuance costs related to our long-term debt that are being amortized using the straight-line method over the life of the debt. These costs are included in interest expense in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Earnings. Amortization expense was approximately $36 and $46 for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 



Note 12 - Derivative Financial Instruments 



Our earnings and cash flows are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. We selectively use derivative financial instruments including foreign currency forward contracts and interest rate swaps to manage our exposure to these risks. 



The use of derivative financial instruments exposes the Company to credit risk, which relates to the risk of nonperformance by a counterparty to the derivative contracts. We manage our credit risk by entering into derivative contracts with only highly rated financial institutions and by using netting agreements. 



The effective portion of derivative gains and losses are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income until the hedged transaction affects earnings upon settlement, at which time they are reclassified to cost of goods sold or net sales. If it is probable that an anticipated hedged transaction will not occur by the end of the originally specified time period, we reclassify the gains or losses related to that hedge from accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income to other income (expense). 



We assess hedge effectiveness qualitatively by verifying that the critical terms of the hedging instrument and the forecasted transaction continue to match, and that there have been no adverse developments that have increased the risk that the counterparty will default. No recognition of ineffectiveness was recorded in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Earnings for the three months ended March 31, 2019. 



Foreign Currency Hedges



We use forward contracts to mitigate currency risk related to a portion of our forecasted foreign currency revenues and costs. The currency forward contracts are designed as cash flow hedges and are recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value. 



We continue to monitor the Company’s overall currency exposure and may elect to add cash flow hedges in the future. At March 31, 2019, we had a net unrealized gain of $746 in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income, of which $737 is expected to be reclassified to income within the next 12 months. At March 31, 2018 we had a net unrealized gain of $37 in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income. The notional amount of foreign currency forward contracts outstanding was $12,357 at March 31, 2019.



Interest Rate Swaps



We use interest rate swaps to convert our revolving credit facility’s variable rate of interest into a fixed rate. As of March 31, 2019, we have agreements to fix interest rates on $50,000 of long-term debt through August 2020. The difference to be paid or received under the terms of the swap agreements will be recognized as an adjustment to interest expense when settled.



These swaps are treated as cash flow hedges and consequently, the changes in fair value are recorded in other comprehensive (loss) income. The estimated net amount of the existing gains that are reported in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income that are expected to be reclassified into earnings within the next twelve months is approximately $494. 







The Company has elected to net its foreign currency derivative assets and liabilities in the balance sheet in accordance with ASC 210-20 (Balance Sheet, Offsetting). On a gross basis, there were foreign currency derivative assets of $715 and foreign currency derivative liabilities of $0.







NOTE 13 – Accumulated Other Comprehensive (Loss) Income





Unrealized gains (losses) on hedges relate to interest rate swaps to convert our revolving credit facility's variable rate of interest into a fixed rate and foreign currency forward contracts used to hedge our exposure to changes in exchange rates affecting certain revenues and costs denominated in foreign currencies. These hedges are designated as cash flow hedges, and we have deferred income statement recognition of gains and losses until the hedged transactions occur, at which time amounts are reclassified into earnings. Further information related to our derivative financial instruments is included in Note 12 - Derivative Financial Instruments and Note 16 – Fair Value Measurements.





Cumulative translation adjustments relate to our non-U.S. subsidiary companies that have designated a functional currency other than the U.S. dollar. We are required to translate the subsidiary functional currency financial statements to dollars using a combination of historical, period-end, and average foreign exchange rates. This combination of rates creates the foreign currency translation adjustment component of other comprehensive income. 



Changes in exchange rates between the functional currency and the currency in which a transaction is denominated are foreign exchange transaction gains or losses. Transaction gains for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 were $474 and $1,996, respectively, which have been included in other income (expense) in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Earnings.











NOTE 14 – Shareholders’ Equity







On February 7, 2019, the Board of Directors authorized a new stock repurchase program with a maximum dollar limit of $25,000 in stock repurchases, which replaced the previous program. During the three months ended March 31, 2019, 31,500 shares of common stock were repurchased for approximately $849, of which $567 was repurchased under the previous program and $282 was repurchased under the most recent board-authorized share repurchase plan. Approximately $24,718 is available for future purchases.







Certain potentially dilutive restricted stock units are excluded from diluted earning per share because they are anti-dilutive. The number of awards that were anti-dilutive at March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018 were 91,098 and 78,317, respectively.



NOTE 15 - Stock-Based Compensation













We recognize expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period for each separately vesting portion of the award as if the award was, in substance, multiple awards.







Stock Options



We have no stock options exercisable or outstanding as of March 31, 2019, other than the performance-based stock options described below. 



Performance-Based Stock Options



During 2015 and 2016, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the “Committee”) granted a total of 350,000 performance-based stock option awards (“Performance-Based Option Awards”) for certain employees under the 2014 Plan, of which 275,000 remain outstanding after considering forfeitures. The Performance-Based Option Awards have an exercise price of $18.37, a term of five years, and generally will become exercisable (provided the optionee remains employed by the Company or an affiliate) upon our attainment of at least $600,000 in revenues during any of our trailing four quarterly periods (as determined by the Committee) during the term. We have not recognized any expense on these Performance-Based Option Awards 



for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, since the revenue target was not deemed likely to be attained based on our current forecast.



Service-Based Restricted Stock Units







Performance and Market-Based Restricted Stock Units







The following table summarizes each grant of performance awards outstanding at March 31, 2019. 





Cash-Settled Restricted Stock Units



Cash-Settled RSUs entitle the holder to receive the cash equivalent of one share of common stock for each unit when the unit vests. These RSUs are issued to key employees residing in foreign locations as direct compensation. Generally, these RSUs vest over a three-year period. Cash-Settled RSUs are classified as liabilities and are remeasured at each reporting date until settled. At March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 we had 17,308 and 17,248 cash-settled RSUs outstanding, respectively. At March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, liabilities of $158 and $300, respectively were included in Accrued liabilities on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.



NOTE 16 — Fair Value Measurements



We use interest rate swaps to convert our Revolving Credit Facility’s variable rate of interest into a fixed rate and foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the effect of foreign currency changes on certain revenues and costs denominated in foreign currencies. These derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value on a recurring basis. 











The fair value of our interest rate swaps and foreign currency hedges were measured using standard valuation models using market-based observable inputs over the contractual terms, including forward yield curves, among others. There is a readily determinable market for these derivative instruments, but that market is not active and therefore they are classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.







Our long-term debt consists of the Revolving Credit Facility which is recorded at its carrying value. There is a readily determinable market for our long-term debt and it is classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy as the market is not deemed to be active. The fair value of long-term debt approximates carrying value and was determined by valuing a similar hypothetical coupon bond and attributing that value to our long-term debt under the Revolving Credit Facility.



NOTE 17 — Income Taxes







Our effective income tax rate was 20.0% and 24.5% in the first quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared with the same period in 2018, was primarily attributed to tax benefits recorded upon vesting of restricted stock units. The first quarter 2019 tax rate was lower than the U.S. statutory federal tax rate primarily due to the aforementioned tax benefits recorded upon vesting of restricted stock units. The tax rate in the first quarter of 2018 was higher than the U.S. statutory federal tax rate primarily due to higher foreign tax rates applicable on foreign earnings.



We have elected to recognize the tax on the global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI) as a period expense in the period the tax is incurred, and we have included a provisional estimate for GILTI in our estimated annual effective tax rate.





NOTE 18 — Leases



We lease certain land, buildings and equipment under non-cancelable operating leases used in our operations. Operating lease assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term. Operating lease liabilities represent the present value of lease payments over the lease term, discounted using an estimate of our secured incremental borrowing rate because none of our leases contain a rate implicit in the lease arrangement. 



The operating lease assets and liabilities are adjusted to include the impact of any lease incentives and non-lease components. We have elected not to separate lease and non-lease components, which include taxes and common area maintenance in some of our leases. Variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate are included in lease payments using the prevailing index or rate in effect at lease commencement. 



Options to extend or terminate a lease are included in the lease term when it is reasonably likely that we will exercise that option. We have elected not to record leases with an initial term of 12 months or less on the balance sheet and instead recognize those lease payments on a straight-line basis over the lease term.



We determine if an arrangement is a lease or contains a lease at its inception, which normally does not require significant estimates or judgments. Our lease agreements do not contain any material residual value guarantees or material restrictive covenants and we currently have no material sublease agreements.















NOTE 19 — Recent Accounting Pronouncements



ASU 2018-14 "Compensation - Retirement Benefits - Defined Benefit Plans - General"



In August 2018, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2018-14, "Compensation - Retirement Benefits - Defined Benefit Plans - General." This ASU modifies the disclosure requirements for defined benefit and other postretirement plans. This ASU eliminates certain disclosures associated with accumulated other comprehensive income, plan assets, related parties, and the effects of interest rate basis point changes on assumed health care costs; while other disclosures have been added to address significant gains and losses related to changes in benefit obligations. This ASU also clarifies disclosure requirements for projected benefit and accumulated benefit obligations. The amendments in this ASU are effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2020 and for interim periods therein with early adoption permitted. Adoption on a retrospective basis for all periods presented is required. This ASU will impact our financial statement disclosures but will not have an impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.







ASU 2016-16 "Income Taxes (Topic 740) Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory"



In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-16, "Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory". This ASU is meant to improve the accounting for the income tax effect of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory. Currently, U.S. GAAP prohibits the recognition of current and deferred income taxes for intra-entity asset transfers until the asset is sold to a third party. This ASU will now require companies to recognize the income tax effect of an intra-entity asset transfer (other than inventory) when the transaction occurs. This ASU is effective for public companies, for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019 and interim periods within those annual reporting periods. Early adoption is permitted and is to be applied on a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption. This guidance is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.



Item 1.  Legal Proceedings



From time to time we are involved in litigation with respect to matters arising from the ordinary conduct of our business, and currently certain claims are pending against us. In the opinion of management, based upon presently available information, either adequate provision for anticipated costs have been accrued or the ultimate anticipated costs will not materially affect our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.



Item 1A.  Risk Factors



There have been no significant changes to our risk factors since December 31, 2018.



