The Company evaluates the profitability of each tax-paying component on a historic cumulative basis and a forward-looking basis while performing this analysis.
The Company evaluated all positive and negative evidence in concluding it was appropriate to release the majority of the valuation allowance against U.S. net deferred tax assets during fiscal year 2018.
The Company maintains a U.S. valuation allowance related to the realizability of other state tax credits and net operating loss carry-forwards.
You should read the MD&A in conjunction with our unaudited consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains statements that are, or may be considered to be, forward-looking statements within the meaning of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Such factors include the Risk Factors which are set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018, or the 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K and which are incorporated herein by reference , as updated and/or supplemented in subsequent filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC.
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof and are based on information currently and reasonably known to us.
We do not undertake any obligation to release revisions to these forward-looking statements, which may be made to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or to reflect the occurrence or effect of anticipated or unanticipated events.
Any additional precautionary statements made in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K should be read as being applicable to all related forward-looking statements whenever they appear in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
We evaluate the realizability of our deferred tax assets by tax-paying component and assess the need for a valuation allowance on a quarterly basis.
We evaluate the profitability of each tax-paying component on a historic cumulative basis and a forward-looking basis while performing this analysis.
We evaluated all positive and negative evidence in concluding it was appropriate to release the majority of the valuation allowance against U.S. net deferred tax assets during fiscal year 2018.
We maintain a U.S. valuation allowance related to the realizability of other state tax credits and net operating loss carry-forwards.
We continue to maintain valuation allowances against net deferred tax assets in certain foreign tax-paying components as of June 30, 2019.
On July 1, 2019, we completed the sale of our semiconductor cryogenics business that resulted in a taxable gain in the U.S. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019, we may record adjustments to our valuation allowance as we consider new evidence including updated forecasts of U.S. income and utilization of deferred tax assets that were previously expected to expire.
