 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
 The unaudited consolidated financial statements of Brooks Automation, Inc. and its subsidiaries (“Brooks”, or the “Company”) included herein have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP").
All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2017 was derived from the audited annual consolidated financial statements as of the period then ended.
Changes in estimates are recorded in the period in which they occur and become known.
Net foreign currency transaction and remeasurement losses totaled $2.0 million and $0.5 million, respectively, during the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016.
Most of these transactions or balances are denominated in Euros, British Pounds and a variety of Asian currencies.
The Company enters into foreign exchange contracts to reduce its exposure to currency fluctuations.
The forward contract arrangements that the Company enters into typically mature in three months or less.
These transactions do not qualify for hedge accounting.
Foreign exchange contract assets and liabilities are measured and reported at fair value based on observable market inputs and classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy due to a lack of an active market for these contracts.
 As of December 31, 2017, the Company had no assets or liabilities measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis using Level 3 inputs.
 In March 2016, the FASB issued an amendment to the accounting guidance to simplify accounting for share-based payment awards issued to employees.
Additionally, the entity can make an accounting policy election to either estimate the number of awards that are expected to vest, consistent with the current accounting guidance, or account for forfeitures as they occur.
 In March 2016, the FASB issued an amendment to the accounting guidance to simplify accounting for embedded derivatives.
The amendment clarifies the requirements for assessing whether contingent call (put) options that can accelerate the payment of principal on debt instruments are clearly and closely related to the debt host contracts.
An entity performing the assessment in accordance with this guidance is required to assess the embedded call (put) options solely in accordance with the four-step decision process set forth in the guidance.
 In February 2016, the FASB issued new accounting guidance for reporting lease transactions.
For finance leases, interest on a lease liability should be recognized separately from the amortization of the right-of-use asset, while for operating leases, total lease costs are recorded on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
For leases with a term of twelve months or less, a lessee is permitted to make an accounting policy election by class of underlying assets to forgo a recognition of right-of-use assets and corresponding lease liabilities and record a lease expense on a straight-line basis.
Entities should determine at the inception of the arrangement whether a contract represents a lease or contains a lease which is defined as a right to control the use of identified property for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
Additionally, entities should separate the lease components from the non-lease components and allocate the contract consideration on a relative standalone price basis in accordance with provisions of ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018 and should be adopted via a modified retrospective approach with certain optional practical expedients that entities may elect to apply.
 In June 2016, the FASB issued new accounting guidance for reporting credit losses.
The new guidance introduces a new "expected loss" impairment model that applies to most financial assets measured at amortized cost and certain other instruments, including trade and other receivables, loans, held-to-maturity debt securities and other financial assets.
Entities are required to estimate expected credit losses over the life of financial assets and record an allowance against the assets’ amortized cost basis to present them at the amount expected to be collected.
Additionally, the guidance amends the impairment model for available for sale debt securities and requires entities to determine whether all or a portion of the unrealized loss on such debt security is a credit loss.
 In July 2015, the FASB issued an amendment to the accounting guidance to simplify accounting for inventory.
The amendment requires measuring inventory based on the lower of its cost or net realizable value.
 In May 2014, the FASB issued new accounting guidance for reporting revenue recognition.
The guidance provides for the recognition of revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
The Company has established an implementation team to analyze its current portfolio of customer contracts and determine the impact of adopting the guidance.
The implementation team is also responsible for evaluating and designing the necessary changes to the Company’s business processes, policies, systems and controls to support recognition and disclosure under the new guidance.
The Company has established a project plan and substantially completed its preliminary contract assessment.
The Company is currently in the process of completing this assessment and quantifying the implications of the new guidance adoption.
Based on the preliminary assessment, the Company anticipates that the new guidance will impact the timing of revenue recognition for a portion of its life science revenue which is currently accounted for under a percentage of completion method.
 For further information with regard to the Company’s Significant Accounting Policies, please refer to Note 2 "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" to the Company’s consolidated financial statements included in the 2017 Annual Report on Form 10‑K.
 The Company invests in marketable securities that are classified as available-for-sale and records them at fair value in the Company’s unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Marketable securities reported as current assets represent investments that mature within one year from the balance sheet date.
Long-term marketable securities represent investments with maturity dates greater than one year from the balance sheet date.
The securities are valued using matrix pricing and benchmarking and classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy because they are not actively traded.
Matrix pricing is a mathematical technique used to value securities by relying on the securities’ relationship to other benchmark quoted prices.
 Expected maturities could differ from contractual maturities because the security issuers may have the right to prepay obligations without prepayment penalties.
 The Company reviews the marketable securities for impairment at each reporting period to determine if any of the securities have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value.
As of December 31, 2017, the aggregate fair value of the marketable securities in an unrealized loss position was $20.3 million and was comprised of U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government agencies, U.S. corporate securities, municipal securities and bank certificates of deposits.
There were no marketable securities in an unrealized loss position as of September 30, 2017.
 Cash equivalents of $64.2 million and less than $0.1 million, respectively, at December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2017 consist of money market funds and are classified within Level 1 of fair value hierarchy because they are valued using quoted market prices in active markets.
Cash equivalents of $9.1 million and less than $0.1 million, respectively at December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2017 consist primarily of U.S. government agency obligations, municipal securities and bank certificates of deposits with original maturities of less than 90 days and are classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy because they are not actively traded.
 On October 5, 2017, the Company acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of 4titude Limited (“4titude”), a U.K.-based manufacturer of scientific consumables for biological sample materials used in a variety of genomic and DNA analytical applications.
The acquisition of 4titude will expand the Company’s existing offerings of consumables and instruments within the Brooks Life Sciences segment.
The aggregate purchase price of $65.2 million, net of cash acquired, consisted primarily of a cash payment of $64.7 million subject to working capital adjustments and the assumption of the seller’s liabilities of $0.5 million.
 The Company used a market participant approach to record the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the 4titude acquisition.
The purchase price allocation is based on a preliminary valuation and is subject to further adjustments within the measurement period as additional information becomes available related to the fair value of such assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
The fair values of inventory, property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, accrued liabilities, tax-related matters and residual goodwill were preliminary as of December 31, 2017.
The Company will refine such fair value estimates as new information becomes available during the measurement period.
Any adjustments to the purchase price allocation will be made as soon as practicable but no later than one year from the acquisition date.
 Fair values of intangible assets acquired consisted of customer relationships of $21.4 million, completed technology of $5.2 million, backlog of $0.4 million and trademarks of $0.2 million.
The Company used the income approach in accordance with the excess-earnings method to estimate the fair values of customer relationships, backlog and trademarks equal to the present value of the after-tax cash flows attributable to each intangible asset.
The Company used the income approach in accordance with the relief-from-royalty method to estimate the fair value of the completed technology which is equal to the present value of the after-tax royalty savings attributable to owning that intangible asset.
The weighted average amortization periods for intangible assets acquired are 13 years for completed technology, 10 years for customer relationship intangible assets, 1 year for backlog and 1 year for trademarks.
The intangible assets acquired are amortized over the total weighted average period of 10.4 years using methods that approximate the pattern in which the economic benefits are expected to be realized.
 At the closing of the acquisition of 4titude, a cash payment of $0.4 million was placed into escrow which was ascribed to the purchase price.
The escrow was related to potential working capital adjustments and the sellers’ satisfaction of general representations and warranties.
The escrow balance was $0.4 million as of December 31, 2017.
 Goodwill represents the excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of the net assets acquired and has been assigned to the Brooks Life Sciences segment.
Goodwill is primarily the result of expected synergies from combining the operations of 4titude with the Company’s operations and is not deductible for tax purposes.
During the three months ended December 31, 2017, the net loss included non-recurring charges of $1.2 million related to the step-up in value of the acquired inventories and recurring charges of $1.0 million related to amortization expense of acquired intangible assets.
 During the three months ended December 31, 2017, the Company incurred $0.5 million in non-recurring transaction costs with respect to the 4titude acquisition which were recorded in "Selling, general and administrative" expenses within the accompanying unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations.
 Acquisition of Pacific Bio-Material Management, Inc. and Novare, LLC
The Company paid to the sellers cash consideration of $34.3 million, net of cash acquired and subject to working capital adjustments.
As of December 31, 2017, the purchase price allocation is based on a preliminary valuation and subject to further adjustments when the Company obtains additional information during the measurement period.
 At the closing of the acquisition of PBMMI, a cash payment of $3.3 million was placed into escrow which was ascribed to the purchase price.
This escrow arrangement is administered by the Company on behalf of the sellers.
The escrow balances were $2.9 million and $0.3 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2017.
During the three months ended December 31, 2017, the net loss included recurring charges of $0.4 million related to amortization expense of acquired intangible assets.
Please refer to Note 3, "Acquisitions" to the Company's consolidated financial statements included in the 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on PBMMI acquisition.
 On November 28, 2016, the Company acquired 100% of the equity of Cool Lab, LLC ("Cool Lab") from BioCision, LLC ("BioCision").
The Company held a 20% equity ownership interest in BioCision prior to the acquisition.
The Company used a market participant approach to record the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the Cool Lab acquisition.
The purchase price allocation were finalized as of December 31, 2017.
Please refer to Note 3, “Acquisitions” to the Company’s consolidated financial statements included in the 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on this transaction.
 The Company recorded a liability of $0.7 million in the purchase price allocation that represented a preacquisition contingency incurred on the acquisition date.
The obligation is related to a rebate that is due to a particular customer if the annual product sales volume metrics exceed threshold amounts under the provisions of the contract assumed by the Company.
Fair value of such liability was determined based on a probability weighted discounted cash flow model.
During the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, the net loss included recurring charges of $0.4 million and $0.1 million, respectively, related to amortization expense of acquired intangible assets.
 Goodwill represents the excess of net book value over the estimated fair value of net tangible and identifiable intangible assets of a reporting unit.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or more often if impairment indicators are present at the reporting unit level.
The Company elected April 1 as its annual goodwill impairment assessment date and performs additional impairment tests if triggering events occur.
No triggering events indicating goodwill impairment occurred during the three months ended December 31, 2017.
financial statements included in the 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on the goodwill impairment testing performed during fiscal year 2017.
 During the three months ended December 31, 2017, the Company recorded a goodwill increase of $39.1 million primarily related to the acquisition of 4titude which represented the excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of the net assets acquired.
Please refer to the Note 4 "Acquisitions" for further information on this transaction.
 Amortization expense for intangible assets was $5.5 million and $4.1 million, respectively, during the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016.
 The Company accounts for certain of its investments using the equity method of accounting and records its proportionate share of the investee’s earnings in its results of operations with a corresponding increase in the carrying value of the investment.
 The Company and ULVAC Corporation of Chigasaki, Japan each own a 50% stake in the joint venture, ULVAC Cryogenics, Inc (“UCI”).
UCI manufactures and sells cryogenic vacuum pumps, principally to ULVAC Corporation.
 The carrying value of the investment in UCI was $30.9 million and $28.6 million, respectively, at December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2017.
During the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, the Company recorded income of $2.2 million and $2.4 million, respectively, representing its proportionate share of UCI’s earnings.
Management fee payments received by the Company from UCI were $0.3 million during each of the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016.
The proceeds from the line of credit are available for permitted acquisitions and general corporate purposes.
and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC (collectively, the “lenders”).
and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
Based on the amended terms of the credit agreement, the line of credit continues to provide for revolving credit financing of up to $75 million, subject to borrowing base availability.
Borrowing base availability under the amended line of credit excludes collateral related to fixed assets and is redetermined periodically based on certain percentage of certain eligible U.S. assets, including accounts receivable and inventory.
The sublimits for letters of credit were reduced to $7.5 million under the amended terms of the credit agreement.
All outstanding borrowings under the credit agreement are guaranteed by the Company and BioStorage Technologies, Inc., its wholly-owned subsidiary (“Guarantor”), and subordinated to the obligations under the term loan which are secured by a first priority lien on substantially all of the assets of the Company and the Guarantor, other than accounts receivable and inventory.
Please refer to Note 8, “Debt”, for further information on the term loan transaction.
 There were no amounts outstanding under the line of credit as of December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2017.
The Company records commitment fees and other costs directly associated with obtaining line of credit financing as deferred financing costs which are presented within "Other assets" in the accompanying unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheets.
At December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2017, deferred financing costs were $0.6 million and $0.5 million, respectively.
The line of credit contains certain customary representations and warranties, a financial covenant, affirmative and negative covenants, as well as events of default.
The Company was in compliance with the line of credit covenants as of December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2017.
 On October 4, 2017, the Company entered into a $200.0 million term loan with the lenders.
The term loan was issued at $197.6 million, or 98.8% of its par value, resulting in a discount of $2.4 million, or 1.2%, which represented loan origination fees paid at the closing.
The Company incurred additional deferred financing costs of $0.4 million during the three months ended December 31, 2017.
The loan proceeds are be used for general corporate purposes, including acquisitions.
The loan principal amount may be increased by an aggregate amount equal to $75.0 million plus any voluntary repayments of the term loans plus an amount such that the secured leverage ratio of the Company is less than 3.00 to 1.00.
 The Company’s obligations under the term loan are guaranteed by the Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary, BioStorage Technologies, Inc. (the “guarantor”), subject to the terms and conditions of the term loan agreement.
The Company and the guarantor granted the lenders a perfected first priority security interest in substantially all of the assets of the Company and the guarantor to secure the repayment of the term loan.
The principal is payable in installments equal to 0.25% of the initial principal amount of the term loans on March 31st, June 30th, September 30th and December 31st of each year, with any remaining amount of principal becoming due and payable on the maturity date.
The Company is required to begin making principal payments commencing with the second quarter of fiscal year 2018.
All accrued and unpaid interest on ABR Borrowings shall be due and payable at the same time as the loan principal installments.
All accrued and unpaid interest on Eurodollar Borrowings shall be due on the last day of each interest period elected by the Company for such Eurodollar Borrowings, except for interest periods of more than three months in which case all accrued and unpaid interest shall be due and payable every three months.
The Company would be required to redeem the term loan at the principal amount then outstanding upon occurrence of certain events, including (i) net proceeds received from the sale or other disposition of the Company’s or guarantor’ assets, subject to certain limitations, (ii) casualty and condemnation proceeds received by the Company or the guarantor, subject to certain exceptions, (iii) net proceeds received by the Company or the guarantor from the issuance of debt or disqualified capital stock after October 4, 2017.
 The Company records commitment fees and other costs directly associated with obtaining term loan financing as deferred financing costs which are presented as a reduction of the term loan principal balance in the accompanying unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Such costs are accreted over the term of the loan using the effective interest rate method and are included in “Interest expense” in the accompanying unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations.
At December 31, 2017, deferred financing costs were $2.7 million.
If any of the events of default occur and are not waived or cured within applicable grace periods, any unpaid amounts under the term loan agreement will bear an annual interest rate at 2.00% above the rate otherwise applicable under the terms and conditions of such agreement.
As of December 31, 2017, the Company was in compliance with all covenants and conditions under the term loan agreement.
 As of December 31, 2017, estimated fair value of the term loan outstanding principal balance approximates its carrying value.
The fair value was determined based on observable market inputs and classified within Level 2 of fair value hierarchy due to a lack of an active market for this term loan or a similar loan instrument.
 The Company recorded an income tax provision of $2.9 million and $2.8 million, respectively, during the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016.
The tax provision for the three months ended December 31, 2017 was primarily driven by the foreign income generated during the quarter.
The income tax provision for the three months ended December 31, 2016 was primarily driven by foreign income generated during the quarter, partially offset by $0.7 million of tax benefits related to the reduction of reserves for unrecognized tax benefits.
where the accounting is incomplete.
These amounts are subject to adjustments during a measurement period of up to one year beginning in the reporting period of the enactment date.
The Company has estimated that its accumulated foreign earnings are $120 million which is a provisional amount subject to the measurement period described in Staff Accounting Bulletin 118.
 As of December 31, 2017, the Company maintains its indefinite reinvestment assertion on foreign earnings until the Company can complete its assessment of Tax Reform impacts on reinvestment plans, which will continue to be evaluated during the measurement period described in SAB 118.
 The Company evaluates the realizability of its deferred tax assets by tax-paying component and assesses the need for a valuation allowance on a quarterly basis.
 As previously described, the Company maintains a full valuation allowance on its U.S. deferred tax assets.
During the three months ended December 31, 2017, the Company considered the impacts of Tax Reform that will be immediately effective and those that will be effective for future years.
In consideration of the effects of Tax Reform, the Company is still in the process of fully evaluating, during the measurement period under SAB 118, all future impacts of the changes as they relate to the need for the U.S. valuation allowance.
The Company currently anticipates that it is reasonably possible that the unrecognized tax benefits will be reduced by approximately $0.2 million within the next twelve months.
 10.
 Reserves for excess and obsolete inventory were $22.9 million and $23.5 million, respectively, at December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2017.
 During the three months ended December 31, 2017 and the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017, the Company had cumulative capitalized direct costs of $5.0 million and $4.7 million, respectively, associated with the development of software for its internal use which are included within "Property, plant and equipment, net" in the accompanying unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheets.
During the three months ended December 31, 2017, the Company capitalized direct costs of $0.3 million associated with development of software for its internal use.
 The Company establishes reserves for estimated costs of product warranties based on historical information.
Product warranty reserves are recorded at the time product revenue is recognized, and retrofit accruals are recorded at the time retrofit programs are established.
The Company’s warranty obligation is affected by product failure rates, utilization levels, material usage, service delivery costs incurred in correcting a product failure and supplier warranties on parts delivered to the Company.
The Company recognizes stock-based compensation expense on a straight-line basis, net of estimated forfeitures, over the requisite service period.
Additionally, the Company assesses the likelihood of achieving the performance goals against previously established performance targets in accordance with the Company’s long-term equity incentive plan for stock-based awards that vest upon or after the satisfaction of these goals.
 During the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, the Company granted and issued 546 and 815 units, respectively, to the members of the Company’s Board of Directors which were related to deferred quarterly dividends.
There were no annual awards of unrestricted shares of the Company stock and compensation-related restricted stock units granted to the members of the Company's Board of Directors during the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
 Performance-based restricted stock units are earned based on the achievement of performance criteria established by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.
The criteria for performance-based awards are weighted and have threshold, target and maximum performance goals.
 Performance-based awards granted in fiscal year 2017 allow participants to earn 100% of a targeted number of restricted stock units if the Company’s performance meets its target for each applicable financial metric, and up to a maximum of 200% of the restricted stock units target if the Company’s performance for such metrics meets the maximum threshold.
Performance below the minimum threshold for each financial metric results in award forfeitures.
Performance goals will be measured over a three year period at the end of fiscal year 2020 to determine the number of units earned by recipients who continue to meet a service requirement.
Earned units for recipients who continue to meet the service requirements vest on the date the Company’s Board of Directors determines the number of units earned, which will be approximately the third anniversary of the grant date.
 Performance-based awards granted in fiscal year 2016 also include provisions that allow participants to earn threshold, target and maximum awards ranging from 0% of the award for performance below the minimum threshold, 100% of the award for performance at target, and up to a maximum of 200% of the award if the Company achieves the maximum performance goals.
 The weighted average grant date fair value of restricted stock units granted during the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was $34.25 and $13.93, respectively.
The fair value of restricted stock units vested during the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was $19.0 million and $11.3 million, respectively.
During the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, the Company remitted $6.3 million and $3.8 million, respectively, for withholding taxes on vested restricted stock units, of which $0.1 million was paid by the Company during the three months ended December 31, 2016.
There were no taxes on vested restricted stock units paid by the Company during the three months ended December 31, 2017.
During the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, the Company received $6.3 million and $3.7 million, respectively, in cash proceeds from employees to satisfy their tax obligations as a result of share issuances.
 As of December 31, 2017, the unrecognized compensation cost related to restricted stock units that are expected to vest is $33.2 million and will be recognized over an estimated weighted average service period of approximately 1.9 years.
 The Company maintains an Employee Stock Purchase Plan that allows its employees to purchase shares of common stock at a price equal to 85% of the fair market value of the Company’s stock at the beginning or the end of the semi-annual period, whichever is lower.
There were no shares purchased by employees or issued by the Company under the employee stock purchase plan during the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016.
 12.
 During the three months ended December 31, 2017, 190,000 antidilutive restricted stock units were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share based on the treasury stock method.
There were no such awards during the three months ended December 31, 2016.
 As of December 31, 2017, accrued restructuring costs of $1.1 million were primarily attributable to the restructuring actions within the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment and comprised primarily of $0.8 million related to the consolidation of the Jena, Germany repair facility and $0.2 million related to streamlining field service operations.
Accrued restructuring costs are expected to be paid within the next twelve months.
The Company reports its financial results for two operating and reportable segments which consist of Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment and Brooks Life Sciences segment.
 The Company had one customer within the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment that accounted for 10% or more of its consolidated revenue, at 11%, during each of the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016.
As of December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2017, the Company had no customers that accounted for 10% or more of the Company’s total receivables.
 For purposes of determining the percentage of revenue generated from any of the Company’s original equipment manufacturer (the "OEM") customers, the Company does not include revenue from products sold to contract manufacturer customers who in turn sell to the OEMs.
If the Company included revenue from products sold to contract manufacturer customers supporting the Company’s OEM customers, the percentage of the Company’s total revenue derived from certain OEM customers would be higher.
 At each of December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2017, the Company had approximately $3.5 million of letters of credit outstanding related primarily to customer advances and other performance obligations.
These arrangements guarantee the refund of advance payments received from our customers in the event that the product is not delivered or warranty obligations are not fulfilled in accordance with the contract terms.
These obligations could be called by the beneficiaries at any time before the expiration date of the particular letter of credit if the Company fails to meet certain contractual requirements.
None of these obligations were called during the three months ended December 31, 2017 and the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017, and the Company currently does not anticipate any of these obligations to be called in the near future.
 The Company has non-cancellable contracts and purchase orders for inventory of $128.6 million and $122.0 million, respectively, at December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2017.
reasonable ranges of potential losses.
 On January 31, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.10 per share payable on March 23, 2018 to common stockholders of record as of March 2, 2018.
Dividends are declared at the discretion of the Company’s Board of Directors and depend on the Company’s actual cash flows from operations, its financial condition and capital requirements and any other factors the Company’s Board of Directors may consider relevant.
 Item 1A.
Risk Factors in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10‑K.
