The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
The unaudited consolidated financial statements of Brooks Automation, Inc. and its subsidiaries (“Brooks”, or the “Company”) included herein have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”).
All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2018 was derived from the audited annual consolidated financial statements as of the period then ended.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to sell its semiconductor cryogenics business to Edwards Vacuum LLC (a member of the Atlas Copco Group), (the “Disposition”).
The Company determined that the semiconductor cryogenics business met the “held for sale” criteria and the “discontinued operations” criteria in accordance with Financial Accounting Standard Boards (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 205, Presentation of Financial Statements, (“FASB ASC 205”) as of September 30, 2018.
The Consolidated Balance Sheets and Consolidated Statements of Operations, and the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements were restated for all periods presented to reflect the discontinuation of the semiconductor cryogenics business, in accordance with FASB ASC 205.
The discussion in the notes to these Consolidated Financial Statements, unless otherwise noted, relate solely to the Company's continuing operations.
Please refer to Note 3, “Discontinued Operations” for further information.
On July 1, 2019, the Company completed the Disposition for $675.0 million, subject to adjustments for working capital and other items.
In connection with the closing the Company entered into Amendment No.
2 to the Asset Purchase Agreement with the purchaser.
As part of this amendment, liabilities assumed by the purchaser were revised to include accounts payable related to the semiconductor cryogenics business.
As of September 30, 2018, the Company has revised its accounts payable balance on a continuing operations basis to exclude accounts payable related to the semiconductor cryogenics business and revised its current liabilities held for sale balance to include accounts payable related to the semiconductor cryogenics business on its Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Accounts payable and total liabilities of the discontinued operation have also been revised in Note 3, “Discontinued Operations” below.
As of September 30, 2018, the accounts payable balance related to the semiconductor cryogenics business was $11.1 million.
The Company will also revise these balances in previously reported historical periods in the event those periods are presented in future filings.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, the Company identified a misclassification related to the presentation of the product and service revenue and the cost of product and service revenue related to the GENEWIZ Group (“GENEWIZ”) in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Operations for the three months ended December 31, 2018.
service revenue line items in the Consolidated Statements of Operations in the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the three months ended December 31, 2018.
GENEWIZ was acquired during the three months ended December 31, 2018 and therefore the misclassification did not impact any other historical periods.
The Company concluded this misclassification was not material individually or in the aggregate to the financial statements presented for the three months ended December 31, 2018, and therefore, amendments of the previously filed Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the three months ended December 31, 2018 were not required.
Changes in estimates are recorded in the period in which they occur and become known.
Net foreign currency transaction and remeasurement losses totaled $0.5 million and $0.6 million, respectively, during the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 and $1.1 million and $3.1 million, respectively, during the nine months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018.
Foreign exchange contract assets and liabilities are measured and reported at fair value based on observable market inputs and classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy described below due to a lack of an active market for these contracts.
As of June 30, 2019, the Company had no assets or liabilities measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis using Level 3 inputs.
The amendments in ASU 2019-05 allow entities to elect the fair value option on certain financial instruments.
ASU 2019-05 amends ASU 2016-13 to allow companies to irrevocably elect, upon adoption of ASU 2016-13, the fair value option on financial instruments that were previously recorded at amortized cost and are within the scope of ASC 326-20 if the instruments are eligible for the fair value option under ASC 825-10.
Entities are required to make this election on an instrument-by-instrument basis.
ASU 2019-05’s amendments should be applied “on a modified-retrospective basis by means of a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the statement of financial position as of the date that an entity adopted the amendments in ASU 2016-13.” Certain disclosures are required.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this ASU.
In April 2019, the FASB issued ASU 2019-04, Codification Improvements to Topic 326, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses, Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging, and Topic 825, Financial Instruments, which makes targeted changes to standards on credit losses, hedging, and recognizing and measuring financial instruments to clarify them and address implementation issues.
The amendments clarify the scope of the credit losses standard and address issues related to accrued interest receivable balances, recoveries, variable interest rates and prepayments, among other things.
On recognizing and measuring financial instruments, the amendments address the scope of the guidance, the requirement for remeasurement under ASC 820 when using the measurement alternative, certain disclosure requirements and which equity securities have to be remeasured at historical exchange rates.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this ASU.
The targeted changes to the lessor accounting are not applicable to the Company because it is not in the industry to be targeted by the guidance.
The ASU clarifies that companies are exempt from making the interim period transition disclosures required by ASC 250, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections, for the period in which a change in accounting principle is made as a result of adopting ASC 842.
This interim period disclosure exemption is consistent with ASC 842, which already allowed companies to exclude the annual effect of the accounting change on income from continuing operations, net income and per-share amounts for periods post-adoption.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this ASU.
hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software (and hosting arrangements that include an internal-use software license).
The provisions may be adopted prospectively or retrospectively.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this ASU.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-14, Disclosure Framework — Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Defined Benefit Plans, which amends ASC 715 to add, remove, and clarify disclosure requirements related to defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans.
The amendment removes disclosure requirement for accumulated other comprehensive income expected to be recognized over the next year, information about plan assets to be returned to the entity, and the effects of a one-percentage-point change on the assumed health care costs and the effect of this change in rates on service cost, interest cost, and the benefit obligation for postretirement health care benefits.
The ASU does not amend the interim disclosure requirements of ASC 715-20.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this ASU.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments—Credit Losses (Topic 326), which amends ASC 326 to add, remove, and clarify disclosure requirements related to credit losses of financial instruments.
The new guidance introduces a new "expected loss" impairment model which applies to most financial assets measured at amortized cost and certain other instruments, including trade and other receivables, loans, held-to-maturity debt securities and other financial assets.
Entities are required to estimate expected credit losses over the life of financial assets and record an allowance against the assets’ amortized cost basis to present them at the amount expected to be collected.
Additionally, the guidance amends the impairment model for available for sale debt securities and requires entities to determine whether all or a portion of the unrealized loss on such debt security is a credit loss.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), an amendment of the FASB ASC.
For finance leases, interest on a lease liability should be recognized separately from the amortization of the right-of-use asset, while for operating leases, total lease costs are recorded on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
For leases with a term of twelve months or less, a lessee is permitted to make an accounting policy election by class of underlying assets to forgo a recognition of right-of-use assets and corresponding lease liabilities and record a lease expense on a straight-line basis.
Entities should determine at the inception of the arrangement whether a contract represents a lease or contains a lease which is defined as a right to control the use of identified property for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
Additionally, entities should separate the lease components from the non-lease components and allocate the contract consideration on a relative standalone price basis in accordance with provisions of ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018 and should be adopted via a modified retrospective approach with certain optional practical expedients that entities may elect to apply.
In May 2014, the FASB issued new accounting guidance for reporting revenue recognition, ASC 606 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (“ASC 606”).
The guidance provides for the recognition of revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
The guidance also specifies the accounting for certain costs to obtain and fulfill a contract, as codified in ASC 340-40 Accounting for Other Assets and Deferred Costs (“ASC 340-40”).
The Company adopted this standard effective October 1, 2018, using the modified retrospective method and has only applied this method to contracts that were not completed as of the effective date and all new contracts initiated on or after the effective date.
Results for reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2018 are presented under ASC 606, while prior period amounts have not been restated and continue to be reported in accordance with the governing revenue recognition standards applicable to that period.
Upon adoption of ASC 606, the Company recorded a cumulative effect adjustment of $0.9 million, net of a tax adjustment of $0.4 million, which resulted in an increase to the opening accumulated deficit balance on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, primarily driven by deferral of previously recognized revenue within the Brooks Life Sciences segment,
offset by deferral of previously recognized commission expense within the Brooks Life Sciences segment and acceleration of revenue within the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment.
A portion of the adjustment related to the acceleration of revenue within the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment resulted from the change in the revenue recognition rules.
Upon the adoption of ASC 606, the Company is no longer required to defer revenue in accordance with billing constraints defined in the contract with the customer.
The change impacted the Company’s semiconductor contamination control solutions revenue stream as under ASC 606, the Company recognizes revenue in an amount equivalent to the transfer of control that has occurred.
This adjustment is derived from the new requirement to recognize revenue associated with certain sample life cycle management solutions transactions over time under ASC 606, while historically these transactions have been recorded at a point in time.
Registration fees for these samples were previously recognized as revenue at a point in time upon completion of the registration and are now required to be recognized ratably over the period of benefit under ASC 606.
As a result, upon adopting ASC 606, the Company deferred previously recognized registration fee revenue for contracts not completed as of the effective date.
This change resulted in a decrease to accumulated deficit of $3.1 million as of October 1, 2018.
 A portion of the adjustment is related to the deferral of previously recognized commission expense within the Brooks Life Science segment.
This portion of the adjustment is derived from the new requirement to recognize the cost to obtain certain transactions over time under ASC 340-40, while historically this expense has been recognized at a point in time.
The standard requires certain costs incurred to obtain a contract to be recorded as an asset when incurred and expensed as the transfer of control of the underlying performance obligations occur or over the estimated customer life, depending on the nature of the underlying contract.
As a result, upon adopting ASC 606, the Company deferred previously recognized costs for contracts not completed as of the effective date.
This change resulted in an increase to accumulated deficit of $1.5 million as of October 1, 2018.
Additional changes to the Company’s accumulated deficit were made as the result of adopting ASC 606.
These changes, which resulted in a cumulative decrease to accumulated deficit of $0.2 million as of October 1, 2018, were driven by the identification of additional performance obligations as well as changes in the transfer of control of certain performance obligations across both the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group and Brooks Life Science segments.
The additional changes to the Company’s accumulated deficit included a cumulative decrease to accumulated deficit of $0.2 million from discontinued operations.
The difference between the reported results and the results without the adoption of ASC 606 was primarily driven from the elimination of revenue constraints due to billing limitations that resulted in acceleration of revenue within the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment and the deferral of fees associated with the registration of biological samples within the Brooks Life Science segment.
Amortization of costs to obtain a contract capitalized through the cumulative effect adjustment described above have resulted in additional expense in the current period under ASC 606.
For further information with regard to the Company’s significant accounting policies, please refer to Note 2 "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" to the Company’s consolidated financial statements included in the 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
On August 27, 2018, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to sell its semiconductor cryogenics business to Edwards Vacuum LLC (a member of the Atlas Copco Group) (“Edwards”) for $675.0 million in cash, subject to adjustments.
On July 1, 2019, the Company completed the sale for $675.0 million, subject to adjustments for working
The semiconductor cryogenics business consists of the CTI pump business, Polycold chiller business, the related services business and the Company's 50% share in Ulvac Cryogenics, Inc., a joint venture based in Japan.
The semiconductor cryogenics business was originally acquired by the Company in its 2005 merger with Helix Technology Corporation.
The operating results of the semiconductor cryogenics business had been included in the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment before the plan of disposition.
The transition service agreement outlines the information technology, people, and facility support the Company will provide to Edwards for a period up to 9 months after transaction closing date.
The supply agreement allows the Company to purchase CTI and Polycold goods at cost from Edwards up to an aggregate amount equal to $1.0 million during the one-year term after closing of the Disposition.
Edwards will have the option to renew each lease at the then current market rates after the initial three-year lease term has ended.
This Disposition is consistent with the Company’s long-standing strategy to increase shareholder value by accelerating the growth of its Life Sciences business with further acquisitions and strengthening its semiconductor automation business with opportunistic acquisitions.
The Disposition met the "held for sale" criteria and the “discontinued operation” criteria in accordance with FASB ASC 205 as of September 30, 2018.
The table above reflects revenue for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019 in accordance with ASC 606, while results for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018 have not been restated and are reported in accordance with the governing revenue recognition standards applicable to those periods prior to adoption of ASC 606.
The Company performed its fiscal year 2018 annual goodwill impairment analysis in April 2018.
This analysis was updated upon announcement of entering into a definitive agreement for the Disposition for the year ended September 30, 2018.
The Company concluded that there was no impairment indicator related to the goodwill of the semiconductor cryogenics business at either date the impairment analysis was performed.
The Company did not include goodwill related to the semiconductor cryogenics business in its annual impairment analysis in April 2019, as the Disposition was classified as assets held for sale.
The Company invests in marketable securities that are classified as available-for-sale and records them at fair value in the Company’s unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Marketable securities reported as current assets represent investments that mature within one year from the balance sheet date.
Long-term marketable securities represent investments with maturity dates greater than one year from the balance sheet date.
The securities are valued using matrix pricing and benchmarking and classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy because they are not actively traded.
Matrix pricing is a mathematical technique used to value securities by relying on the securities’ relationship to other benchmark quoted prices.
There were no sales of marketable securities during the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018.
During the nine months ended June 30, 2019, the Company sold marketable securities with a fair value and amortized cost of $49.4 million and $49.5 million, respectively, and recognized net losses of $0.1 million.
Expected maturities could differ from contractual maturities because the security issuers may have the right to prepay obligations without prepayment penalties.
The Company reviews the marketable securities for impairment at each reporting period to determine if any of the securities have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value.
There were no securities in an unrealized loss position as of June 30, 2019.
The aggregate fair value of the marketable securities in an unrealized loss position was $43.0 million as of September 30, 2018.
As of September 30, 2018, marketable securities in an unrealized loss position were comprised primarily of U.S. Treasury securities, corporate securities, and municipal securities.
The unrealized losses were attributable to changes in interest rates that impacted the value of the investments.
Cash equivalents of less than $0.1 million and $50.6 million, respectively, at June 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018 consist of money market funds and are classified within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy because they are valued using quoted market prices in active markets.
GENEWIZ provides genomics services that enable research scientists to advance their discoveries within the pharmaceutical, academic, biotechnology, agriculture and other markets.
This transaction has added a new and innovative platform which the Company expects to leverage, along with its core capabilities, to add even more value to samples under the Company’s care.
The total cash purchase price for the acquisition was $442.7 million, net of cash acquired, which included a working capital settlement of $0.4 million.
The Company used the proceeds of the incremental term loan described in Note 8, “Debt” to pay a portion of the purchase price.
The Company also retained an amount equal to $1.5 million as collateral for any adjustment shortfall based on the final merger consideration calculation.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, the final merger consideration was calculated to be $4.0 million less than the merger consideration paid at closing.
To satisfy the shortfall, the Company reversed the $1.5 million liability associated with the holdback, received approval from the former shareholders to retain $0.7 million of funds the Company received on their behalf, and collected $1.8 million from the escrow accounts.
The Company recorded the assets acquired and liabilities assumed related to GENEWIZ at their fair values as of the acquisition date, from a market participant’s perspective.
The Company applied variations of the income approach to estimate the fair values of the intangibles assets acquired.
The identifiable intangible assets include customer relationships (excess earnings method) of $125.5 million with a useful life of 14 years, completed technology (relief from royalty method) of $44.5 million with useful lives from 10 to 15 years and trademarks (relief from royalty method) of $19.1 million with a useful life of 13 years.
During the three months ended June 30, 2019, the Company recorded a measurement adjustment related to the revised valuation of the intangible assets which increased intangible assets by $0.6 million.
The additional amortization related to this adjustment was recorded during the three months ended June 30, 2019.
Goodwill of $236.0 million largely reflects the potential synergies and expansion of the Company’s core technologies and offerings in the Life Sciences business.
The goodwill from this acquisition is reported within the Brooks Life Sciences segment and is not tax deductible.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, a $0.3 million measurement period adjustment was recorded related to the working capital settlement which increased goodwill.
During the three months ended June 30, 2019, the Company recorded measurement period adjustments which resulted in a net decrease to goodwill of $0.8 million.
The adjustment had no impact on goodwill.
During the three months ended June 30, 2019, and the period since acquisition, net income included $3.3 million and $8.2 million, respectively, related to amortization expense of acquired intangible assets.
The Company incurred $3.8 million in transaction costs with respect to the GENEWIZ
acquisition during fiscal year 2018.
The unaudited pro forma financial information presented in the table above has been adjusted to give effect to adjustments that are (1) directly related to the acquisition; (2) factually supportable; and (3) expect to have a continuing impact.
On April 6, 2018, the Company acquired approximately 93% of the outstanding capital stock of Tec-Sem Group AG (“Tec-Sem”), a Switzerland-based manufacturer of semiconductor fabrication automation equipment with a focus on reticle management.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company acquired the remaining 7% noncontrolling interest upon the completion of certain procedural steps.
The total cash payment to acquire the business was $15.6 million, net of cash acquired and subject to working capital adjustments.
The acquisition of Tec-Sem has expanded the Company’s contamination control solutions business within the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment.
The Company applied variations of the income approach to estimate the fair values of the intangibles assets acquired.
The intangible assets acquired are amortized over the total weighted average period of 8.6 years using methods that approximate the pattern in which the economic benefits are expected to be realized.
Goodwill of $7.7 million largely reflects the potential synergies and expansion of technical capabilities to the Company's existing contamination control solutions business.
The goodwill from this acquisition is reported within the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment and is not tax deductible.
As part of the acquisition, the Company assumed all the assets and liabilities of Tec-Sem’s Swiss defined benefit plan, which covered substantially all its full-time employees.
At acquisition date, the plan was fully funded for each employee’s pension contribution plus an expected rate of return equal to the statutory discount rate.
Total plan assets and plan liability were $5.1 million and $7.9 million, respectively, at acquisition date.
The Company recorded a liability of $2.8 million for the unfunded projected benefit obligation related to each plan participant’s future services.
The Company reports the results of operations for Tec-Sem in the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment starting from the acquisition date.
The revenues and net income from Tec-Sem included in the Company's consolidated results for the nine months ended June 30, 2019 were $27.1 million and $7.0 million, respectively.
During the three months ended June 30, 2019, the net income included $0.5 million related to amortization expense of acquired intangible assets.
During the nine months ended June 30, 2019, the net income included $0.2 million related to the step-up in value of the acquired inventories and $2.2 million related to amortization expense of acquired intangible assets.
The remaining $0.8 million of the escrow balance is related to a performance obligation that the Company assumed at the acquisition date for the transfer of non-core wafer stocker technology to an unrelated third party.
The Company collected $0.4 million from the escrow related to the delivery of the technology during the second quarter of fiscal year 2019.
On October 5, 2017, the Company acquired all the outstanding capital stock of 4titude Limited (“4titude”), a U.K.-based manufacturer of scientific consumables for biological sample materials used in a variety of genomic and DNA analytical applications.
The acquisition of 4titude has expanded the Company’s existing offerings of consumables and instruments within the Brooks Life Sciences segment.
The aggregate purchase price of $65.1 million, net of cash acquired, consisted primarily of a cash payment of $64.8 million subject to working capital adjustments and the assumption of the seller’s liabilities of $0.4 million.
The Company applied variations of the income approach to estimate the fair values of the intangibles assets acquired.
The identified intangible assets include customer relationships (excess earnings method) of $21.4 million with a useful life of 10 years, completed technology (relief from royalty method) of $5.2 million with a useful life of 13 years, backlog (excess earnings method) of $0.4 million with a useful life of 1 year and trademarks (excess earnings method) of $0.2 million with a useful life of 1 year.
The intangible assets acquired are amortized over the total weighted average period of 10.4 years using methods that approximate the pattern in which the economic benefits are expected to be realized.
At the closing of the acquisition of 4titude, a cash payment of $0.4 million was placed into escrow which was ascribed to the purchase price.
Goodwill represents the excess of the consideration paid over the fair value of the net assets acquired and has been assigned to the Brooks Life Sciences segment.
Goodwill is primarily the result of expected synergies from combining the operations of 4titude with the Company’s operations and is not deductible for tax purposes.
During the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019, the net income or loss included recurring charges of $0.9 million and $2.8 million, respectively, related to amortization expense of acquired intangible assets.
On April 20, 2018, the Company acquired BioSpeciMan Corporation (“BioSpeciMan”), a Canadian provider of storage services for biological sample materials.
BioSpeciMan, founded in 2002, provides temperature controlled biological sample storage services to an attractive mix of pharma, biotech and contract lab customers.
This acquisition has expanded customer relationships and geographic reach within its growing sample management storage services business in the Brooks Life Sciences segment.
 The Company allocated the purchase price of $5.2 million based on the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired as of the acquisition date, which included $0.3 million of accounts receivable, $2.6 million of customer relationships, $2.7 million of goodwill and $0.7 million of assumed liabilities.
The Company applied the excess earnings method, a variation of the income approach to determine the fair value of the customer relationship intangible asset.
The goodwill from this acquisition is reported within the Brooks Life Sciences segment and is not tax deductible.
At the acquisition date, a cash payment of $0.5 million was held back for potential working capital adjustments and the sellers' satisfaction of general representations and warranties.
These holdback payments were ascribed to the purchase price.
Goodwill represents the excess of net book value over the estimated fair value of net tangible and identifiable intangible assets of a reporting unit.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or more often if impairment indicators are present at the reporting unit level.
No triggering events indicating goodwill impairment occurred during the nine months ended June 30, 2019.
If the Company determines, based on this assessment, that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, it performs a quantitative goodwill impairment test by comparing the reporting unit’s fair value with its carrying value.
An impairment loss is recognized for the amount by which the reporting unit’s carrying value exceeds its fair value, up to the total amount of goodwill allocated to the reporting unit.
No impairment loss is recognized if the fair value of the reporting exceeds its carrying value.
As of June 30, 2019, the Company completed the annual goodwill impairment test for its five reporting units, including Automation Solutions, Contamination Control Solutions and Global Semiconductor Services within the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment, as well as Sample Management and GENEWIZ within the Brooks Life Sciences segment.
Based on the test results, the Company determined that no adjustment to goodwill was necessary.
The Company conducted a qualitative assessment for three reporting units within the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment and determined that it was more likely than not that their fair values were more than their carrying values.
The Company performed the quantitative goodwill impairment test for the two reporting units within the Brooks Life Sciences segment.
The Company determined that no adjustment to goodwill was necessary for these two reporting units.
Sample Management reporting unit’s fair value significantly exceeded book value.
The GENEWIZ reporting unit, which was recently acquired, had a fair value slightly above its book value.
During the nine months ended June 30, 2019, the Company recorded a goodwill increase of $234.7 million primarily related to the acquisition of GENEWIZ, partially offset by the impact of foreign currency translation adjustments.
Please refer to Note 5 "Acquisitions" for further information on this transaction.
Amortization expense for intangible assets was $26.2 million and $17.7 million, respectively, during the nine months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018.
and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
that provides for revolving credit facility of up to $75.0 million, subject to borrowing base availability, as defined in the credit agreement.
The proceeds from the line of credit are available for permitted acquisitions and general corporate purposes.
and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC (collectively, the “lenders”).
Based on the amended terms of the credit agreement, the line of credit continues to provide for a revolving credit facility of up to $75.0 million, subject to borrowing base availability.
Borrowing base availability under the amended credit agreement excludes collateral related to fixed assets and is redetermined periodically based on certain percentage of certain eligible U.S. assets, including accounts receivable and inventory.
The sub-limits for letters of credit were reduced to $7.5 million under the amended terms of the credit agreement.
All outstanding borrowings under the credit agreement are guaranteed by the Company and BioStorage Technologies, Inc., the Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary (“Biostorage”), and subordinated to the obligations under the term loan which are secured by a first priority lien on substantially all of the assets of the Company and Biostorage, other than accounts receivable and inventory.
Please refer to Note 8, “Debt”, for further information on the term loan transaction.
As of June 30, 2019, the Company had approximately $48.7 million available for borrowing under the line of credit.
There were no amounts outstanding under the line of credit as of June 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018.
Deferred financing costs were $0.4 million and $0.5 million, respectively, at June 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018.
Such costs are amortized over the term of the related facility arrangement and are included in “Interest expense” in the accompanying unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations.
The Company was in compliance with the line of credit covenants as of June 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018.
On October 4, 2017, the Company entered into a $200.0 million term loan with the lenders pursuant to the terms of a credit agreement.
The term loan was issued at $197.6 million, or 98.8% of its par value, resulting in a discount of $2.4 million, or 1.2%, which represented loan origination fees paid at the closing.
On November 15, 2018, the Company entered into an incremental amendment (the “Amendment”) to the existing credit agreement.
Under the Amendment, the Company obtained an incremental term loan in an aggregate principal amount of $350.0 million.
The proceeds of the incremental term loan were used to finance a portion of the purchase price for the Company’s acquisition of GENEWIZ.
Except as provided in the Amendment, the incremental term loan was subject to the same terms and conditions as set forth in the existing credit agreement.
The loan principal amount under the credit agreement may be increased by an aggregate amount equal to $75.0 million plus any voluntary repayments of the term loans plus any additional amount such that the secured leverage ratio of the Company is less than 3.00 to 1.00.
The Company wrote off the carrying value of the incremental term loan of $340.1 million as of February 15, 2019 and recorded the syndicated incremental term loan at its present value for $349.1 million and a loss on debt extinguishment for $9.1 million.
The syndicated incremental term loan was issued at $345.2 million, or 98.9% of its par value resulting in a discount of $4.0 million which represented financing costs which are presented as
Under the terms of the Amendment, the Company was entitled to elect that the borrowings comprising the incremental term loan bear interest at a rate per annum equal to (a) the Alternate Base Rate (the “ABR”) plus 1.50%; or (b) the Adjusted LIBOR plus 2.50%.
ABR is equal to the highest of (a) the federal funds effective rate plus 0.50%, (b) the prime rate, or (c) one-month LIBOR rate plus 1.00%.
The LIBOR was equal to the rate for Eurodollar deposits in the London interbank market for a period of one, two, three or six months, in each case selected by the Company.
“Adjusted LIBOR” was the LIBOR as adjusted for statutory reserve requirements for Eurodollar liabilities.
On February 15, 2019, in connection with the syndication of the incremental term loan, the Company entered into a second amendment (the “Second Amendment”) to the existing credit agreement.
Under the Second Amendment, the interest rate increased by 0.5%.
The Company was entitled to elect that the borrowings comprising the incremental term loan bear interest at a rate per annum equal to (a) the ABR plus 2.00%; or (b) the Adjusted LIBOR plus 3.00%.
The Company and the guarantor granted the lenders a perfected first priority security interest in substantially all of the assets of the Company and the guarantor to secure the repayment of the term loan.
The principal is payable in installments equal to 0.25% of the initial principal amount of the term loans on March 31st, June 30th, September 30th and December 31st of each year, commencing on March 31, 2018, with any remaining amount of principal becoming due and payable on the maturity date.
All accrued and unpaid interest on the term loan shall be due on the last day of each interest period elected by the Company for such borrowings, except for interest periods of more than three months in which case all accrued and unpaid interest shall be due and payable every three months.
Subject to certain conditions stated in the credit agreement, the Company may redeem the term loan at any time at its option without a significant premium or penalty, except for a repricing transaction, as defined in the credit agreement.
Commencing on December 31, 2018, the Company was required to make principal payments equal to the excess cash flow amount, as defined in the credit agreement.
The deferred financing costs are accreted over the term of the loan using the effective interest rate method and are included in “Interest expense” in the accompanying unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations.
At June 30, 2019, deferred financing costs were $5.8 million.
If any of the events of default occur and are not waived or cured within applicable grace periods, any unpaid amounts under the credit agreement will bear an annual interest rate at 2.00% above the rate otherwise applicable under the terms and conditions of such agreement.
As of June 30, 2019, the Company was in compliance with all covenants and conditions under the credit agreement.
On July 1, 2019, in connection with the completion of the sale of its semiconductor cryogenics business to Edwards, the Company used $348.3 million of the cash proceeds from the sale to extinguish the total remaining outstanding balance of the incremental term loan and $147.0 million of the cash proceeds from the sale to extinguish a portion of the outstanding balance of the term loan.
Please refer to Note 17, “Subsequent Events”.
The principal payments are payable in eight installments equal to 12.5% of the initial principal amount of the term loans on December 14th and June 14th of each year.
The three five-year term loans were secured by GENEWIZ to fund equipment payments and the interest rates are equal to the LIBOR plus 3.1%.
The two one-year term loans were secured by GENEWIZ to fund operations.
Both of the one-year term loans were initiated in 2018 and matured in 2019.
There are no deferred financing costs related to either the five-year term loans or the one-year term loans.
At June 30, 2019, the Company had an aggregate outstanding principal balance of $1.7 million for the three five-year term loans.
Both of the two one-year short term loans matured and were repaid in full as of June 30, 2019.
During the nine months ended June 30, 2019, the Company incurred aggregate interest expense of $21.3 million in connection with the borrowings, including $1.3 million of deferred financing costs amortization.
As of June 30, 2019, the estimated fair value of the outstanding principal balance of the debt on the Company’s balance sheet approximates its carrying value.
The fair value was determined based on observable market inputs and classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy due to a lack of an active market for this term loan or a similar loan instrument.
The Company recorded an income tax expense of $7.3 million and $0.4 million, respectively, during the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019.
The Company recorded an income tax provision of $5.4 million and benefit of $49.8 million, respectively, during the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018.
The tax provision for the three months ended June 30, 2018 was the result of the Company’s earnings for the period.
The tax benefit recorded during the nine months ended June 30, 2018 was primarily driven by a discrete benefit due to the reversal of a valuation allowance against U.S. net deferred tax assets in the amount of $56.3 million.
As a result of the new guidance issued and additional work to complete the calculation of its federal toll charge, the Company reduced its provisional accrual for federal, state and foreign taxes by net $1.1 million during the three months ended December 31, 2018.
During the three months ended June 30, 2019, final U.S. tax regulations were issued that resulted in a $4.3 million increase to the previously calculated transition tax.
The Company evaluates the realizability of its deferred tax assets by tax-paying component and assesses the need for a valuation allowance on a quarterly basis.
The Company continues to maintain valuation allowances against net deferred tax assets in certain foreign tax-paying components as of June 30, 2019.
On July 1, 2019, the Company completed the sale of its semiconductor cryogenics business that resulted in a taxable gain in the U.S. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company may record adjustments to its valuation allowance as it considers new evidence including updated forecasts of U.S. income and utilization of deferred tax assets that were previously expected to expire.
The Company recognized interest expense related to its unrecognized tax benefits of $0.3 million and $0.8 million, respectively, during the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019.
The Company currently anticipates that it is reasonably possible that the unrecognized tax benefits will be reduced by approximately $0.1 million within the next twelve months.
Reserves for excess and obsolete inventory were $16.2 million and $15.0 million, respectively, at June 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018.
At June 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018, the Company had cumulative capitalized direct costs of $9.1 million and $5.6 million, respectively, associated with the development of software for its internal use which are included within "Property, plant and equipment, net" in the accompanying unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The Company establishes reserves for estimated costs of product warranties based on historical information.
Product warranty reserves are recorded at the time product revenue is recognized, and retrofit accruals are recorded at the time retrofit programs are established.
The Company’s warranty obligation is affected by product failure rates, utilization levels, material usage, service delivery costs incurred in correcting a product failure and supplier warranties on parts delivered to the Company.
The Company recognizes stock-based compensation expense on a straight-line basis, net of estimated forfeitures, over the requisite service period.
Additionally, the Company assesses the likelihood of achieving the performance goals against previously established performance targets in accordance with the Company’s long-term equity incentive plan for stock-based awards that vest upon or after the satisfaction of these goals.
Among the total restricted stock units granted, 28,493 shares were granted to the employees who belong to the semiconductor cryogenics business that was classified as a discontinued operation during the nine months ended June 30, 2018.
No shares were granted to the employees who belong to the semiconductor cryogenics business during the nine months ended June 30, 2019.
The stock awards granted to the members of the Company’s Board of Directors include restricted stock awards and deferred restricted stock units.
Certain members of the Board of Directors have elected to defer receiving their annual awards of restricted stock units and related quarterly dividends until they attain a certain age or cease to provide services as the Company’s Board members.
Restricted stock awards granted in fiscal years 2017 and 2018 are subject to a one-year vesting period, while the restricted stock awards granted in fiscal year 2019 were vested as of the grant date.
The criteria for performance-based awards have threshold, target and maximum performance goals.
Performance below the threshold financial metric results in award forfeiture.
Performance goals for each plan will be measured over a three-year period for each plan and at the end of the period.
The weighted average grant date fair value of restricted stock units granted during the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 was $36.12 and $25.71, respectively.
The weighted average grant date fair value of restricted stock units granted during the nine months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 was $30.47 and $33.31, respectively.
The fair value of restricted stock units vested during the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 was $3.4 million and $2.7 million, respectively.
The fair value of restricted stock units vested during the nine months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 was $34.5 million and $21.8 million, respectively.
During the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, the Company remitted $1.0 million and $0.9 million, respectively, collected from employees to satisfy their tax obligations as a result of share issuances.
During the nine months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, the Company remitted $15.2 million and $7.2 million, respectively, collected from employees to satisfy their tax obligations as a result of share issuances.
As of June 30, 2019, the unrecognized compensation cost related to restricted stock units that are expected to vest is $27.2 million and will be recognized over an estimated weighted average service period of approximately 1.7 years.
The Company maintains an employee stock purchase plan that allows its employees to purchase shares of common stock at a price equal to 85% of the fair market value of the Company’s stock at the beginning or the end of the semi-annual period, whichever is lower.
There were 59,549 and 66,785 shares, respectively, purchased by employees under the employee stock purchase plan during the nine months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018.
During the three and the nine months ended June 30, 2019, antidilutive restricted stock units of 1,628 and 14,063, respectively, were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share based on the treasury stock method.
There was no antidilutive restricted stock unit excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share during the three months ended June 30, 2018.
During the nine months ended June 30, 2018, antidilutive restricted stock units of 190,266 were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share based on the treasury stock method.
●Products, including sales of tool automation and automated cold sample management systems, atmospheric and vacuum robots, contamination control solutions, as well as consumables and spare parts.
●Identify the contract with a customer.
Within the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment, contracts are typically short-term with the exception of service-type warranty contracts, which generally have a stated contract term that is greater than one year.
Within the Brooks Life Sciences segment, contracts are both short and long-term.
Long-term contracts within this segment relate to the sale of products with attached service-type warranty contracts that generally have a stated contract term that is greater than one year.
Contracts within both operating segments may contain acceptance provisions where the Company is required to obtain technical acceptance from the customer upon completion of installation services and evidence of the systems functional performance within the customer’s operating environment.
●Identify the performance obligations in the contract.
Performance obligations include the sale of products and services.
These contracts include multiple promises and as a result, the Company is required to evaluate each promise and determine whether the promise qualifies as a performance obligation within the contract.
Contracts may contain the option to acquire additional products or services at defined prices.
The Company reviews the pricing of these options to determine whether the option would exist independently of the current contract.
If the pricing of contract options provides a material right to the customer that it would not receive without entering into the current contract, the Company accounts for the option as a separate performance obligation.
●Determine the transaction price.
The transaction price of the Company’s contracts with its customer is generally fixed, based on the amounts to be contractually billed to the customer.
The period between transfer of control of the performance obligations within a customer contract and timing of payment is generally within one year.
As a result, the Company’s contracts typically do not include significant financing components.
●Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract.
For customer contracts that contain more than one performance obligation, the Company allocates the total transaction consideration to each performance obligation based on the relative stand-alone selling price of each performance obligation within the contract.
The Company relies on either observable standalone sales or an expected cost plus margin approach to determine the standalone selling price of offerings, depending on the nature of the performance obligation.
●Recognize revenue when or as the Company satisfies a performance obligation.
The Company satisfies its performance obligations by transferring a product or service either at a point in time or over time, when the transfer of control of the underlying performance obligation has occurred.
Control is evidenced by the customer’s ability to direct the use of, and obtain substantially all the remaining benefits from the performance obligation.
Revenue from third-party sales for which the Company does not meet the criteria for gross revenue recognition is recognized on a net basis.
All other revenue is recognized on a gross basis.
The Company recognizes revenue as work progresses based on a percentage of actual labor hours incurred on the project to-date and total estimated labor hours expected to be incurred on the project.
The selection of the method to measure progress towards completion requires judgment.
The Company has concluded that using the percentage of labor hours incurred to estimated labor hours needed to complete the project most appropriately depicts the Company’s efforts towards satisfaction of the performance obligation.
The Company estimates a loss on a contract by comparing total estimated contract revenue to the total estimated contract costs and recognizes a loss during the period in which it becomes probable and can be reasonably estimated.
Generally, the terms of long-term contracts provide for progress billings based on completion of milestones or other defined phases of work.
Additionally, due to certain billing constraints within contracts, the customer may retain a portion of the contract price until completion of the contract.
The Company disaggregates revenue based on the transfer of control of the underlying performance obligations, the geographic location in which customer orders are placed and by reporting unit.
Accounts Receivable, Net.
Accounts receivable represent rights to consideration in exchange for products or services that have been transferred by the Company, when payment is unconditional and only the passage of time is required before payment is due.
Accounts receivable do not bear interest and are recorded at the invoiced amount.
The Company maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts representing its best estimate of probable credit losses related to its existing accounts receivable and their net realizable value.
Accounts receivable, net were $163.1 million and $125.2 million at June 30, 2019 and October 1, 2018, respectively.
Contract Assets.
Contract assets represent rights to consideration in exchange for products or services that have been transferred by the Company, when payment is conditional on something other than the passage of time.
These amounts typically relate to contracts within the Brooks Life Sciences segment where the right to payment is not present until completion of the contract or the achievement of specified milestones and the value of the products or services transferred exceed this constraint.
Contract assets are classified as current.
Deferred Commissions.
Deferred commissions represent a direct and incremental cost of obtaining a contract.
The Company classifies deferred commissions as noncurrent as the original amortization period of this asset is greater than one year.
Deferred commissions balances are included within “Other assets” on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Deferred commissions were $0.9 million and $1.5 million at June 30, 2019 and October 1, 2018, respectively.
The Company recorded $0.2 million and $0.6 million, respectively, of amortization expense related to deferred commissions for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019.
Contract Liabilities.
Contract liabilities represent the Company’s obligation to transfer products or services to a customer for which consideration has been received, or for which an amount of consideration is due from the customer.
Contract assets and liabilities are reported on a net basis at the contract level, depending on the contracts position at the end of each reporting period.
Contract liabilities were $30.6 million and $28.7 million at June 30, 2019 and October 1, 2018, respectively.
As part of the Company’s cumulative effect adjustment, incremental costs associated with obtaining a contract were capitalized and have been classified as deferred commissions within the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Sales commissions incurred during the reporting period have been expensed as incurred.
The Company has concluded that none of its costs incurred in fulfillment of customer contracts meet the capitalization criteria.
The Company will account for shipping and handling activities as fulfillment activities and recognize the associated expense when transfer of control of the product has transferred to the customer.
The Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment provides a variety of products, services and solutions that enable improved throughput and yield in controlled operating environments, as well as an extensive range of support services.
The solutions include atmospheric and vacuum robots, robotic modules, tool automation systems, contamination control of wafer and reticle carriers and reticle management systems.
The support services include repair services, diagnostic support services, and installation services in support of the products, which enable the customers to maximize process tool uptime and productivity.
This segment also provides end-user customers with spare parts and productivity enhancement upgrades to maximize tool productivity.
The Brooks Life Sciences segment provides comprehensive life cycle sample management solutions to life science and bioscience customers including complete end-to-end “cold chain of custody” solutions and a variety of sample-based lab services such as genomic sequencing and gene synthesis to advance scientific research and support drug development.
The segment’s service offerings include sample storage, genomic sequencing, gen synthesis, lab processing services, lab analysis, and other support services provided to a wide range of life science customers, including pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, biorepositories and research institutes.
In conjunction with the acquisition of GENEWIZ during the quarter ended December 31, 2018, the Company reassessed Brooks segment reporting structure and determined that GENEWIZ represents a separate operating segment based on ASC 280, Segment Reporting (“ASC 280”).
As permitted by ASC 280, the Company elected to aggregate the Sample Management operating segment and the GENEWIZ operating segment as a single reportable segment titled Brooks Life Sciences.
The aggregation was based on similarities in long-term forecasted economic characteristics, particularly adjusted operating income, similarity in services they offer, the customers they serve, the nature of their service delivery models, and their regulatory environments.
Management formally assesses the long-term financial outlook of its operating segments on an annual basis as part of its strategic planning process and more frequently on an informal basis.
The customer bases of the operating segments overlap, serving life science and bioscience customers in the pharmaceutical and bio-technology companies as well as academic and government institutions.
serving scientific and business operations functions.
In a typical customer workflow, a biological sample is collected, processed and analyzed with results interpreted and used to make scientific judgements.
Critical or valuable samples are then annotated and stored for many years in environments where they can be easily retrieved for additional study.
Both of these operating segments offer services meeting the standards of Good Manufacturing Practices set forth by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.
The Company had no customer that accounted for 10% or more of its consolidated revenue during each of the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018.
As of June 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018, the Company had no customers that accounted for 10% or more of the Company’s total receivables.
For purposes of determining the percentage of revenue generated from any of the Company’s original equipment manufacturer (the "OEM") customers, the Company does not include revenue from products sold to contract manufacturer customers who in turn sell to the OEMs.
If the Company included revenue from products sold to contract manufacturer customers supporting the Company’s OEM customers, the percentage of the Company’s total revenue derived from certain OEM customers would be higher.
As of June 30, 2019, the Company had approximately $1.3 million of letters of credit outstanding related primarily to customer advances and other performance obligations.
These arrangements guarantee the refund of advance payments received from its customers in the event that the product is not delivered, or warranty obligations are not fulfilled in accordance with the contract terms.
These obligations could be called by the beneficiaries at any time before the expiration date of the particular letter of credit if the Company fails to meet certain contractual requirements.
The Company had non-cancellable contracts and purchase orders for inventory of $97.2 million as of June 30, 2019.
reasonable ranges of potential losses.
On July 1, 2019, the Company completed the sale of its semiconductor cryogenics business to Edwards for $675.0 million, subject to adjustments for working capital and other items.
On July 1, 2019, in connection with the completion of the sale of its semiconductor cryogenics business, the Company used $348.3 million of the cash proceeds from the sale to extinguish the total remaining outstanding balance of the incremental term loan and $147.0 million of the cash proceeds from the sale to extinguish a portion of the outstanding balance of the term loan.
On July 31, 2019, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.10 per share payable on September 27, 2019 to common stockholders of record as of September 6, 2019.
Dividends are declared at the discretion of the Company’s Board of Directors and depend on the Company’s actual cash flows from operations, its financial condition and capital requirements and any other factors the Company’s Board of Directors may consider relevant.
Item 1A.
