fls.txt



item1.txt
In the opinion of management, these unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements include all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for the fair statement of Cabot Microelectronics’ financial position as of June 30, 2019, cash flows for the nine months ended June 30, 2019 and June 30, 2018, and results of operations for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019 and June 30, 2018.
Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation.
The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Cabot Microelectronics and its subsidiaries.
Except for the discussion on revenue recognition below, no material changes have been made to the Company’s significant accounting policies disclosed in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018.
Upon adoption of ASC 606, we recognized a $933 decrease to the opening balance of retained earnings, net of tax, due to the cumulative impact of adopting the new revenue standard.
We have determined that the effect of applying the new revenue standard during the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019 was immaterial to our financial statements compared to revenue guidance in effect before the adoption of the new revenue standard.
As a result, for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019, we are not disclosing the quantitative amount by which each financial statement line item is affected by the application of the new revenue standard.
For the Company’s contracts that have an original duration of one year or less as of the adoption date, the Company uses the practical expedient applicable to such contracts and does not consider the time value of money.
Further, because of the short duration of these contracts, the Company has not disclosed the transaction price for the future performance obligations as of the end of each reporting period for contracts having an expected duration of one year or less.
See Note 3 of this Report on Form 10-Q for disaggregated revenue, the reconciliation of contract balances and transaction price allocation to remaining performance obligations for contracts expected to remain effective beyond one year.
At contract inception, the Company assesses the goods and services promised in its contracts with customers and identifies a performance obligation for each material promise to the customer.
A performance obligation is a promise in a contract to transfer a distinct good or service, or a bundle of goods or services, to the customer, and is the unit of accounting under ASC 606.
A contract’s transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation and recognized as revenue when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied.
A majority of the Company’s contracts have a single performance obligation which represents, in most cases, the products, equipment or services being sold to the customer.
Some contracts include multiple performance obligations, including prospective tiered price discounts or delivery of free product that we have concluded represents a material right.
Contracts with prospective tiered price discounts require judgment in determining if that discount represents a material right.


item2.txt
In the Electronic Materials segment, we recorded lower CMP slurries revenue, which was partially offset by higher revenue in CMP pads and electronic chemicals.
In our Performance Materials segment, we continue to record strong revenue this quarter, primarily driven by higher demand for our drag-reducing agents.
Revenue for our third quarter of fiscal 2019 was $271.9 million, which represented an increase of 80.7% from the same quarter of fiscal 2018, primarily due to the Acquisition.
Results benefited from the Acquisition, but were more than offset by acquisition-related expenses, increased amortization and depreciation associated with re-valuing KMG assets to fair value, higher interest expenses resulting from the debt borrowing to finance the Acquisition, costs related to the KMG-Bernuth warehouse fire that occurred in May 2019, and increased tax expense related to newly issued final regulations related to US Tax Reform which impacted our reserves for uncertain tax positions.
This represents an increase of $36.9 million, or a 75.6% increase from the same quarter of fiscal 2018.
Adjusted EBITDA benefited from the addition of the KMG businesses, partially offset by the softer industry conditions that resulted in lower demand for Cabot Microelectronics’ heritage CMP products.
Refer to the “Use of certain GAAP and Non-GAAP Financial Information” section below for the definition of adjusted EBITDA and a reconciliation of adjusted EBITDA to net income, the most comparable GAAP financial measure.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
For instance, we could experience negative impacts on cash flows due to the inability of our customers to pay their obligations to us, or our production processes could be harmed if our suppliers cannot fulfill their obligations to us.
Although our product offerings have expanded with the acquisition of KMG, our business remains substantially dependent on products in our Electronic Materials segment, such as CMP slurries, pads and electronic chemicals, which account for the majority of our revenue.
Our success depends on our ability to keep pace with technological changes and advances in the industries in which we operate, particularly the semiconductor industry, and to adapt, improve and customize our products in response to evolving customer needs and industry trends.
Since its inception, the semiconductor industry, which is the largest industry in which we operate, has experienced technological changes and advances in the design, manufacture, performance and application of IC devices.
Our customers continually pursue lower cost of ownership and higher quality and performance of materials consumed in their manufacturing processes, including CMP slurries and pads and electronic chemicals, as a means to reduce costs, increase the yield in their manufacturing facilities, and achieve desired performance of the IC devices they produce.


