fls.txt



item1.txt
Cabot Microelectronics Corporation ("Cabot Microelectronics'', "the Company'', "us'', "we'', or "our'') supplies high-performance polishing slurries and pads used in the manufacture of advanced integrated circuit (IC) devices within the semiconductor industry, in a process called chemical mechanical planarization (CMP).
We develop, produce and sell CMP slurries for polishing many of the conducting and insulating materials used in IC devices.
We develop, manufacture and sell CMP polishing pads, which are used in conjunction with slurries in the CMP process.
In the opinion of management, these unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements include all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for the fair statement of Cabot Microelectronics' financial position as of December 31, 2017, cash flows for the three months ended December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, and results of operations for the three months ended December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016.
The Consolidated Balance Sheets as of September 30, 2017 were derived from audited financial statements.
The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Cabot Microelectronics and its subsidiaries.
The adjustments, relating primarily to accumulated earnings taxes of a foreign operation, increased the income tax expense for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 by $2,071.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company entered into a managed investment arrangement with a third party to invest in fixed income securities.
These assets are classified as available-for-sale securities and are recorded at fair value.
We have presented these securities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2017 as a current asset due to management's intent to use these funds for current business requirements.
Realized gains and losses, interest and dividends are recorded in the other income, net line item of the Consolidated Statements of Income (Loss).
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received from the sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date.
The following table presents financial instruments, other than long-term debt, that we measured at fair value on a recurring basis at December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2017.
In instances where the inputs used to measure the fair value of an asset fall into more than one level of the hierarchy, we have classified them based on the lowest-level input that is significant to the determination of the fair value.
Goodwill was $102,740 as of December 31, 2017, and $101,932 as of September 30, 2017.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we adopted ASU No.
The provisions of this standard eliminate Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test, which required an entity to determine the fair value of its assets and liabilities at the impairment testing date of its goodwill and compare it to its carrying amount to determine a possible impairment loss.


item2.txt
Forward-looking statements reflect our current expectations and are inherently uncertain.
We assume no obligation to update this forward-looking information.
Revenue for our first quarter of fiscal 2018 was $140.0 million, which represented an increase of 13.6% from the first quarter of fiscal 2017, and was a quarterly record for the Company.
Revenue from our tungsten, pads and dielectrics products increased 13.7%, 16.5% and 8.4%, respectively, from the same quarter last year.
Gross profit for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 expressed as a percentage of revenue was 52.9%, compared to 49.9% for our first quarter of fiscal 2017, including 90 and 100-basis point adverse impacts of NexPlanar amortization expense, comparatively.
Operating expenses were $36.9 million in our first quarter of fiscal 2018 compared to $33.4 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2017, both periods of which included $0.5 million in NexPlanar amortization expense.


item3.txt
Some of our foreign operations maintain their accounting records in their local currencies.


item4.txt
Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), has conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) as of December 31, 2017.


part2.txt
Furthermore, competitive dynamics within the semiconductor industry may impact our business.
For instance, we could experience negative impacts on cash flows due to the inability of our customers to pay their obligations to us, or our production process could be harmed if our suppliers cannot fulfill their obligations to us.
Since its inception, the semiconductor industry has experienced technological changes and advances in the design, manufacture, performance and application of IC devices.
Our customers continually pursue lower cost of ownership and higher quality and performance of materials consumed in their manufacturing processes, including CMP slurries and pads, as a means to reduce costs, increase the yield in their manufacturing facilities, and achieve desired performance of the IC devices they produce.


