fls.txt



item1.txt
Cabot Microelectronics Corporation ("Cabot Microelectronics'', "the Company'', "us'', "we'', or "our'') supplies high-performance polishing slurries and pads used in the manufacture of advanced integrated circuit (IC) devices within the semiconductor industry, in a process called chemical mechanical planarization (CMP).
We develop, produce and sell CMP slurries for polishing many of the conducting and insulating materials used in IC devices.
We develop, manufacture and sell CMP polishing pads, which are used in conjunction with slurries in the CMP process.
In the opinion of management, these unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements include all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for the fair statement of Cabot Microelectronics' financial position as of June 30, 2018, cash flows for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and June 30, 2017, and results of operations for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018 and June 30, 2017.
The Consolidated Balance Sheets as of September 30, 2017 were derived from audited financial statements.
The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Cabot Microelectronics and its subsidiaries.
The accounting estimates that require management's most difficult and subjective judgments include, but are not limited to, those estimates related to bad debt expense, inventory valuation, valuation and classification of auction rate securities, impairment of long-lived assets and investments, business combinations, goodwill, other intangible assets, interest rate swaps, share-based compensation, income taxes and contingencies.
The adjustments, relating primarily to accumulated earnings taxes of a foreign operation, increased the income tax expense for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 by $2,071.
The Company has a managed investment arrangement with a third party to invest in fixed income securities.
These assets were classified as available-for-sale securities and were recorded at fair value.
We have presented these securities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of June 30, 2018 as a current asset due to management's intent to use these funds for current business requirements.
Unrealized gains and losses, net of the related tax effect, are recorded within other comprehensive income.
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received from the sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date.
The Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") established a three-level hierarchy for disclosure based on the extent and level of judgment used to estimate fair value.
In instances where the inputs used to measure the fair value of an asset fall into more than one level of the hierarchy, we have classified them based on the lowest-level input that is significant to the determination of the fair value.
Our cash and cash equivalents consist of various bank accounts used to support our operations and investments in institutional money-market funds that are traded in active markets.
The long-term investment was adjusted to $1,089 in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 to reflect its fair value as of June 30, 2018.


item2.txt
This was driven in part by our memory customers' migration from 2D to 3D NAND, which requires more CMP processing steps.
Additionally, continued capacity expansions in 3D NAND, primarily in Korea and China, should continue to provide future growth opportunities for us.
Revenue for our third quarter of fiscal 2018 was $150.4 million, which represented an increase of 17.6% from the third quarter of fiscal 2017, with revenue in dielectrics slurries, polishing pads and tungsten slurries increasing 21.0%, 18.9% and 17.5%, respectively, from the same quarter last year.
Gross margin, representing gross profit as a percentage of revenue, for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was 53.6%, compared to 48.9% for our third quarter of fiscal 2017, both periods of which included 90-basis points of adverse impact of NexPlanar amortization expense.
Gross margin for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 was 53.0% of revenue, compared to 49.7% during the same period last year, which includes 90 and 100-basis points of adverse impact of NexPlanar amortization expense, comparatively.
Operating expenses were $38.8 million in our third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared to $35.6 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2017, both periods of which included $0.5 million in NexPlanar amortization expense.
Operating expenses were $113.6 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 compared to $105.1 million during the same period of fiscal 2017, which include $1.4 million of NexPlanar amortization expense for both periods.


item3.txt
Some of our foreign operations maintain their accounting records in their local currencies.


item4.txt
Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), has conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) as of June 30, 2018.


part2.txt
We do not believe there have been any material changes in our risk factors since the filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017.
For instance, we could experience negative impacts on cash flows due to the inability of our customers to pay their obligations to us, or our production process could be harmed if our suppliers cannot fulfill their obligations to us.
Since its inception, the semiconductor industry has experienced technological changes and advances in the design, manufacture, performance and application of IC devices.
Our customers continually pursue lower cost of ownership and higher quality and performance of materials consumed in their manufacturing processes, including CMP slurries and pads, as a means to reduce costs, increase the yield in their manufacturing facilities, and achieve desired performance of the IC devices they produce.


