The Company believes that these consolidated financial statements reflect all normal, recurring adjustments needed to present fairly the Company’s results for the interim periods presented.
The Company’s fiscal year ends on March 31.
The actual ending dates for the periods presented in these Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as of September 30, 2018 and 2017 were September 29, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively.
References herein to "Fiscal Year" or "Fiscal" mean the Company’s fiscal year ended March 31 for the year referenced.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the parent company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
Significant estimates in these financial statements include project progress towards completion to estimated budget, allowances for doubtful accounts receivable, sales returns, net realizable value of inventories, loss contingencies, warranty reserves, property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and goodwill.
In the second quarter of Fiscal 2019, the Company completed the sale of its Federal Business (as defined in Note 6).
The results of the Federal Business have been presented as discontinued operations and the related assets and liabilities have been reclassified as held for sale for all periods presented.
In the second quarter of Fiscal 2018, Management completed a plan to sell the Company's current headquarters' building and adjacent vacant land and move to another local facility that better aligns to the needs of the business.
On June 29, 2018, the Company and all the Lenders entered into the Second Amendment to our Credit Agreement ("Second Amended Credit Agreement" or "Second Amendment") in order to waive and modify certain covenants and other provisions contained in the Amended Credit Agreement and to fund its ongoing operations with the LIFO Facility.
The Company would have defaulted the minimum Adjusted EBITDA covenant and certain other covenants as defined by the Amended Credit Agreement had these defaults not been waived under the Second Amendment.The Company’s fiscal year ends on March 31.
References to "Fiscal Year" or "Fiscal" mean the Company’s fiscal year ended March 31 for the year referenced.
Pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, Top Parent, Parent and BBX Intermediate have agreed to cause Merger Sub to commence a tender offer to purchase any and all of the outstanding shares of common stock, par value $0.001 per share, of the Company, at a price of $1.08 per Share, net to the holder thereof, in cash, without interest thereon.
On August 27, 2018, the Company closed on its previously announced agreement to sell its Federal Government IT Services Business (the “Federal Business”) to Arlington Capital Partners, a leading private equity firm with a focus on businesses in government services and other adjacent markets, for a cash purchase price of $75.0 million.
The net cash proceeds from the sale of the Federal Business, after purchase price adjustments of $5.6 million, transaction fees and expenses of $3.2 million as well as $3.0 million of funds deposited into escrow for the finalization of certain closing items as well as certain indemnifications, were used to pay Bank fees, interest on bank debt and indebtedness.
The LIFO line is available for future borrowings, subject to continued compliance with the Second Amended Credit Agreement.As of September 30, 2018, an instantaneous 100 basis point increase in the interest rate of the variable rate debt would reduce the Company’s earnings in the subsequent fiscal quarter by $257 ($193 net of tax) assuming the Company employed no intervention strategies.Pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, Top Parent, Parent and BBX Intermediate have agreed to cause Merger Sub to commence a tender offer (as it may be extended, amended or supplemented from time to time, the “Offer”) to purchase any and all of the outstanding shares of common stock, par value $0.001 per share, of the Company (the “Shares”), at a price of $1.08 per Share, net to the holder thereof, in cash, without interest thereon (such amount, the “Offer Price”).