fls.txt
Any forward-looking statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or in documents incorporated herein by reference are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and speak only as of the date of this Form 10-Q.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited interim consolidated financial statements of Black Box have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
The Company believes that these consolidated financial statements reflect all normal, recurring adjustments needed to present fairly the Company’s results for the interim periods presented.
These financial statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company’s most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 (the "Form 10-K").
The actual ending dates for the periods presented in these Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 were December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, respectively.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the parent company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
Certain items in the consolidated financial statements of prior years have been reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation.
In the second quarter of Fiscal 2018, Management completed a plan to sell the Company's current headquarters' building and adjacent vacant land and move to another local facility that better aligns to the needs of the business.
As of the third quarter of Fiscal 2018, Management believes that only the sale of certain parcels of the adjacent vacant land is probable to occur in the next twelve months.
The significant accounting policies used in the preparation of the Company’s consolidated financial statements are disclosed in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements within the Form 10-K. No additional significant accounting policies have been adopted during Fiscal 2018.
Given the scope of work required to implement the recognition and disclosure requirements under the new standard, the Company has continued to make progress through the third quarter of Fiscal 2018.
The Company has established an implementation team that has and will continue to review 1) contract terms and existing accounting policies to determine the financial impact of the standard, 2) data availability and system reports to meet the additional disclosure requirements of the standard, and 3) the control environment and internal processes to ensure the appropriate controls are in place.
Historically, the Company's annual assessment of the recoverability of trademarks and long-lived assets is conducted as of the end of the second quarter of its fiscal year.
The following table details the estimated intangibles amortization expense for the remainder of Fiscal 2018, each of the succeeding four fiscal years and the periods thereafter.
In addition, the Company finances certain vendor-specific inventory under an unsecured revolving arrangement through third parties which provide extended payment terms beyond those offered by the vendor at no incremental cost to the Company.


item2.txt
The discussion and analysis for the three-months and nine-months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 as set forth below in this Part I, Item 2 should be read in conjunction with the response to Part I, Item 1 of this report and the consolidated financial statements of Black Box Corporation ("Black Box," the "Company," "we" or "our"), including the related notes, and "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included in the Company’s most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 (the "Form 10-K").
References to "Fiscal Year" or "Fiscal" mean the Company’s fiscal year ended March 31 for the year referenced.
New communications systems orders often generate post-implementation maintenance via a fixed fee model where revenues are earned ratably over the term of the agreement (generally 1-3 years for commercial clients and 3-5 years for government clients) or a variable fee model that is based on time and materials per occurrence, similar to MAC work.
At December 31, 2017, the Company's total backlog, which relates primarily to Services, was $344,463, of which $232,968 is expected to be completed within the next twelve months.
While the Company generates most of its revenues in North America, the Company also generates revenues from around the world, primarily Europe, such that factors that impact European markets could impact the Company.
Service Revenues were $160,480, a decrease of 8% from $174,261 in the same period last year due to a decrease in commercial revenues partially offset by an increase in government revenues.
Commercial revenues outside of North America increased primarily due to a realignment of several international entities between Products and Services as a result of changes in our management structure in the second quarter of Fiscal 2018.
Product Revenues were $34,393, a decrease of 5% from $36,109 in the same period last year primarily due to a decrease in North America Products' sales as a result of lower demand in the legacy run rate business and due to the aforementioned realignment of the international business between Products and Services.
Product Gross profit margin was 38.7%, a decrease of 13% from 44.2% in the same period last year due to higher freight costs, lower margin deals, and product returns.
Total Operating loss margin was 4.0%, compared to a Total Operating profit margin of 1.3% in the same period last year.
The Company will continue to incur costs associated with the U.S.-based ERP project that will have a negative impact on our profits and cash flows.


item3.txt
As of December 31, 2017, an instantaneous 100 basis point increase in the interest rate of the variable rate debt would reduce the Company’s earnings in the subsequent fiscal quarter by $359 ($221 net of tax) assuming the Company employed no intervention strategies.
The Company expects that its interest rates under the Amended Credit Agreement will be higher than the interest rates under the Credit Agreement thus increasing its exposure to interest on variable rate debt.


item4.txt
Management, including the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")), for the Company.


part2.txt
Item 1A.
Based upon our current projections, we may not be able to generate sufficient adjusted EBITDA during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2018 (ending March 31, 2018) in order to meet the minimum adjusted EBITDA covenant for that quarter.


