fls.txt
Any forward-looking statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or in documents incorporated herein by reference are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and speak only as of the date of this Form 10-Q.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited interim consolidated financial statements of Black Box have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
The Company believes that these consolidated financial statements reflect all normal, recurring adjustments needed to present fairly the Company’s results for the interim periods presented.
The actual ending dates for the periods presented in these Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as of June 30, 2018 and 2017 were June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017, respectively.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the parent company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
In the second quarter of Fiscal 2018, Management completed a plan to sell the Company's current headquarters' building and adjacent vacant land and move to another local facility that better aligns to the needs of the business.
As of the third quarter of Fiscal 2018, Management believes that only the sale of certain parcels of the adjacent vacant land is probable to occur in the next twelve months.
On June 29, 2018, the Company and all the Lenders entered into the Second Amendment to our Credit Agreement ("Second Amended Credit Agreement" or "Second Amendment") in order to waive and modify certain covenants and other provisions contained in the Amended Credit Agreement and to fund its ongoing operations with the LIFO Facility.
The Company would have defaulted the minimum Adjusted EBITDA covenant and certain other covenants as defined by the Amended Credit Agreement had these defaults not been waived under the Second Amendment.
These conditions are based on the Company's recurring losses from operations and negative operating cash flow, which have resulted in the need to take significant steps to generate additional liquidity.
As part of the Company’s review of its strategic alternatives, the Company agreed under the Second Amended Credit Agreement to pursue the sale of its Federal Business (as defined in Note 6).
The Company entered into an executed purchase agreement with respect to the sale of the Federal Business on August 17, 2018 which is expected to close on or before August 31, 2018.
The Company believes the expected net proceeds from the sale of the Federal Business will enable the Company to take further steps to generate additional liquidity, including entering into a transaction, selling additional assets or businesses, or obtaining alternative financing, as well as making changes to the overall cost structure of the business.
The significant accounting policies used in the preparation of the Company’s consolidated financial statements are disclosed in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements within the Form 10-K.
Under ASC 606, the Company recognizes revenues in a manner that best depicts the transfer of promised goods or services to customers for amounts that reflect the consideration to which we expect to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
Products revenues are recognized at the point in time in which control of the products transfer to customers.
The Company has historically made reasonably accurate estimates of the extent of progress towards completion under the cost-to-cost input method.
Services revenues also include on demand services, in which revenues are recognized typically when completed, due to the short-term duration of this work (which typically spans one to thirty days), and maintenance services, in which revenues are recognized over time using a time-based method.


item2.txt
Item 2.
On June 29, 2018, the Company and certain direct and indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company (collectively, the “Guarantors” and together with the Company, the “Loan Parties”) entered into a Second Amendment (the “Second Amended Credit Agreement” or the “Second Amendment”) with PNC Bank, National Association, as administrative agent (the “Agent”), and certain other lenders party thereto (together with the Agent, the “Lenders”) to amend the Credit Agreement entered into among the Loan Parties, the Agent and the Lenders on May 9, 2016 (as amended by the Amendment and Joinder Agreement, dated August 9, 2017, the “Amended Credit Agreement,” and as further amended by the “Second Amended Credit Agreement”).
The borrowings under the LIFO Facility will be used to finance the Company’s cash flow needs, subject to an approved budget and certain variance restrictions, including payments to vendors to allow the Company to operate in the ordinary course of its business.
The Company entered into the Second Amendment to waive and modify certain covenants and other provisions contained in the Amended Credit Agreement and to fund its ongoing operations with the LIFO Facility.
The Company would have defaulted the minimum Adjusted EBITDA covenant and certain other covenants as defined by the Amended Credit Agreement had these defaults not been waived under the Second Amendment.
While the entry into a definitive agreement for the sale of the Federal Business is a significant milestone for Black Box, the Company also remains focused on exploring all other strategic alternatives with the assistance of Raymond James and Jones Day to address its liquidity needs including, among others, refinancing, restructuring and the sale of some or all of the remaining businesses of the Company.
This process reflects the continued commitment of the Board of Directors of the Company to act in the best interests of the Company and to maximize value for the Company’s stockholders.
New communications systems orders often generate post-implementation maintenance via a fixed fee model where revenues are earned ratably over the term of the agreement (generally 1-3 years for commercial clients and 3-5 years for government clients) or a variable fee model that is based on time and materials per occurrence, similar to on demand services.
The Company services a variety of clients within most major industries, with the highest concentration in the government, business services, manufacturing, banking, retail, healthcare and technology industry verticals.
While the Company generates most of its revenues in North America, the Company also generates revenues from around the world, primarily Europe, such that factors that impact European markets could impact the Company.


item3.txt
As of June 30, 2018, an instantaneous 100 basis point increase in the interest rate of the variable rate debt would reduce the Company’s earnings in the subsequent fiscal quarter by $395 ($296 net of tax) assuming the Company employed no intervention strategies.


item4.txt
Management, including the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")), for the Company.


part2.txt



