Item 2.   



Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 





Critical Accounting Policies 





•  



Revenue Recognition 





•  



Long-Lived Assets, Intangible Assets and Goodwill 



•  



Acquisition Accounting 



•  



Stock-based Compensation 



•  



Income Taxes 



The following are new critical accounting policies due to the acquisition of DST in April 2018 and shall be added to the items that we previously disclosed as our critical accounting policies and estimates in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017. 



Investments  



We hold various investments, including investments in marketable securities, non-marketable securities, and partnership interests in private equity funds, joint ventures and other similar entities. 



The equity method of accounting is used for investments in entities, partnerships and similar interests (including investments in private equity funds where we are a limited partner and hold a greater than 5% partnership interest in the fund) in which we have significant influence but do not control. Under the equity method, we recognize income or losses from our pro-rata share of these unconsolidated affiliates’ net income or loss, which changes the carrying value of the investment of the unconsolidated affiliate. In certain cases, pro-rata losses are recognized only to the extent of our investment in and advances to the unconsolidated affiliate.  



We measure equity investments in unconsolidated subsidiaries, other than those accounted for under the equity method of accounting or those that result in consolidation of the investee, at fair value, with changes in the fair value recognized in earnings. We use net asset value as a practical expedient for the fair value of partnership interests in private equity funds that are not accounted for under the equity method of accounting.  



Investments in non-marketable equity securities that do not have readily determinable fair values and do not qualify for the practical expedient to measure the investment using a net asset value per share are recorded using the measurement alternative in ASU 2016-01. These investments are recorded at cost, less impairment, adjusted for observable price changes in orderly transactions for an identical or similar investment of the same issuer. At each reporting period, we assess if these investments continue to qualify for this measurement alternative. Impairment is recorded when there is evidence that the expected fair value of the investment has declined to below the recorded cost.  



We have certain investments in unconsolidated affiliates accounted for under the equity method of accounting in which our carrying value exceeds the proportionate share of net assets of the unconsolidated affiliate. The total investment in unconsolidated affiliates, including basis differences, is included in Investments on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. We record our proportionate share of the results of the unconsolidated affiliates and amortization expense related to basis differences in Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, net on the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (Loss). 



Acquisition of DST Systems, Inc. 



On April 16, 2018, we purchased all of the outstanding stock of DST for approximately $5.1 billion in cash, plus the costs of effecting the transaction. In connection with this acquisition, we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement (“Credit Agreement”) pursuant to which we borrowed an aggregate of approximately $7.4 billion (approximately $524.5 million of which was rolled over from our existing credit facility). A portion of these proceeds was used to repay our Senior Notes and the remaining amounts outstanding under our then-existing credit facility. DST is a global provider of specialized technology, strategic advisory and business operations outsourcing to the financial services and healthcare industries. The net assets and results of operations of DST are included in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements from April 16, 2018. The relevant business combination disclosures have been included in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 



Acquisition of Eze Software 



On October 1, 2018, we purchased all of the outstanding stock of Eze Software (“Eze”) for approximately $1.45 billion in cash, plus the costs of effecting the transaction. We funded the acquisition with a combination of cash and $875.0 million in incremental term loan debt. Eze provides investment management solutions designed to optimize operational and investment alpha running throughout the entire investment process. 



Pending Acquisition of Intralinks Holdings 



On September 6, 2018, we announced that we had entered into a definitive agreement wherein we will acquire Intralinks  







Results of Operations 





Revenues 











Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 and 2017. Our revenues increased $574.2 million, or 137.3%, primarily due to our acquisitions, which included CommonWealth Fund Services Ltd. (“CommonWealth”) in the fourth quarter of 2017 and DST and CACEIS North America (“CACEIS”) in the second quarter of 2018 which, combined, contributed $563.2 million in revenues. Additionally, revenues increased due to increased demand for our software-enabled services. The increase in revenues was partially offset by the unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation, which reduced revenue by $2.1 million. Software-enabled services revenues increased $545.2 million, or 193.3%, primarily due to the acquisitions, which added revenues of $534.7 million, as well as from a continued increase in demand for our fund administration services and services for advisory and wealth managers. The unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation was $0.6 million. License, maintenance and related revenues increased $29.0  





million, or 21.3%, primarily due to the acquisitions, which added revenues of $28.4 million. The unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation was $1.5 million. 



Nine Months Ended September 30, 2018 and 2017. Our revenues increased $1,073.2 million, or 86.8%, primarily due to our acquisitions, which contributed $1,039.6 million in revenues. Additionally, revenues increased due to increased demand for our software-enabled services and the favorable impact from foreign currency translation, which added $3.1 million. Software-enabled services revenues increased $1,032.6 million, or 124.2%, primarily due to the acquisitions, which added revenues of $991.1 million, as well as from a continued increase in demand for our fund administration services and services for advisory and wealth managers. The favorable impact from foreign currency translation was $2.3 million. License, maintenance and related revenues increased $40.6 million, or 10.0%, primarily due to the acquisitions, which added revenues of $48.4 million and the favorable impact from foreign currency translation of $0.8 million, partially offset by a decrease in professional services revenues.  



Cost of Revenues 



Cost of software-enabled services revenues consists primarily of costs related to personnel utilized in servicing our software-enabled services and amortization of intangible assets. Cost of license, maintenance and other related revenues consists primarily of the cost related to personnel utilized in servicing our maintenance contracts and to provide implementation, conversion and training services to our software licensees, as well as system integration and custom programming consulting services and amortization of intangible assets.  











Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 and 2017. Our total cost of revenues increased $360.3 million, or 163.9%, primarily due to our acquisitions, which added $349.9 million in costs. Included in these costs are severance charges of $3.1 million in 2018 related to the elimination of redundant positions with the acquired businesses. The favorable impact from foreign currency translation reduced costs by $1.8 million. Costs of software-enabled services revenues increased $347.2 million, or 223.3%, primarily due to our acquisitions, which added $335.9 million in costs, as well as increased costs to support the growth in software-enabled services revenues. The favorable impact from foreign currency translation reduced costs by $1.5 million. Costs of license, maintenance and related revenues increased $13.1 million, or 20.4%, primarily due to our acquisitions, which added $14.0 million, partially offset by decreases in personnel-related costs. The favorable impact from foreign currency translation reduced costs by $0.3 million.  



Nine Months Ended September 30, 2018 and 2017. Our total cost of revenues increased $752.1 million, or 113.8%, primarily due to our acquisitions, which contributed $728.0 million to the increase. Included in these costs are severance charges of $37.2 million in 2018 related to the elimination of redundant positions within the acquired businesses. The unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation added $3.3 million in costs. Costs of software-enabled services revenues increased $724.7 million, or 154.7%, primarily due to our acquisitions, which added $696.2 million in costs, as well as increased costs to support the growth in software–enabled services revenues. The unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation added $2.4 million in costs. Costs of license, maintenance and related revenues increased $27.4 million, or 14.2%, primarily due to our acquisitions, which added $31.8 million in  





costs, partially offset by decreases in personnel-related costs and independent contractors.  The unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation added $0.9 million in costs.  



Operating Expenses 



Selling and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel costs associated with the selling and marketing of our products, including salaries, commissions and travel and entertainment. Such expenses also include amortization of intangible assets, the cost of branch sales offices, trade shows and marketing and promotional materials. Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel costs attributable to the enhancement of existing products and the development of new software products. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel costs related to management, accounting and finance, information management, human resources and administration and associated overhead costs, as well as fees for professional services. Transaction expenses are those costs that are directly related to our acquisition of DST. Transaction expenses consist primarily of certain costs associated with the amendment and restatement of our Credit Agreement, investment banker advisory fees, legal fees and other fees related to our acquisition of DST. 











Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2018 and 2017. The increase in total operating expenses in 2018 was primarily due to our acquisitions, which added expenses of $121.5 million and $356.9 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively. Included in these costs are severance charges of $1.4 million and $21.6 million in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, related to the elimination of redundant positions within the acquired businesses. The impact from foreign currency translation reduced costs by $0.8 million and increased costs by $1.7 million for the three and nine month periods, respectively. Total operating expenses in both periods also increased due to higher personnel-related costs, higher legal-related expenses, and higher stock-based compensation. 



Transaction Expenses 



Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2018 and 2017. Transaction expenses of $1.9 million and $96.4 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, consist of certain costs associated with our Credit Agreement, investment banker advisory fees, legal and other professional fees associated with the acquisition of DST as discussed in the Notes to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and in “Liquidity and Capital Resources”. 



Comparison of the Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 for Interest, Taxes and Other 



Interest expense, net. We had net interest expense of $78.1 million and $173.7 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, compared to $26.3 million and $81.6 million for the three and nine months ended September 30,  





2017, respectively. The increase in interest expense, net for the three and nine month periods reflects incremental borrowings in connection with our acquisition of DST and, to a lesser extent, higher average interest rates. These increases were partially offset by the impact of repayments of the Prior Credit Agreement.  These facilities are discussed further in “Liquidity and Capital Resources”. 



Other income (expense), net. We had other income, net of $13.7 million and $14.8 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively. We had other expense, net of $2.5 million and $3.8 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, respectively. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, other income, net included investments gains and dividend income of $12.1 million and $13.4 million, respectively. The remaining portion of other income (expense), net consists primarily of foreign currency transaction gains and losses. 



Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, net. We had equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, net of $1.7 million and $2.8 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively. This is primarily related to our proportionate share of IFDS L.P.’s net income, offset by amortization of basis differences. 



Loss on extinguishment of debt. We recorded a $44.4 million loss on extinguishment of debt in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 in connection with the amendment and restatement of our credit agreement. The loss on extinguishment of debt includes the write-off of a portion of the unamortized capitalized financing fees and unamortized original issue discount related to the Prior Credit Agreement and Senior Notes for amounts accounted for as a debt extinguishment and a make-whole premium paid in connection with the redemption of the Senior Notes. We recorded a $2.3 million loss on extinguishment of debt in the nine months ended September 30, 2017 in connection with the amendment of our Prior Credit Agreement. These facilities are discussed further in “Liquidity and Capital Resources”. 







Our effective tax rates for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 differ from the statutory rate of 21.0% primarily due to the acquisition of DST and certain discrete items recorded during the year. Our effective tax rates for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 differed from the statutory rate of 35.0% primarily due to the effect of our foreign operations. The change in the effective tax rate for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and the nine months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the prior year was primarily due to the relative proportionate impact of permanent book to tax differences and discrete tax benefits on reduced pre-tax book income in 2018. The income tax benefit recorded year-to-date includes a deferred tax benefit for the remeasurement of existing state deferred tax liabilities as a result of the DST acquisition, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of enacted state law changes, windfall tax benefits from stock awards, and the release of uncertain tax position reserves based on a lapse in the statute of limitations. Our effective tax rate benefited in prior years from the effect of operations outside the United States, which prior to 2018, were taxed at rates significantly lower than the U.S. statutory rate. While we have income from multiple foreign sources, the majority of our non-U.S. operations are in Canada, India and the United Kingdom, where we anticipate the statutory rates to be 26.5%, 30.5% and 19.0%, respectively, in 2018. The consolidated expected effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2018 is forecasted to be between 15% and 17%. A future proportionate change in the composition of income before income taxes from foreign and domestic tax jurisdictions could impact our periodic effective tax rate. 



In accordance with SAB 118 issued by the SEC Staff in December 2017, we recorded provisional estimates regarding certain provisions of the Tax Act in the period ending December 31, 2017, including the mandatory deemed repatriation provisions, revaluation of deferred taxes and related state tax impacts. We did not make any significant adjustments to these estimates for the quarter ended September 30, 2018. We will continue to analyze all necessary information and guidance in order to complete our accounting related to the Tax Act within the measurement period, which is not to exceed one year beyond the date of enactment. 



Liquidity and Capital Resources 



Our principal cash requirements are to finance the costs of our operations pending the billing and collection of client receivables, to fund payments with respect to our indebtedness, to invest in research and development, to acquire complementary businesses or assets and to pay dividends on our common stock. We expect our cash on hand, cash flows from operations, and cash available under our Credit Agreement to provide sufficient liquidity to fund our current obligations, projected working capital requirements and capital spending for at least the next twelve months. 





In April 2018, we purchased all of the outstanding stock of DST for approximately $5.1 billion in cash, plus the costs of effecting the transaction. We funded the acquisition and refinancing of existing debt with $7.4 billion of debt financing (of which approximately $524.5 million was rolled over from our Prior Credit Agreement) and a portion of the net proceeds from the issuance and sale of approximately $1.4 billion of our common stock. We funded our acquisition of Eze in October 2018 with a combination of cash on-hand and $875.0 million in incremental term loan debt. We intend to fund our planned acquisition of Intralinks with $1.0 billion in incremental term loan debt and $0.5 billion in our common stock. 



In 2018, we paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.07 per share of common stock on March 15, 2018 and June 15, 2018 and $0.08 per share of common stock on September 18, 2018 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 1, 2018, June 1, 2018 and September 4, 2018, respectively, totaling $50.7 million in the aggregate. In 2017, the Company paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.0625 per share of common stock on March 15, 2017 and June 15, 2017 and $0.07 per share of common stock on September 15, 2017 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 1, 2017, June 1, 2017 and September 15, 2017, respectively, totaling $39.9 million in the aggregate. 



Our cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash and cash equivalents, including amounts held on behalf of clients, were $1,273.0 million at September 30, 2018, an increase of $1,208.3 million from $64.7 million at December 31, 2017. The increase in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash and cash equivalents is primarily due to proceeds received from our borrowings and common stock offering, the impact of restricted cash and cash equivalents held by DST as well as cash provided by operations and proceeds from stock option exercises. These increases were partially offset by cash used for acquisitions, repayments of debt, payment of dividends and capital expenditures. 



Net cash provided by operating activities was $322.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018. Cash provided by operating activities primarily resulted from net income of $44.5 million adjusted for non-cash items of $355.7 million, partially offset by changes in our working capital accounts (excluding the effect of acquisitions) totaling $77.8 million. The changes in our working capital accounts were driven by decreases in accounts payable and accrued expenses and changes in income taxes prepaid and payable, partially offset by decreases in accounts receivable and prepaid expenses and other assets. Cash provided by operating activities was negatively affected by $210.0 million of costs related to the DST acquisition, including transaction, severance and other such items. The decrease in accounts payable was primarily due to the timing of payments. The decrease in accrued expenses was primarily due to the payment of annual employee bonuses in the first quarter of 2018. The decrease in accounts receivable was primarily due to an overall decrease in days’ sales outstanding, excluding the effect of acquisitions, as well as an improvement in the average days’ sales outstanding associated with businesses acquired in 2018 since the date of those acquisitions. The decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets was primarily due to the timing of payments, particularly as a result of the mid-month acquisition of DST.  



Investing activities used net cash of $4,669.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, primarily related to cash paid for business acquisitions (net of cash acquired) of $4,633.6 million, $28.5 million in capital expenditures, $29.3 million in capitalized software development costs and $15.4 million in investments in securities, partially offset by proceeds from sales and maturities of investments of $28.1 million and proceeds from the sale of property and equipment of $9.6 million. 



Financing activities provided net cash of $5,552.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, representing $6,873.7 million received from debt borrowings, net of original issue discount, net proceeds of $1,399.0 million from common stock issuance, net increase in client funds obligations of $193.2 million and proceeds of $74.8 million from stock option exercises. These proceeds were partially offset by repayments of debt totaling $2,856.1 million, the payment of $68.7 million in fees related to debt extinguishment and refinancing activities, $50.7 million in quarterly dividends paid and $12.7 million in withholding taxes paid related to equity award net share settlements.  



Our cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash at September 30, 2017 were $104.0 million, a decrease of $15.7 million from $119.7 million at December 31, 2016. The decrease in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash is primarily due to net repayments of debt, payment of dividends and capital expenditures. These decreases were partially offset by cash provided by operations and proceeds from stock option exercises. 



Net cash provided by operating activities was $308.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017. Cash provided by operating activities primarily resulted from net income of $163.5 million adjusted for non-cash items of $197.6 million, partially offset by changes in our working capital accounts (excluding the effect of acquisitions) totaling $52.6 million. The changes in our working capital accounts were driven by a decrease in accrued expenses and deferred revenue, partially offset by an increase in accounts payable. The decrease in accrued expenses was primarily due to the payment of annual employee bonuses in the first quarter of 2017. The decrease in deferred revenue was primarily due to an increase in the number of new license contracts and contract renewals that qualified for up-front revenue recognition as well as the decline in deferred revenue associated with the completion of professional services installations of our software. The increase in accounts payable was primarily due to the timing of payments. 





Investing activities used net cash of $36.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017, primarily related to $29.8 million in capital expenditures and $8.1 million in capitalized software development costs partially offset by cash received of $1.8 million related to purchase price adjustments for prior acquisitions. 



Financing activities used net cash of $291.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017, representing net repayments of debt totaling $292.8 million, $39.9 million in quarterly dividends paid and $4.1 million in withholding taxes paid related to equity award net share settlements, partially offset by proceeds of $46.3 million from stock option exercises. 



We have made a permanent reinvestment determination in certain non-U.S. operations that have historically generated positive operating cash flows. At September 30, 2018, we held approximately $90.4 million in cash and cash equivalents at non-U.S. subsidiaries where we had made such a determination and in turn, no provision for foreign withholding, foreign local, or U.S. state income taxes had been made. At September 30, 2018, we held approximately $54.1 million in cash that was available to our foreign borrowers under our senior secured credit facility and will be used to facilitate debt servicing of those entities. 



Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 



We have no off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that is material to investors. 



Senior Secured Credit Facilities 







The majority of the initial proceeds from the Initial Term Loans was used to satisfy the consideration required to fund the acquisition of DST, repay certain amounts outstanding under our then-existing credit agreement (“Prior Credit Agreement”), repay all of the outstanding principal amount of our 5.875% Senior Notes due 2023 (“Senior Notes”) and repay acquired debt associated with DST.  



The refinancing of the Prior Credit Agreement was evaluated in accordance with FASB Accounting Standards Codification 470-50, Debt-Modifications and Extinguishments, for modification and extinguishment accounting. We accounted for the refinancing as a debt modification with respect to amounts that remained obligations of the same lender in the syndicate with minor changes in cash flows and as a debt extinguishment with respect to amounts that were obligations of lenders that exited the syndicate or remained in the syndicate but experienced a change in cash flows of greater than 10%. See Note 4 to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of debt. 





The Term Loans and Revolving Credit Facility bear interest, at the election of the borrowers, at the base rate (as defined in the Credit Agreement) or LIBOR, plus the applicable interest rate margin for the credit facility. Amounts drawn on the Revolving Credit Facility initially bear interest at either LIBOR plus 2.25% or at the base rate plus 1.25%, and is subject to a step-down at any time our  





consolidated net secured leverage ratio is less than 4.75 times, to 2.0% in the case of the LIBOR margin and 1.0% in the case of the base rate margin. The Term B-1 Loan and Term B-2 Loan bear interest at either LIBOR plus 2.25% or at the base rate plus 1.25%. The Term B-3 Loan, Term B-4 Loan and Term B-5 Loan initially bear interest at either LIBOR plus 2.50% or at the base rate plus 1.50%, and are subject to a step-down at any time our consolidated net secured leverage ratio is less than 4.75 times, to 2.25% in the case of the LIBOR margin and 1.25% in the case of the base rate margin. 



As of September 30, 2018, there was $515.8 million in principal amount outstanding under the Term Loan B-1, $4,475.9 million in principal amount outstanding under the Term Loan B-3 and $1,737.4 million in principal amount outstanding under the Term Loan B-4. There was no principal amount outstanding under the Term Loan B-2.  







The obligations of the U.S. loan parties under the Credit Agreement are secured by substantially all of the assets of such persons (subject to customary exceptions and limitations), including a pledge of all of the capital stock of substantially all of the U.S. wholly-owned restricted subsidiaries of such persons (with customary exceptions and limitations) and 65% of the capital stock of certain foreign restricted subsidiaries of such persons (with customary exceptions and limitations). All obligations of the non-U.S. loan parties under the Credit Agreement are secured by substantially all of our and the other guarantors’ assets (subject to customary exceptions and limitations), including a pledge of all of the capital stock of substantially all of our wholly-owned restricted subsidiaries (with customary exceptions and limitations). 



The Credit Agreement includes negative covenants that, among other things and subject to certain thresholds and exceptions, limit our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to incur debt or liens, make investments (including in the form of loans and acquisitions), merge, liquidate or dissolve, sell property and assets, including capital stock of our subsidiaries, pay dividends on our capital stock or redeem, repurchase or retire our capital stock, alter the business we conduct, amend, prepay, redeem or purchase subordinated debt, or engage in transactions with our affiliates. The Credit Agreement also contains customary representations and warranties, affirmative covenants and events of default, subject to customary thresholds and exceptions. In addition, the Credit Agreement contains a financial covenant for the benefit of the Revolving Credit Facility requiring us to maintain a minimum consolidated net secured leverage ratio. In addition, under the Credit Agreement, certain defaults under agreements governing other material indebtedness could result in an event of default under the Credit Agreement, in which case the lenders could elect to accelerate payments under the Credit Agreement and terminate any commitments they have to provide future borrowings. 



Senior Notes 



On April 16, 2018, we redeemed all of the outstanding principal amount of its Senior Notes utilizing a portion of the proceeds from the Initial Term Loans described above. The redemption of the Senior Notes required the payment of a “make whole” premium calculated pursuant to the indenture governing the Senior Notes. See Loss on extinguishment of debt within Note 4 to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. In addition, on May 1, 2018, we redeemed senior notes of DST that were acquired as a part of the acquisition of DST utilizing a portion of the proceeds of the Initial Term Loans described above. The redemption of DST’s senior notes totaled $600.4 million, which included a “make whole” premium. 



Other Indebtedness 



In connection with the acquisition of DST, we assumed a mortgage with a principal amount of £21.0 million, which matures in October 2020 (“U.K. Mortgage”) and a $4.1 million mortgage on property in the U.S. The outstanding amount under the U.K. Mortgage was $26.1 million at September 30, 2018 with a fixed interest rate of 3.1%. Principal payments of £1.0 million are payable semi-annually in April and October of each year and accrued interest payable quarterly, with the outstanding balance due at maturity.  





Covenant Compliance 



Under the Revolving Credit Facility portion of the Credit Agreement, we are required to satisfy and maintain a specified financial ratio at the end of each fiscal quarter if the sum of (i) outstanding amount of all loans under the Revolving Credit Facility and (ii) all non-cash collateralized letters of credit issued under the Revolving Credit Facility in excess of $20 million is equal to or greater than 30% of the total commitments under the Revolving Credit Facility. Our financial ratio became effective with the period ended September 30, 2018. Our ability to meet this financial ratio can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet this ratio. Any breach of this covenant could result in an event of default under the Credit Agreement. Upon the occurrence of any event of default under the Credit Agreement, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the Credit Agreement to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. Any default and subsequent acceleration of payments under the Credit Agreement would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Additionally, under the Credit Agreement, our ability to engage in activities such as incurring additional indebtedness, making investments and paying dividends is also tied to baskets and ratios based on Consolidated EBITDA. 



Consolidated EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure used in key financial covenants contained in the Credit Agreement, which is the material facility supporting our capital structure and providing liquidity to our business. Consolidated EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”), further adjusted to exclude unusual items and other adjustments permitted in calculating covenant compliance under the Credit Agreement. We believe that the inclusion of supplementary adjustments to EBITDA applied in presenting Consolidated EBITDA is appropriate to provide additional information to investors to demonstrate compliance with the specified financial ratio and other financial condition tests contained in the Credit Agreement. 



Management uses Consolidated EBITDA to gauge the costs of our capital structure on a day-to-day basis when full financial statements are unavailable. Management further believes that providing this information allows our investors greater transparency and a better understanding of our ability to meet our debt service obligations and make capital expenditures. 



Consolidated EBITDA does not represent net income or cash flow from operations as those terms are defined by generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, and does not necessarily indicate whether cash flows will be sufficient to fund cash needs. Further, the Credit Agreement requires that Consolidated EBITDA be calculated for the most recent four fiscal quarters. As a result, the measure can be disproportionately affected by a particularly strong or weak quarter. Further, it may not be comparable to the measure for any subsequent four-quarter period or any complete fiscal year. 





•  



Consolidated EBITDA does not reflect the significant interest expense we incur as a result of our debt leverage;  



•  



Consolidated EBITDA does not reflect the provision (benefit) of income tax expense in our various jurisdictions; 



•  



Consolidated EBITDA does not reflect any attribution of costs to our operations related to our investments and capital expenditures through depreciation and amortization charges; 



•  



Consolidated EBITDA does not reflect the cost of compensation we provide to our employees in the form of stock-based awards;  



•  



Consolidated EBITDA does not reflect the equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates; and  



•  



Consolidated EBITDA excludes expenses and income that are permitted to be excluded per the terms of our Credit Agreement, but which others may believe are normal expenses for the operation of a business. 



The following is a reconciliation of net income to Consolidated EBITDA as defined in our Credit Agreement. 











Acquired EBITDA reflects the EBITDA impact of significant businesses that were acquired during the period as if the acquisition occurred at the beginning of the period, as well as cost savings enacted in connection with acquisitions. 





Purchase accounting adjustments include (a) an adjustment to increase revenues by the amount that would have been recognized if deferred revenue were not adjusted to fair value at the date of acquisitions, (b) an adjustment to increase personnel and commissions expense by the amount that would have been recognized if prepaid commissions and deferred personnel costs were not adjusted to fair value at the date of the acquisitions, and (c) an adjustment to increase rent expense by the amount that would have been recognized if lease obligations were not adjusted to fair value at the date of acquisitions. 





Other includes expenses and income that are permitted to be excluded per the terms of our Credit Agreement from Consolidated EBITDA, a financial measure used in calculating our covenant compliance. These include expenses and income related to currency transactions, facilities and workforce restructuring, legal settlements and business combinations. 











Calculated as the ratio of consolidated net secured funded indebtedness, net of cash and cash equivalents, to Consolidated EBITDA, as defined by the Credit Agreement, for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters ended on the measurement date. Consolidated net secured funded indebtedness is comprised of indebtedness for borrowed money, letters of credit, deferred purchase price obligations and capital lease obligations, all of which is secured by liens on our property. 



Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements 



In August 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments. ASU 2016-15 addresses how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows under ASC Topic 230, Statement of Cash Flow, and other Topics. ASU 2016-15 is effective for our first quarter of fiscal 2018 and the guidance requires application using a retrospective method. The impact of our adoption of ASU 2016-15 to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements was to reflect the presentation of debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs as cash outflows from financing activities within our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. We adopted ASU 2016-15 as of January 1, 2018, which resulted in presenting fees paid for debt extinguishment as a financing activity within the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for all periods shown. 



In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01, Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities. ASU 2016-01 requires equity investments, except those accounted for under the equity method of accounting, that have readily determinable fair values to be measured at fair value with any changes in fair value recognized in net income. Equity securities that do not have readily determinable fair values may be measured at estimated fair value or cost less impairment, if any, adjusted for  





subsequent observable price changes, with changes in the carrying value recognized in net income.  A qualitative assessment for impairment is required for equity investments without readily determinable fair values.  The updated guidance also eliminates the requirement to disclose the method and significant assumptions used to estimate the fair value of financial instruments measured at amortized cost on the balance sheet.  We adopted ASU 2016-01 as of January 1, 2018, which did not have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  



In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606). ASC 606 supersedes the revenue recognition requirements in ASC 605 and 985 and requires entities to recognize revenue when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to customers at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. We adopted ASC 606 as of January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective transition method. See Note 3 for further details. 



Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Effective 



In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments. ASU 2016-13 requires companies to measure credit losses utilizing a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires a consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates. ASU 2016-13 is effective for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and earlier adoption is permitted beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. Application of the ASU is through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the effective date. We are currently evaluating the impact of the pending adoption of ASU 2016-13 on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. This ASU is not expected to have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 



In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842). ASU 2016-02 requires lessees to recognize the following for all leases (with the exception of short-term leases) at the commencement date; (i) a lease liability, which is a lessee’s obligation to make lease payments arising from a lease, measured on a discounted basis; and (ii) a right-of-use asset, which is an asset that represents the lessee’s right to use, or control the use of, a specified asset for the lease term. Lessor accounting is largely unchanged under the amendments of ASU 2016-02. Additional disclosures will be required to allow the user to assess the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leasing activities. A modified retrospective transition approach is required for leases existing at the time of adoption. ASU 2016-02 is effective for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and earlier adoption is permitted. The impact of the adoption of ASU 2016-02 to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements will be to recognize the majority of our operating lease commitments as operating lease liabilities and right-of-use assets upon adoption, which will result in a material increase in the assets and liabilities recorded on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. We are continuing our assessment, which may identify additional impacts ASU 2016-02 will have on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related disclosures and internal controls over financial reporting. 





