Item 2.   



Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 





Critical Accounting Policies 





•  



Investments 



•  



Long-Lived Assets, Intangible Assets and Goodwill 



•  



Software Capitalization 



•  



Acquisition Accounting 



•  



Revenue Recognition 



•  



Depreciation of Fixed Assets 



•  



Stock-based Compensation 



•  



Income Taxes 



Results of Operations 





Revenues 













Three Months Ended June 30, 2019 and 2018. Our revenues increased $252.2 million, or 28.2%, primarily due to our acquisitions, which partially included DST Systems, Inc. (“DST”) and CACEIS North America (“CACEIS”) in the second quarter of 2018 and Eze Software Group, LLC (“Eze”) and Intralinks Holdings, Inc. (“Intralinks”) in the fourth quarter of 2018, which, combined, contributed $241.6 million in revenues. Excluding the impact of acquisitions, revenues increased due to increased term license revenues and increased demand for our fund administration services, with such increases partially offset by a decrease in software-enabled services revenues within the DST business. The increase in revenues was partially offset by the unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation, which reduced revenues by $9.2 million. Software-enabled services revenues increased $221.1 million, or 29.8%, primarily due to the acquisitions, which added revenues of $236.2 million, as well as from a continued increase in demand for our fund administration services and services for advisory and wealth managers. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in software-enabled services revenues within the DST business. The unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation was $7.3 million. License, maintenance and related revenues increased $31.1 million, or 20.2%, primarily due to increased term license revenues as well as the acquisitions, which added revenues of $5.4 million. The unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation was $1.8 million. 



Six Months Ended June 30, 2019 and 2018. Our revenues increased $967.5 million, or 73.4%, primarily due to our acquisitions, which partially included DST and CACEIS in the second quarter of 2018 and Eze and Intralinks in the fourth quarter of 2018, which, combined, contributed $945.0 million in revenues. Excluding the impact of acquisitions, revenues increased primarily due to an increase in term license revenues and increased demand for our fund administration services, with such increases partially offset by a decrease in software-enabled services revenues within the DST business. The increase in revenues was partially offset by the unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation, which reduced revenues by $11.8 million. Software-enabled services revenues increased $898.3 million, or 86.7%, primarily due to the acquisitions, which added revenues of $904.8 million, as well as from a continued increase in demand for our fund administration services and services for advisory and wealth managers. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in software-enabled services revenues within the DST business. The unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation was $8.6 million. License, maintenance and related revenues increased $69.2 million, or 24.6%, primarily due to increased term license revenues as well as the acquisitions, which added revenues of $40.2 million. The unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation was $3.3 million. 



Cost of Revenues 



Cost of software-enabled services revenues consists primarily of costs related to personnel utilized in providing our software-enabled services and amortization of intangible assets. Cost of license, maintenance and other related revenues consists primarily of the costs related to personnel utilized in servicing our maintenance contracts and to provide implementation, conversion and training services to our software licensees, as well as system integration and custom programming consulting services and amortization of intangible assets.  













Three Months Ended June 30, 2019 and 2018. Our total cost of revenues increased $45.6 million, or 7.6%, primarily due to our acquisitions, which added $125.5 million in costs offset by a decrease in cost of revenues within the DST business, a result of the elimination of redundant positions and other cost saving measures enacted during 2018 and 2019. The favorable impact from foreign currency translation reduced costs by $6.4 million. Cost of software-enabled services revenues increased $50.1 million, or 9.6%, primarily due to our acquisitions, which added $122.8 million in costs, offset by a decrease in costs within the DST business. The favorable impact from foreign currency translation reduced costs by $5.5 million. Cost of license, maintenance and related revenues decreased $4.5 million, or 5.6%, primarily due to a decrease in amortization of intangible assets offset by our acquisitions, which added $2.7 million in costs. The favorable impact from foreign currency translation reduced costs by $0.9 million. 



Six Months Ended June 30, 2019 and 2018. Our total cost of revenues increased $478.0 million, or 57.4%, primarily due to our acquisitions, which added $551.0 million in costs offset by a decrease in cost of revenues within the DST business, a result of the elimination of redundant positions and other cost saving measures enacted during 2018 and 2019. The favorable impact from foreign currency translation reduced costs by $9.9 million. Cost of software-enabled services revenues increased $469.6 million, or 68.0%, primarily due to our acquisitions, which added $533.6 million in costs, offset by a decrease in costs within the DST business. The favorable impact from foreign currency translation reduced costs by $8.3 million. Cost of license, maintenance and related revenues increased $8.4 million, or 5.9%, primarily due to our acquisitions, which added $17.4 million in costs, partially offset by a decrease in amortization of intangible assets. The favorable impact from foreign currency translation reduced costs by $1.6 million. 



Operating Expenses 



Selling and marketing expenses consist primarily of the personnel costs associated with the selling and marketing of our products, including salaries, commissions and travel and entertainment. Such expenses also include amortization of intangible assets, the cost of branch sales offices, trade shows and marketing and promotional materials. Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel costs attributable to the enhancement of existing products and the development of new software products. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel costs related to management, accounting and finance, information management, human resources and administration and associated overhead costs, as well as fees for professional services. Transaction expenses consist of certain costs associated with our acquisition of DST, including costs to enter into our Credit Agreement, investment banker advisory fees, legal and other professional fees. 













Three Months Ended June 30, 2019 and 2018. Operating expenses decreased $67.6 million, or 19.7%, primarily due to lower transaction expenses and a decrease in costs within the DST business offset by our acquisitions, which added $85.8 million in expenses. The impact from foreign currency translation reduced costs by $2.8 million. Excluding the impact of acquisitions, total operating expenses declined due to no transaction expenses in 2019 as compared to $91.1 million in transaction expenses in 2018, as well as a decrease in personnel-related costs, stock-based compensation expense, outside services and consulting. These declines were offset by an increase in legal expenses. 



Six Months Ended June 30, 2019 and 2018. Operating expenses increased $100.1 million, or 22.3%, primarily due to our acquisitions, which added $256.4 million in expenses offset by lower transaction expenses and a decrease in costs within the DST business. The impact from foreign currency translation reduced costs by $4.6 million. Excluding the impact of acquisitions, total operating expenses declined primarily due to no transaction expenses in 2019 as compared to $94.5 million in transaction expenses in 2018, as well as lower personnel-related costs, stock-based compensation expense, outside services and consulting. These declines were offset by an increase in legal expenses. 



Comparison of the Three and Six Months Ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 for Interest, Taxes and Other 



Interest expense, net. We had net interest expense of $104.3 million and $205.9 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, compared to $70.2 million and $95.6 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively. The increase in interest expense, net for 2019 as compared to 2018 relates primarily to increased borrowings in connection with our acquisitions of DST, Eze and Intralinks and, to a lesser extent, higher average interest rates. These facilities are discussed further in “Liquidity and Capital Resources”. 



Other income, net. We had other income, net of $33.9 million and $37.4 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively. During the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, other income, net included investment gains of $29.5 million and $36.9 million, respectively. The remaining portion of other income, net consisted primarily of foreign currency transaction gains and losses. We had other income, net of $0.6 million and $1.1 million for the three and six months ended June, 30, 2018, respectively. During the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, other income, net consisted primarily of net investment gains and dividend income on our investments offset by foreign currency transaction losses. 



Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, net. We had equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, net of $2.2 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, compared to $1.1 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively. This is primarily related to our joint venture International Financial Data Services L.P. (“IFDS L.P.”) and represents our proportionate share of IFDS L.P.’s net income, offset by amortization of basis differences. 



Loss on extinguishment of debt. We recorded a $7.1 million loss on extinguishment of debt in the six months ended June 30, 2019 in connection with the repayment of a portion of our Term Loans with the proceeds from the issuance of our Senior Notes. The loss on extinguishment of debt includes costs incurred by us which did not meet the criteria for capitalization. The Senior Notes are discussed further in “Liquidity and Capital Resources”. We recorded a $44.4 million loss on extinguishment of debt in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 in connection with the amendment and restatement of our credit agreement. The loss on extinguishment of debt includes the write-off of a portion of the unamortized capitalized financing fees and unamortized original issue discount related to the Prior Credit Agreement and Prior Senior Notes for amounts accounted for as a debt extinguishment and a make-whole premium paid in connection with the redemption of the Prior Senior Notes. 









Our effective tax rates for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and six months ended June 30, 2019 differ from the statutory rate of 21.0% primarily due to the composition of income before income taxes from foreign and domestic tax jurisdictions, foreign income that is being taxed in the U.S. offset by foreign tax credits that are being limited, and the recognition of windfall tax benefits from stock awards. The change in the effective tax rate for the three months ended June 30, 2019 compared to the prior year was primarily due to our acquisition of DST during the three months ended June 30, 2018 and the relative impact of permanent book to tax differences on reduced pre-tax book income in 2018 that occurred as a result. While we have income from multiple foreign sources, the majority of our non-U.S. operations are in the U.K. and India, where we anticipate the statutory tax rates to be 19.0% and 34.9%, respectively, in 2019. A future change in the composition of income before income taxes from foreign and domestic tax jurisdictions could impact our periodic effective tax rate. 



Liquidity and Capital Resources 



Our principal cash requirements are to finance the costs of our operations pending the billing and collection of client receivables, to fund payments with respect to our indebtedness, to invest in research and development, to acquire complementary businesses or assets and to pay dividends on our common stock. We expect our cash on hand, cash flows from operations, and cash available under our Credit Agreement to provide sufficient liquidity to fund our current obligations, projected working capital requirements and capital spending for at least the next twelve months. 



During the six months ended June 30, 2019, we paid quarterly cash dividends of $0.10 per share of common stock for each quarter totaling $50.6 million in the aggregate. During the six months ended June 30, 2018, we paid a quarterly cash dividends of $0.07 per share of common stock for each quarter totaling $31.4 million in the aggregate. 



Our cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash and cash equivalents, including amounts held on behalf of clients, were $1,073.8 million at June 30, 2019, a decrease of $39.5 million from $1,113.3 million at December 31, 2018.  



Client funds obligations represent our contractual obligations within the DST business to remit funds to satisfy client pharmacy claim obligations and are recorded on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet when incurred, generally after a claim has been processed by us. In addition, client funds obligations include transfer agency client balances invested overnight. Our contractual obligations to remit funds to satisfy client obligations are primarily sourced by funds held on behalf of clients. We had $1,026.7 million of client funds obligations at June 30, 2019. 







Net cash provided by operating activities was $416.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2019. Cash provided by operating activities primarily resulted from net income of $201.9 million adjusted for non-cash items of $341.2 million, partially offset by changes in our working capital accounts (excluding the effect of acquisitions) totaling $126.5 million. The changes in our working capital accounts were driven by decreases in accrued expenses, increases in contract assets, changes in income taxes prepaid and payable and decreases in deferred revenue, partially offset by decreases in prepaid expenses and other assets, decreases in accounts receivable and increases in accounts payable. The decrease in accrued expenses was primarily due to the payment of annual employee bonuses in the first quarter of 2019. The increase in contract assets was primarily due to new term license deals. The decrease in accounts receivable was primarily due to a decrease in days’ sales outstanding. The decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets and the increase in accounts payable were primarily due to the timing of payments.  





Investing activities used net cash of $26.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2019, primarily related to $32.5 million in capitalized software development costs and $27.0 million in capital expenditures, partially offset by proceeds from sales and maturities of investments of $22.5 million, the collection of other non-current receivables of $5.2 million, cash received of $3.2 million related to purchase price adjustments for prior acquisitions and $2.1 million in proceeds from unconsolidated affiliates. 



Financing activities used net cash of $429.8 million for the six months ended June 30, 2019, representing net repayments of debt totaling $414.9 million, $50.6 million in quarterly dividends paid, $18.8 million in withholding taxes paid related to equity award net share settlements, a net decrease in client funds obligations of $6.1 million and the payment of $5.8 million in fees related to debt extinguishment and refinancing activities. These payments were partially offset by proceeds of $66.4 million from stock option exercises.  



Our cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash and cash equivalents, including amounts held on behalf of clients, were $1,503.1 million at June 30, 2018, an increase of $1,438.4 million from $64.7 million at December 31, 2017. The increase in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash and cash equivalents is primarily due to proceeds received from our borrowings and common stock offering, the impact of restricted cash and cash equivalents held by DST as well cash provided by operations and proceeds from stock option exercises. These increases were partially offset by cash used for acquisitions, repayments of debt, payment of dividends and capital expenditures.  



Net cash provided by operating activities was $119.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018. Cash provided by operating activities primarily resulted from a net loss of $12.5 million adjusted for non-cash items of $215.7 million, partially offset by changes in our working capital accounts (excluding the effect of acquisitions) totaling $83.5 million. The changes in our working capital accounts were driven by decreases in accrued expenses, accounts payable and by changes in income taxes prepaid and payable, partially offset by decreases in accounts receivable, contract assets and prepaid expenses and other assets. In total, cash provided by operating activities was negatively affected by one-time payments totaling $135.0 million related to the DST acquisition. The decrease in accrued expenses was primarily due to the payment of annual employee bonuses in the first quarter of 2018. The decrease in accounts payable was primarily due to the timing of payments. The decrease in accounts receivable was primarily due to an overall decrease in days’ sales outstanding. The decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets was primarily due to the timing of payments, particularly as a result of the mid-month acquisition of DST. The decrease in contract assets was primarily due to the adoption of ASC 606. 



Investing activities used net cash of $4,648.8 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018, primarily related to cash paid for business acquisitions (net of cash acquired) of $4,622.3 million, $22.4 million in capital expenditures, $16.5 million in capitalized software development costs and $4.3 million in investments in securities, partially offset by proceeds from sales and maturities of investments of $11.7 million and proceeds from the sale of property and equipment of $4.7 million. 



Financing activities provided net cash of $5,969.4 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018, representing net cash of $6,873.7 million received from debt borrowings, net of original issue discount, net proceeds of $1,399.0 million from common stock issuance, net increase in client funds obligations of $374.8 million and proceeds of $55.3 million from stock option exercises. These proceeds were partially offset by repayments of debt totaling $2,622.8 million, the payment of $68.6 million in fees related to debt extinguishment and refinancing activities, $31.4 million in quarterly dividends paid and $10.6 million in withholding taxes paid related to equity award net share settlements. 



We have made a permanent reinvestment determination in certain non-U.S. operations that have historically generated positive operating cash flows. At June 30, 2019, we held approximately $77.6 million in cash and cash equivalents at non-U.S. subsidiaries where we had made such a determination and in turn, no provision for foreign withholding, foreign local, or U.S. state income taxes had been made. At June 30, 2019, we held approximately $59.7 million in cash that was available to our foreign borrowers under our senior secured credit facility and will be used to facilitate debt servicing of those entities. 



Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 



We have no off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that is material to investors. 



Senior Secured Credit Facilities 











The majority of the initial proceeds from the Initial Term Loans was used to fund our acquisition of DST, repay certain amounts outstanding under our then-existing credit agreement (“Prior Credit Agreement”), repay all of the outstanding principal amount of our 5.875% Senior Notes due 2023 (“Prior Senior Notes”) and repay acquired debt associated with DST.  



On October 1, 2018, in connection with our acquisition of Eze, we entered into an amendment (the “Commitment Increase Amendment”) to the Credit Agreement. Pursuant to the Commitment Increase Amendment, a new $875.0 million senior secured term B-5 facility (“Term B-5 Loan”, and together with the Initial Term Loans, the “Term Loans”) was made available to us, the proceeds of which were used to finance, in part, the Eze acquisition. 



On November 16, 2018, in connection with our acquisition of Intralinks, we entered into an amendment (the “Incremental Term Loan Amendment”) to the Credit Agreement. Pursuant to the Incremental Term Loan Amendment, an additional $1.0 billion under the Term B-5 Loan was made available to us, the proceeds of which were used to finance, in part, the Intralinks acquisition. 



The Term Loans and Revolving Credit Facility bear interest, at the election of the borrowers, at the base rate (as defined in the Credit Agreement) or LIBOR, plus the applicable interest rate margin for the credit facility. Amounts drawn on the Revolving Credit Facility initially bear interest at either LIBOR plus 2.25% or at the base rate plus 1.25%, subject to a step-down at any time our consolidated net secured leverage ratio is less than 4.75 times, to 2.0% in the case of the LIBOR margin and 1.0% in the case of the base rate margin. The Term B-1 Loan and Term B-2 Loan bear interest at either LIBOR plus 2.25% or at the base rate plus 1.25%. The Term B-3 Loan, Term B-4 Loan and Term B-5 Loan initially bear interest at either LIBOR plus 2.50% or at the base rate plus 1.50%, and are subject to a step-down at any time our consolidated net secured leverage ratio is less than 4.75 times, to 2.25% in the case of the LIBOR margin and 1.25% in the case of the base rate margin. 



As of June 30, 2019, there was $345.6 million in principal amount outstanding under the Term Loan B-1, $2,200.5 million in principal amount outstanding under the Term Loan B-3, $1,509.1 million in principal amount outstanding under the Term Loan B-4 and $1,850.8 million in principal amount outstanding under the Term B-5 Loan. There was no principal amount outstanding under the Term Loan B-2. As of June 30, 2019, there was no amount outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility. 







The obligations of the U.S. loan parties under the Credit Agreement are secured by substantially all of the assets of such persons (subject to customary exceptions and limitations), including a pledge of all of the capital stock of substantially all of the U.S. wholly-owned restricted subsidiaries of such persons (with customary exceptions and limitations) and 65% of the capital stock of certain foreign restricted subsidiaries of such persons (with customary exceptions and limitations). All obligations of the non-U.S. loan parties under the Credit Agreement are secured by substantially all of our and the other guarantors’ assets (subject to customary exceptions and limitations), including a pledge of all of the capital stock of substantially all of our wholly-owned restricted subsidiaries (with customary exceptions and limitations). 



The Credit Agreement includes negative covenants that, among other things and subject to certain thresholds and exceptions, limit our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to incur debt or liens, make investments (including in the form of loans  





and acquisitions), merge, liquidate or dissolve, sell property and assets, including capital stock of our subsidiaries, pay dividends on our capital stock or redeem, repurchase or retire our capital stock, alter the business we conduct, amend, prepay, redeem or purchase subordinated debt, or engage in transactions with our affiliates.  The Credit Agreement also contains customary representations and warranties, affirmative covenants and events of default, subject to customary thresholds and exceptions.  In addition, the Credit Agreement contains a financial covenant for the benefit of the Revolving Credit Facility requiring us to maintain a minimum consolidated net secured leverage ratio. In addition, under the Credit Agreement, certain defaults under agreements governing other material indebtedness could result in an event of default under the Credit Agreement, in which case the lenders could elect to accelerate payments under the Credit Agreement and terminate any commitments they have to provide future borrowings. 



Senior Notes 





At any time prior to March 30, 2022, we may, at our option, redeem the Senior Notes, in whole or in part, at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Senior Notes, plus an applicable “make-whole” premium, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date. At any time on or after March 30, 2022, we may redeem some or all of the Senior Notes, in whole or in part, at the redemption prices set forth in the indenture governing the Senior Notes plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date. In addition, at any time on or before March 30, 2022, we may to redeem up to 40% of the aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes at a redemption price equal to 105.5% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date, with the net proceeds of one or more equity offerings. We may also, from time to time in our sole discretion, purchase, redeem, or retire our existing senior notes, through tender offers, in privately negotiated or open market transactions, or otherwise. 



The indenture governing the Senior Notes contains a number of covenants that restrict, subject to certain thresholds and exceptions, our ability and the ability of our domestic restricted subsidiaries to incur debt or liens, make certain investments, pay dividends, dispose of certain assets, or enter into transactions with its affiliates. Any event of default under the Credit Agreement that leads to an acceleration of those amounts due also results in a default under the indenture governing the Senior Notes. 



As of June 30, 2019, there was $2.0 billion in principal amount of Senior Notes outstanding. 



Other Indebtedness 



In connection with the acquisition of DST, we assumed a mortgage with a principal amount of £21.0 million, which matures in October 2020 (“U.K. Mortgage”) and a $4.1 million mortgage on property in the U.S. The outstanding amount under the U.K. Mortgage was $22.9 million at June 30, 2019 with a fixed interest rate of 3.1%. Principal payments of £1.0 million are payable semi-annually in April and October of each year and accrued interest payable quarterly, with the outstanding balance due at maturity.  



Covenant Compliance 



Under the Revolving Credit Facility portion of the Credit Agreement, we are required to satisfy and maintain a specified financial ratio at the end of each fiscal quarter if the sum of (i) outstanding amount of all loans under the Revolving Credit Facility and (ii) all non-cash collateralized letters of credit issued under the Revolving Credit Facility in excess of $20 million is equal to or greater than 30% of the total commitments under the Revolving Credit Facility. Our financial ratio became effective with the period ended September 30, 2018. Our ability to meet this financial ratio can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet this ratio. Any breach of this covenant could result in an event of default under the Credit Agreement. Upon the occurrence of any event of default under the Credit Agreement, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the Credit Agreement to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. Any default and subsequent acceleration of payments under the Credit Agreement would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Additionally, under the Credit Agreement, our ability to engage in activities such as incurring additional indebtedness, making investments and paying dividends is also tied to baskets and ratios based on Consolidated EBITDA. 



Consolidated EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure used in key financial covenants contained in the Credit Agreement, which is the material facility supporting our capital structure and providing liquidity to our business. Consolidated EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”), further adjusted to exclude unusual items and  





other adjustments permitted in calculating covenant compliance under the Credit Agreement.  We believe that the inclusion of supplementary adjustments to EBITDA applied in presenting Consolidated EBITDA is appropriate to provide additional information to investors to demonstrate compliance with the specified financial ratio and other financial condition tests contained in the Credit Agreement. 



Management uses Consolidated EBITDA to gauge the costs of our capital structure on a day-to-day basis when full financial statements are unavailable. Management further believes that providing this information allows our investors greater transparency and a better understanding of our ability to meet our debt service obligations and make capital expenditures. 



Consolidated EBITDA does not represent net income or cash flow from operations as those terms are defined by generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, and does not necessarily indicate whether cash flows will be sufficient to fund cash needs. Further, the Credit Agreement requires that Consolidated EBITDA be calculated for the most recent four fiscal quarters. As a result, the measure can be disproportionately affected by a particularly strong or weak quarter. Further, it may not be comparable to the measure for any subsequent four-quarter period or any complete fiscal year. 





•  



Consolidated EBITDA does not reflect the significant interest expense we incur as a result of our debt leverage;  



•  



Consolidated EBITDA does not reflect the provision of income tax expense in our various jurisdictions; 



•  



Consolidated EBITDA does not reflect any attribution of costs to our operations related to our investments and capital expenditures through depreciation and amortization charges; 



•  



Consolidated EBITDA does not reflect the cost of compensation we provide to our employees in the form of stock-based awards;  



•  



Consolidated EBITDA does not reflect the equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates; and  



•  



Consolidated EBITDA excludes expenses and income that are permitted to be excluded per the terms of our Credit Agreement, but which others may believe are normal expenses for the operation of a business. 



The following is a reconciliation of net income to Consolidated EBITDA as defined in our Credit Agreement. 









Acquired EBITDA reflects the EBITDA impact of significant businesses that were acquired during the period as if the acquisition occurred at the beginning of the period, as well as cost savings enacted in connection with acquisitions. 





Purchase accounting adjustments include (a) an adjustment to increase revenues by the amount that would have been recognized if deferred revenue were not adjusted to fair value at the date of acquisitions, (b) an adjustment to increase personnel and  









Other includes expenses and income that are permitted to be excluded per the terms of our Credit Agreement from Consolidated EBITDA, a financial measure used in calculating our covenant compliance. These include expenses and income related to foreign currency transactions, investment gains and losses, facilities and workforce restructuring, legal settlements, business combinations and other items. 











Calculated as the ratio of consolidated net secured funded indebtedness, net of cash and cash equivalents, to Consolidated EBITDA, as defined by the Credit Agreement, for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters ended on the measurement date. Consolidated net secured funded indebtedness is comprised of indebtedness for borrowed money, letters of credit, deferred purchase price obligations and capital lease obligations, all of which is secured by liens on our property. 



Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements 





We adopted ASU 2016-02 as of January 1, 2019. Prior period information was not restated and continues to be presented under ASC 840, Leases. We elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance within the new standard, which among other things, allowed us to not reassess existing contracts to determine if they contain a lease and to carry forward their historical lease classification upon transition. In addition, we will not apply the guidance of ASC 842 to leases with an initial term of 12 months or less as allowed by the standard. 



Our lease portfolio primarily consists of real estate office space with lease terms ranging from 1 to 15 years. Adoption of the new standard resulted in the recording of right-of-use assets and lease payment obligations for our real estate office leases of $387.6 million and $417.8 million, respectively, as of January 1, 2019. As of June 30, 2019, $56.2 million of the lease liability was included in other accrued expenses on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. The standard did not materially impact our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (Loss) or Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. See Note 3, “Leases” for further details. 



Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Effective 



In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments. ASU 2016-13 requires companies to measure credit losses utilizing a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires a consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates. ASU 2016-13 is effective for us for our first quarter of fiscal 2020 and earlier adoption is permitted beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. Application of the ASU is through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the effective date. We are currently evaluating the impact of the pending adoption of ASU 2016-13 on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. This ASU is not expected to have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  





