The financial statements and footnotes are unaudited.
The periods presented in this Form 10-Q are reported on a comparable basis.
The company provided recast historical segment information reflecting these changes in a Form 8-K dated April 4, 2019.
Noncontrolling interest amounts of $4.9 million and $3.8 million, net of tax, for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $11.9 million and $11.7 million, net of tax, for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, are included as a reduction within other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
The information included in this Form 10-Q should be read in conjunction with the company’s 2018 Annual Report.
Percentages presented are calculated from the underlying whole-dollar amounts.
This is annotated where applicable.
In January 2017, the FASB issued guidance that simplifies the goodwill impairment test by removing Step 2.
The guidance also changes the requirements for reporting units with zero or negative carrying amounts and requires additional disclosures for these reporting units.
The company is evaluating the impact of the guidance.Item 2.
Effective with the first quarter of 2019, the company made a number of changes to its organizational structure and management system.
As a result of these changes, the company revised its reportable segments.
Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates or adjusting for currency will be higher or lower than growth reported at actual exchange rates.
Refer to “Currency Rate Fluctuations” for additional information.
This acquisition is an important milestone for the company, and one that will significantly impact the cloud landscape.
It is clear that the next chapter of cloud will be about shifting mission-critical work to the cloud and optimizing everything from supply chains to core banking systems.
This requires a hybrid, multicloud, open approach, to provide portability, management consistency and security for enterprise workloads.
Over the trailing 12 months, total cloud revenue was $19.5 billion, up 5 percent (8 percent adjusted for currency) year to year.