fls.txt



item1.txt
Interim results are not necessarily indicative of financial results for a full year.
The information included in this Form 10-Q should be read in conjunction with the company’s 2017 Annual Report.
Percentages presented are calculated from the underlying whole-dollar amounts.
This is annotated where applicable.
In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued guidance for credit impairment based on an expected loss model rather than an incurred loss model.
The guidance is effective January 1, 2020 with a one year early adoption permitted.
The company has established an implementation team and is evaluating the impact of the new guidance.
The FASB issued guidance in February 2016, with amendments in 2018, which changes the accounting for leases.
There are certain practical expedients that can be elected which the company is currently evaluating for application.
The company will adopt the guidance as of the effective date.
A cross-functional implementation team has been established which is evaluating the lease portfolio, system, process and policy change requirements.
In January 2016, the FASB issued guidance which addresses aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of financial instruments.
Certain equity investments are now measured at fair value with changes recognized in net income.
The amendment also simplified the impairment test of equity investments that lack readily determinable fair value.
The FASB issued guidance on the recognition of revenue from contracts with customers in May 2014 with amendments in 2015 and 2016.
In-scope sales commission costs previously recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings were capitalized in deferred costs in accordance with the transition guidance, in the amount of $737 million.


item2.txt
Item 2.
As a result, the company aligned its presentation of operating (non-GAAP) earnings to conform to the FASB presentation of these costs in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
The periods presented in this Form 10-Q are reported on a comparable basis.
Financial results adjusted for currency are calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period’s currency conversion rate.
Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates or adjusting for currency will be higher or lower than growth reported at actual exchange rates.
The annual exit run rate for as-a-Service revenue increased to $10.7 billion in the first quarter of 2018 compared to $8.6 billion in the first quarter of 2017.
The consolidated gross margin of 43.2 percent decreased 0.5 points year to year.
The operating (non-GAAP) gross margin of 43.7 percent decreased 0.7 points.
The continuing operations effective tax rate was (47.5) percent compared to (23.1) percent in the first quarter of 2017.
Operating (non-GAAP) income from continuing operations of $2.3 billion increased 2.1 percent with an operating (non-GAAP) income margin from continuing operations of 11.9 percent, a decline of 0.3 points year to year.
The operating (non-GAAP) effective tax rate from continuing operations in the first quarter of 2018 was (30.5) percent.
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $1.81 decreased 2.2 percent year to year.
Operating (non-GAAP) diluted earnings per share of $2.45 increased 4.3 percent versus the first quarter of 2017.


item4.txt



part2.txt



