fls.txt



item1.txt
Noncontrolling interest amounts of $6.2 million and $4.4 million, net of tax, for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $17.9 million and $11.5 million, net of tax, for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, are included as a reduction within other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
The information included in this Form 10-Q should be read in conjunction with the company’s 2017 Annual Report.
Percentages presented are calculated from the underlying whole-dollar amounts.
This is annotated where applicable.
In August 2018, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued guidance on a customer’s accounting for implementation costs incurred in cloud-computing arrangements that are hosted by a vendor.
Certain types of implementation costs should be capitalized and amortized over the term of the hosting arrangement.
In June 2016, the FASB issued guidance for credit impairment based on an expected loss model rather than an incurred loss model.
A cross-functional team has been established that is evaluating the financial instruments portfolio and system, process and policy change requirements.
The FASB issued guidance in February 2016, with amendments in 2018, which changes the accounting for leases.
adopt the guidance as of the effective date and will apply the transition option, whereby prior comparative periods will not be retrospectively presented in the consolidated financial statements.
The other practical expedients available under the guidance are being evaluated.
A cross-functional implementation team is evaluating the lease portfolio, system, process, control and policy change requirements.
The company has made significant progress in these areas as well as in gathering the necessary data elements for the lease population.
As a lessee, the company’s operating lease commitments were $6.6 billion at December 31, 2017.
In January 2016, the FASB issued guidance which addresses aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of financial instruments.
Certain equity investments are now measured at fair value with changes recognized in net income.


item2.txt
Item 2.
As a result, the company aligned its presentation of operating (non-GAAP) earnings to conform to the FASB presentation of these costs in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
The periods presented in this Form 10-Q are reported on a comparable basis.
Financial results adjusted for currency are calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period’s currency conversion rate.
Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates or adjusting for currency will be higher or lower than growth reported at actual exchange rates.
In the third quarter of 2018, the company reported $18.8 billion in revenue, $2.7 billion in income from continuing operations and operating (non-GAAP) earnings of $3.1 billion, resulting in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $2.94 as reported and $3.42 on an operating (non-GAAP) basis.
The annual exit run rate for as-a-Service revenue increased to $11.4 billion in the third quarter of 2018 compared to $9.4 billion in the third quarter of 2017.
This benefit was partially offset by a lower level of intellectual property (IP) income (1 point) compared to the prior year.
Net income of $2.7 billion decreased 1.2 percent year to year.
Operating (non-GAAP) income from continuing operations of $3.1 billion increased 2.9 percent with an operating (non-GAAP) income margin from continuing operations of 16.7 percent, an increase of 0.8 points year to year.
The operating (non-GAAP) effective tax rate from continuing operations in the third quarter of 2018 was 12.8 percent, a decline of 2.0 points.
Net cash used in financing activities of $0.4 billion decreased $2.3 billion compared to the third quarter of 2017, driven primarily by a decrease in net cash used for debt transactions ($2.0 billion) and a decrease in cash used for gross common share repurchases ($0.3 billion).
The company continues to expect free cash flow to be approximately $12 billion in 2018.
Free cash flow realization is expected to be in excess of 100 percent of GAAP net income.


item4.txt



part2.txt



