Interim results are not necessarily indicative of financial results for a full year.
The information included in this Form 10-Q should be read in conjunction with the company’s 2017 Annual Report.
Percentages presented are calculated from the underlying whole-dollar amounts.
This is annotated where applicable.
In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued guidance for credit impairment based on an expected loss model rather than an incurred loss model.
The guidance is effective January 1, 2020 with a one year early adoption permitted.
The company has established an implementation team and is evaluating the impact of the new guidance.
The FASB issued guidance in February 2016, with amendments in 2018, which changes the accounting for leases.
There are certain practical expedients that can be elected which the company is currently evaluating for application.
The company will adopt the guidance as of the effective date.Item 2.
As a result, the company aligned its presentation of operating (non-GAAP) earnings to conform to the FASB presentation of these costs in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
The periods presented in this Form 10-Q are reported on a comparable basis.
Financial results adjusted for currency are calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period’s currency conversion rate.
Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates or adjusting for currency will be higher or lower than growth reported at actual exchange rates.
In the second quarter of 2018, the company reported $20.0 billion in revenue, $2.4 billion in income from continuing operations and operating (non-GAAP) earnings of $2.8 billion, resulting in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $2.61 as reported and $3.08 on an operating (non-GAAP) basis.
The annual exit run rate for as-a-Service revenue increased to $11.1 billion in the second quarter of 2018 compared to $8.8 billion in the second quarter of 2017.
The consolidated gross margin of 46.0 percent decreased 0.5 points year to year.
The continuing operations effective tax rate was 13.5 percent compared to 4.5 percent in the second quarter of 2017.