item1.txt
However, in management’s opinion, the financial information reflects all adjustments, including those of a normal recurring nature, necessary to present fairly the results of operations, financial position, and cash flows of the Company for the periods presented.
The results of operations, financial position, and cash flows for the Company during the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of those expected for the full year.
This information should be read in conjunction with the Company’s financial statements and notes thereto contained in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2017, filed with the SEC on November 13, 2017, as amended by Amendment No. 1 to such Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the SEC on January 26, 2018 (the “2017 10-K”).
In March 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2016-09, Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting, which is intended to simplify several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows.
The Company adopted ASU 2016-09 at the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal year 2018.
As a result of adoption, the Company recognized a discrete income tax benefit of $23.6 million to the income tax provision for excess tax benefits generated by the settlement of share-based awards for the nine months ended June 29, 2018.
The adoption also resulted in an increase in cash flow from operations and a decrease of cash flow from financing of $23.6 million for the nine months ended June 29, 2018.
The change in accounting for forfeitures was applied using a modified retrospective transition method and resulted in a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 in the amount of $1.9 million.
The adoption of this standard did not impact the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
In August 2015, the FASB deferred the effective date of ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and will supersede most current revenue recognition guidance.
The new guidance is required to be applied retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented or retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying it recognized at the date of initial application.
The Company will adopt this guidance during the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and currently expects to apply the modified retrospective approach, with the cumulative effect of applying the new guidance recognized as an adjustment to the opening retained earnings balance.
The assessment process consists of reviewing the Company's current accounting policies and practices to identify potential differences that would result from applying the requirements of the new standard to its revenue contracts and identifying appropriate changes to the business processes, systems and controls to support revenue recognition and disclosure requirements under the new standard.
The Company is continuing to evaluate the potential impact of the new revenue standard on its business processes, systems, controls and consolidated financial statements.
Based on its preliminary assessments, the Company does not expect the new guidance to have a material impact on the nature, amount, and timing of its revenue recognition.


item2.txt
In this document, the words “we,” “our,” “ours” and “us” refer only to Skyworks Solutions, Inc. and its subsidiaries and not any other person or entity.
We, together with our consolidated subsidiaries, are empowering the wireless networking revolution.
Our highly innovative analog semiconductors are connecting people, places, and things spanning a number of new and previously unimagined applications within the automotive, broadband, cellular infrastructure, connected home, industrial, medical, military, smartphone, tablet and wearable markets.
We generated net revenue of $894.3 million for the three months ended June 29, 2018, a decrease of $6.5 million or 0.7%, as compared with $900.8 million for the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017.
Net revenue increased by 7.2% or $192.8 million to $2,859.6 million for the nine months ended June 29, 2018, as compared with $2,666.8 million for the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017.
This increase in net revenue for the nine months ended June 29, 2018, is primarily related to an increase in demand for our components from smartphone customers and an increase in demand from customers within the Internet of Things, automotive, industrial, medical and military industries, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, offset by decreases in average selling prices.
Gross profit margin increased to 50.5% of net revenue for the three months ended June 29, 2018, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017.
Gross profit margin increased to 50.6% of net revenue for the nine months ended June 29, 2018, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017.
The increase in research and development expenses for the three and nine months ended June 29, 2018, as compared with the corresponding periods in fiscal year 2017, was primarily related to an increase in employee-related compensation expense and product development–related expenses.
Cash provided by operating activities consists of net income for the period adjusted for certain non-cash items and changes in certain operating assets and liabilities.


item3.txt
We are subject to overall financial market risks, such as changes in market liquidity, credit quality, investment risk, interest rate risk, and foreign exchange rate risk as described below.
Our exposure to interest rate and general market risks relates principally to our investment portfolio, which consists of cash and cash equivalents (money market funds and marketable securities purchased with less than ninety days until maturity) that total approximately $1,158.1 million and marketable securities (U.S. Treasury and government securities, corporate bonds and notes, municipal bonds, other government securities) that total approximately $384.4 million and $106.3 million within short-term and long-term marketable securities, respectively, as of June 29, 2018.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
The shares are issuable for no cash payment but only upon the achievement of certain product sale milestones, certain terminations of the agreement or if the Company engages in certain competition with the third party.


