item1.txt
Certain information and footnote disclosures, normally included in annual consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”), have been condensed or omitted pursuant to those rules and regulations.
However, in management’s opinion, the financial information reflects all adjustments, including those of a normal recurring nature, necessary to present fairly the results of operations, financial position, and cash flows of the Company for the periods presented.
The results of operations, financial position, and cash flows for the Company during the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of those expected for the full year.
This information should be read in conjunction with the Company’s financial statements and notes thereto contained in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2017, filed with the SEC on November 13, 2017, as amended by Amendment No. 1 to such Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the SEC on January 26, 2018 (the “2017 10-K”).
In March 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2016-09, Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting, which is intended to simplify several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows.
The Company adopted ASU 2016-09 at the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal year 2018.
As a result of adoption, the Company recognized a discrete income tax benefit of $22.5 million to the income tax provision for excess tax benefits generated by the settlement of share-based awards for the six months ended March 30, 2018.
The adoption also resulted in an increase in cash flow from operations and a decrease of cash flow from financing of $22.5 million for the six months ended March 30, 2018.
The change in accounting for forfeitures was applied using a modified retrospective transition method and resulted in a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 in the amount of $1.9 million.
The adoption of this standard did not impact the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
In August 2015, the FASB deferred the effective date of ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and will supersede most current revenue recognition guidance.
The new guidance is required to be applied retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented or retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying it recognized at the date of initial application.
We will adopt this guidance during the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and currently expect to apply the modified retrospective approach, with the cumulative effect of applying the new guidance recognized as an adjustment to the opening retained earnings balance.


item2.txt
In this document, the words “we,” “our,” “ours” and “us” refer only to Skyworks Solutions, Inc. and its subsidiaries and not any other person or entity.
We, together with our consolidated subsidiaries, are empowering the wireless networking revolution.
Our highly innovative analog semiconductors are connecting people, places, and things spanning a number of new and previously unimagined applications within the automotive, broadband, cellular infrastructure, connected home, industrial, medical, military, smartphone, tablet and wearable markets.
•Net revenue increased by 11% to $1,965 million for the six months ended March 30, 2018, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017.
This increase in revenue was primarily driven by our success in capturing a higher share of the increasing radio frequency and analog content per device as smartphone models continue to evolve, the increasing number of applications for the Internet of Things, and our expanding analog product portfolio supporting new vertical markets including automotive, industrial, medical and military.
This increase in cash and cash equivalents was primarily the result of cash generated from operations of $795 million, partially offset by the repurchase of 2.7 million shares of common stock for $284 million, dividend payments of $118 million, and capital expenditures of $119 million during the six months ended March 30, 2018.
March 30, 2018, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, due to the overall increase in revenue and the aforementioned factors.
The decrease in amortization expense for the three and six months ended March 30, 2018, as compared with the corresponding periods in fiscal year 2017, was primarily due to the end of the useful lives of certain intangible assets that were acquired in prior fiscal years.
Restructuring and other charges for the three and six months ended March 30, 2018, are related to an adjustment to previously announced restructuring plans.
Cash used in investing activities consists primarily of cash paid for acquisitions net of cash acquired, capital expenditures, cash received from the sale of capital assets, and cash related to the sale or maturity of investments.
Cash used in investing activities was $124.5 million during the six months ended March 30, 2018, as compared with $115.5 million during the six months ended March 31, 2017.


item3.txt
We are subject to overall financial market risks, such as changes in market liquidity, credit quality, investment risk, interest rate risk, and foreign exchange rate risk as described below.
Our cash equivalent investments have short-term maturity periods that dampen the impact of market or interest rate risk.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
On November 15, 2017, we agreed to potentially issue not more than 1% of our common stock to an unaffiliated third party as contingent consideration for its role under a multi-year collaboration agreement.
The shares are issuable for no cash payment but only upon the achievement of certain product sale milestones, certain terminations of the agreement or if the Company engages in 


