fls.txt



item1.txt
These unaudited interim consolidated condensed financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Applied’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 29, 2017 (2017 Form 10-K).
In July 2015, the Financial Accounting Standard Board (FASB) issued authoritative guidance that requires inventory to be measured at the lower of cost and net realizable value instead of at lower of cost or market.
This guidance does not apply to inventory that is measured using last-in, first out (LIFO) or the retail inventory method but applies to all other inventory including those measured using first-in, first-out (FIFO) or the average cost method.
The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on Applied’s consolidated financial statements.
In the six months ended April 29, 2018, Applied recognized an excess tax benefit of $53 million in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Operations.
In August 2017, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that modifies the recognition and presentation of hedge accounting to better align an entity’s risk management strategies and financial reporting for hedging relationships.
The authoritative guidance expands the application of hedge accounting for non-financial and financial risk components and eases certain hedge effectiveness assessment requirements.
The adoption of this guidance is not expected to have a significant impact on Applied’s consolidated financial statements.
In January 2017, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that clarifies the definition of a business to help companies evaluate whether acquisition or disposal transactions should be accounted for as asset groups or as businesses.
The authoritative guidance will be effective for Applied in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 on a prospective basis, with early adoption permitted.
The adoption of this guidance is not expected to have a significant impact on Applied’s consolidated financial statements.
In February 2016, the FASB issued authoritative guidance for lease accounting, which requires lessees to recognize lease assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for certain lease arrangements that are classified as operating leases under the previous standard, and to provide for enhanced disclosures.
The authoritative guidance will be effective for Applied in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and should be applied using a modified retrospective approach.
In May 2014, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that requires revenue recognition to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services, and requires certain additional disclosures.
In fiscal 2016, Applied established a project steering committee and cross-functional implementation team to identify potential differences that would result from applying the requirements of the new standard to Applied’s revenue contracts.


item2.txt
These customers may use what they manufacture in their own end products or sell the items to other companies for use in advanced electronic components.
During the first six months of fiscal 2018, healthy investment in semiconductor manufacturing equipment and services continued to be a strong driver of revenue.
Customers invested in a new generation of equipment for producing larger LCD TVs and continued to invest in new equipment for mobile devices.
The second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018 included a one-time expense related to the enactment of recent U.S. tax legislation that reduced diluted earnings per share by $0.07 and $1.02, respectively.
The Semiconductor Systems segment’s relative share of total net sales continued to represent the largest contributor of net sales.
Applied’s future operating results depend to a considerable extent on its ability to maintain a competitive advantage in the equipment and service products it provides.
Development cycles range from 12 to 36 months depending on whether the product is an enhancement of an existing product, which typically has a shorter development cycle, or a new product, which typically has a longer development cycle.
Marketing and selling expenses increased in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018 compared to the same periods in fiscal 2017 primarily due to additional headcount.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
The industries that Applied serves can be volatile and difficult to predict.
The amount and mix of capital equipment spending between different products and technologies can have a significant impact on the Company’s results of operations.
To meet rapidly changing demand in the industries it serves, Applied must accurately forecast demand and effectively manage its resources and production capacity across its businesses, and may incur unexpected or additional costs to align its business operations.
During periods of increasing demand for its products, Applied must have sufficient manufacturing capacity and inventory to meet customer demand; effectively manage its supply chain; attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified employees; and continue to control costs.
If Applied does not effectively manage these challenges during periods of changing demand, its business performance and results of operations may be adversely impacted.
Applied is exposed to risks associated with an uncertain global economy.


