fls.txt



item1.txt
These unaudited interim consolidated condensed financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Applied’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 28, 2018 (2018 Form 10-K).
All financial statements and disclosures have been recast to comply with this new guidance.
Applied adopted various amended guidance during the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
This allowance is based on historical experience, credit evaluations, specific customer collection history and any customer-specific issues Applied has identified.
Taxes collected from customers and remitted to governmental authorities are presented on a net basis in the accompanying Consolidated Condensed Statements of Operations.
Applied provides for the estimated cost of warranty when revenue is recognized.
Applied’s warranty obligation is affected by product and component failure rates, material usage and labor costs incurred in correcting product failures during the warranty period.
Applied also sells extended warranty contracts to its customers which provide an extension of the standard warranty coverage period of up to 2 years.
Applied recognizes revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration to which Applied expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
Collectability is assessed based on the customer’s creditworthiness determined by reviewing the customer’s published credit and financial information, historical payment experience, as well as other relevant factors.
Applied’s service agreements are considered one performance obligation and may include multiple goods and services that Applied provides to the customer to deliver against a performance metric.
Judgment is used to determine whether multiple promised goods or services in a contract should be accounted for separately or as a group.
The transaction price for Applied’s contracts with customers may include fixed and variable consideration.
Applied generally estimates the standalone selling price of a distinct performance obligation based on historical cost plus an appropriate margin.
Revenue from service agreements is recognized over time as customers receive the benefits of services.
The incremental costs to obtain a contract are not material.


item2.txt
These customers may use what they manufacture in their own end products or sell the items to other companies for use in advanced electronic components.
Investment in semiconductor and display manufacturing equipment and services continued to be the main driver of revenue during the first nine months of fiscal 2019.
Semiconductor and display manufacturing equipment customers’ investments in new capacity and technology transitions decreased compared to the same period in the prior year.
Applied continued to see growth in demand for services and continued demand for spares from customers as compared to the same period in the prior year.
While Applied anticipates major technology trends to drive long-term growth in the semiconductor industry, the softening in demand that began during the second half of 2018 is expected to continue through 2019, led primarily by lower spending from memory customers.
Foundry and logic spending is expected to increase year-on-year; however, customers are prioritizing spending on longer lead-time equipment not in Applied’s product portfolio.
The three and nine months ended July 29, 2018 included a one-time expense related to the enactment of new U.S. tax legislation that reduced diluted earnings per share by $0.01 and $1.05, respectively.
Applied’s future operating results depend to a considerable extent on its ability to maintain a competitive advantage in the equipment and service products it provides.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
The industries that Applied serves can be volatile and difficult to predict.
The amount and mix of capital equipment spending between different products and technologies can have a significant impact on the Company’s results of operations.
To meet rapidly changing demand in the industries it serves, Applied must accurately forecast demand and effectively manage its resources and production capacity across its businesses, and may incur unexpected or additional costs to align its business operations.
During periods of increasing demand for its products, Applied must have sufficient manufacturing capacity and inventory to meet customer demand; effectively manage its supply chain; attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified employees; and continue to control costs.
If Applied does not effectively manage these challenges during periods of changing demand, its business performance and results of operations may be adversely impacted.


