item1.txt
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of Marvell Technology Group Ltd., a Bermuda exempted company, and its wholly owned subsidiaries (the “Company”), as of and for the three months ended May 4, 2019, have been prepared as required by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes should be read in conjunction with the Company's fiscal year 2019 audited financial statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 2, 2019.
In the opinion of management, the financial statements include all adjustments, including normal recurring adjustments and other adjustments, that are considered necessary for fair presentation of the Company’s financial position and results of operations.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued a new standard on the accounting for leases, which amends the existing guidance to require lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for the rights and obligation created by long-term leases and to disclose additional quantitative and qualitative information about leasing arrangements.
Additionally, the Company incurred $2.9 million of equity issuance costs, which were recorded in additional paid-in capital in the condensed consolidated balance sheet.
The unaudited supplemental pro forma information presented below is for informational purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of our consolidated results of operations of the combined business had the Cavium acquisition actually occurred at the beginning of fiscal year 2018 or of the results of our future operations of the combined business.
The Credit Agreement requires that the Company and its subsidiaries comply, subject to certain exceptions, with covenants relating to customary matters such as creating or permitting certain liens, entering into sale and leaseback transactions, consolidating, merging, liquidating or dissolving, and entering into restrictive agreements.
It also prohibits subsidiaries of the Company from incurring additional indebtedness, and requires the Company to comply with a leverage ratio financial covenant not to exceed 3 to 1 as of the end of any fiscal quarter.
In addition, upon the occurrence of a change of control repurchase event (which involves the occurrence of both a change of control and a ratings event involving the Senior Notes being rated below investment grade), the Company will be required to make an offer to repurchase the Senior Notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the repurchase date.
The indenture governing the Senior Notes also contains certain limited covenants restricting the Company’s ability to incur certain liens, enter into certain sale and leaseback transactions and merge or consolidate with any other entity or convey, transfer or lease all or substantially all of the Company’s properties or assets to another person, which, in each case, are subject to certain qualifications and exceptions.
During the three months ended May 4, 2019, the Company recognized $19.3 million of interest expense in its condensed consolidated statements of operations related to interest, amortization of debt issuance costs and accretion of discount associated with the outstanding Term Loan and Senior Notes, respectively.
Under the Company’s manufacturing relationships with its foundry partners, cancellation of outstanding purchase orders is allowed but requires payment of all costs and expenses incurred through the date of cancellation.
As of May 4, 2019, these foundries had incurred approximately $152.4 million of manufacturing costs and expenses relating to the Company’s outstanding purchase orders.
While the Company cannot predict with certainty the results of the Legal Matters in which it is currently involved, the Company does not expect that the ultimate costs to resolve these Legal Matters will individually or in the aggregate have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, however, there can be no assurance that the current or any future Legal Matters will be resolved in a manner that is not adverse to the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
During its normal course of business, the Company has made certain indemnities, commitments and guarantees under which it may be required to make payments in relation to certain transactions.
These indemnities may include indemnities for general commercial obligations, indemnities to various lessors in connection with facility leases for certain claims arising from such facility or lease, and indemnities to directors and officers of the Company to the maximum extent permitted under the laws of Bermuda.
In addition, the Company has contractual commitments to various customers, which could require the Company to incur costs to repair an epidemic defect with respect to its products outside of the normal warranty period if such defect were to occur.
In addition, this grouping includes a few legacy product lines in which the Company no longer invests, but will generate revenue for several years.
The Company’s quarterly tax provision, and estimate of its annual effective tax rate, is subject to variation due to several factors, including variability in accurately predicting our pre-tax income or loss and the mix of jurisdictions to which they relate, intercompany transactions, the applicability of special tax regimes, changes in how we do business, and acquisitions, as well as the integration of such acquisitions.
The Company estimates that its effective tax rate could be adversely affected by pre-tax losses incurred in certain non-U.S. jurisdictions subject to tax rates lower than 21% for which it does not realize a tax benefit.
The Company operates under tax incentives in certain countries that may be extended if certain additional requirements are satisfied.
The Company plans to use such amounts to fund various activities outside of Bermuda, including working capital requirements, capital expenditures for expansion, funding of future acquisitions or other financing activities.
The Company will pay GlobalFoundries $650 million in cash at closing plus an additional $90 million in cash if certain business conditions are satisfied within the next 15 months.
In addition, if regulatory activity, such as enforcement of U.S. export control and sanctions laws, or the imposition of new tariffs, were to materially limit our ability to make sales to any of our significant customers, it could harm our results of operations, reputation and financial condition.
common stock for $13.25 per share in cash, (ii) a definitive agreement dated May 20, 2019 to purchase Avera Semiconductor, the Application Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC) business of GLOBALFOUNDRIES for $650 million in cash at closing plus an additional $90 million in cash if certain business conditions are satisfied within the next 15 months and (iii) an asset purchase agreement with NXP USA, Inc. dated May 29, 2019 pursuant to which we agreed to sell to NXP certain assets related to our wireless business for $1.76 billion in cash at closing (collectively, the “Pending Transactions”).
We rely on our customers to design our products into their systems, and the nature of the design process requires us to incur expenses prior to customer commitments to use our products or recognizing revenues associated with those expenses which may adversely affect our financial results.
Even if our customers’ system designers select our products, a substantial period of time will elapse before we generate revenues related to the significant expenses we have incurred.
We depend on a few customers for our SSD controllers and as such, the loss of any SSD controller customer or a significant reduction in sales we make to them may harm our financial condition and results of operations.
Although the Credit Agreement contains restriction on the incurrence of additional indebtedness and the indenture under which the Senior Notes were issued contains restrictions on creating liens and entering into certain sale-leaseback transactions, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the additional indebtedness, liens or sale-leaseback transactions incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial.
The restrictions, among other things, restrict our ability and our subsidiaries’ ability to create or incur certain liens, incur or guarantee additional indebtedness, merge or consolidate with other companies, pay dividends, transfer or sell assets and make restricted payments.
If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to borrow sufficient funds in the future to service our debt, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt (including the Senior Notes) or obtain additional financing.
We rely on independent foundries and subcontractors for the manufacture, assembly and testing of our integrated circuit products, and the failure of any of these third-party vendors to deliver products or otherwise perform as requested could damage our relationships with our customers, decrease our sales and limit our ability to grow our business.
As a result, if we needed to implement alternate manufacturing facilities, we could experience significant expenses and delays in product shipments, which could harm our results of operations.
See also, “We may experience difficulties in transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies or in achieving higher levels of design integration, which may result in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses.” Moreover, if any of our third-party foundry suppliers are unable to secure necessary raw materials from their suppliers, lose benefits under material agreements, experience power outages, lack sufficient capacity to manufacture our products, encounter financial difficulties or suffer any other disruption or reduction in efficiency, we may encounter supply delays or disruptions, which could harm our business or results of operations.
In order to secure sufficient foundry capacity when demand is high and to mitigate the risks described in the foregoing paragraph, we may enter into various arrangements with suppliers that could be costly and harm our results of operations, such as nonrefundable deposits with or loans to foundries in exchange for capacity commitments, or contracts that commit us to purchase specified quantities of integrated circuits over extended periods.
Poor yields from our foundries, or defects, integration issues or other performance problems with our products could cause us significant customer relations and business reputation problems, harm our financial performance and result in financial or other damages to our customers.
To the extent that we rely on outside suppliers to manufacture or assemble and test our products, we may have a reduced ability to directly control product delivery schedules and quality assurance, which could result in product shortages or quality assurance problems that could delay shipments or increase costs.
In the past, we have experienced some difficulties in shifting to smaller geometry process technologies or new manufacturing processes, which resulted in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses.
If we or any of our foundry subcontractors experience significant delays in this transition or fail to efficiently implement this transition, we could experience reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses, all of which could harm our relationships with our customers and our results of operations.
Our indemnification obligations and limitations of our director and officer liability insurance may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
Due to these coverage limitations, we may incur significant unreimbursed costs to satisfy our indemnification obligations, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
Although the Company takes steps to secure confidential information that is provided to third parties, such measures may not always be effective and data breaches, losses or other unauthorized access to or releases of confidential information may occur and could materially adversely affect the Company’s reputation, financial condition and operating results.
In connection with the Cavium acquisition, we have been subject to regulatory conditions imposed by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS) pursuant to a Letter of Assurance (LA) where we have agreed to implement certain cyber security, physical security and training measures to protect national security, which may materially and adversely affect our operating results due to the increased cost of compliance with these measures.
Matters relating to or arising from our Audit Committee investigation, including regulatory proceedings, litigation matters and potential additional expenses, may adversely affect our business and results of operations.
As previously disclosed in our public filings, in March 2016, the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors completed an investigation that generally included a review of certain revenue recognized in the first and second quarters of fiscal 2016 and the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015, including transactions that would have, in the normal course of events and but for action by certain Marvell employees, been completed and recognized in a subsequent quarter (referred to internally as “pull-ins”), the accrual of a litigation reserve in the second quarter of fiscal 2016, and the stated belief by Marvell’s former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of ownership of certain patent rights related to the Final-Level Cache invention and his later assignment of associated patent rights to Marvell.
The expenses incurred, the impact of our delay in fiscal 2016 and the beginning of fiscal 2017 in meeting our periodic reports on the confidence of investors, employees and customers, and the diversion of the attention of the management team that occurred adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations or cash flows.


item2.txt
This increase was partially offset by a decrease in our storage product sales and other product sales, which decreased by 12% and 2%, respectively, in relation to the three months ended May 5, 2018.
For the three months ended May 4, 2019, we repurchased 2.4 million shares of our common stock for $50.0 million.
We returned $89.5 million to stockholders in the three months ended May 4, 2019, including our repurchases of common stock and $39.5 million of cash dividends.
Our net revenue for the three months ended May 4, 2019 increased by $57.8 million compared to net revenue for the three months ended May 5, 2018.
This increase was partially offset by decreased sales of our storage products and other products, which were down 12% and 2% respectively, compared to the three months ended May 5, 2018.
We recognized $5.7 million of total restructuring related charges in the three months ended May 4, 2019 as the Company continues to evaluate its existing operations to increase operational efficiency, decrease costs and increase profitability.
Interest expense increased by $21.0 million in the three months ended May 4, 2019, compared to the three months ended May 5, 2018.
For the three months ended May 5, 2018, net cash provided by investing activities of $216.7 million was primarily driven by net proceeds for sales and maturities of available-for-sale securities and time deposits of $274.1 million, offset by purchases of available-for-sale securities and time deposits of $38.5 million and purchases of property and equipment of $13.6 million.


part2.txt
If any of the possible adverse events described below actually occurs, we may be unable to conduct our business as currently planned and our financial condition and operating results could be harmed.
If we lose or experience a significant reduction in sales to any of these key customers, if any of these key customers experience a significant decline in market share, or if any of these customers experience significant financial difficulties, our revenue may decrease substantially and our results of operations and financial condition may be harmed.
Sales to our largest customers have fluctuated significantly from period to period and year to year and will likely continue to fluctuate in the future, primarily due to the timing and number of design wins with each customer, the continued diversification of our customer base as we expand into new markets, and natural disasters or other issues that may divert a customer’s operations.
The loss of any of our large customers or a significant reduction in sales we make to them would likely harm our financial condition and results of operations.
To the extent one or more of our large customers experience significant financial difficulty, bankruptcy or insolvency, this could have a material adverse effect on our sales and our ability to collect on receivables, which could harm our financial condition and results of operations.
In addition, if regulatory activity, such as enforcement of U.S. export control and sanctions laws, or the imposition of new tariffs, were to materially limit our ability to make sales to any of our significant customers, it could harm our results of operations, reputation and financial condition.
We rely on our customers to design our products into their systems, and the nature of the design process requires us to incur expenses prior to customer commitments to use our products or recognizing revenues associated with those expenses which may adversely affect our financial results.
Even if our customers’ system designers select our products, a substantial period of time will elapse before we generate revenues related to the significant expenses we have incurred.
We depend on a few customers for our SSD controllers and as such, the loss of any SSD controller customer or a significant reduction in sales we make to them may harm our financial condition and results of operations.
If we are unable to develop and introduce new and enhanced products that achieve market acceptance in a timely and cost-effective manner, our results of operations and competitive position will be harmed.
Even if the 5G infrastructure market develops in the manner or in the time periods we anticipate, if we do not have timely, competitively priced, market-accepted products available to meet our customers’ planned roll-out of 5G wireless communications systems, we may miss a significant opportunity and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.
If we lose or experience a significant reduction in sales to any of these key customers, if any of these key customers experience a significant decline in market share, or if any of these customers experience significant financial difficulties, our revenue may decrease substantially and our results of operations and financial condition may be harmed.” for additional risks related to export restrictions that may impact a customer in the 5G infrastructure market.
If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to borrow sufficient funds in the future to service our debt, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt (including the Senior Notes) or obtain additional financing.
We rely on independent foundries and subcontractors for the manufacture, assembly and testing of our integrated circuit products, and the failure of any of these third-party vendors to deliver products or otherwise perform as requested could damage our relationships with our customers, decrease our sales and limit our ability to grow our business.
As a result, if we needed to implement alternate manufacturing facilities, we could experience significant expenses and delays in product shipments, which could harm our results of operations.
In particular, as we and others in our industry transition to smaller geometries, our manufacturing partners may be supply constrained or may charge premiums for these advanced technologies, which may harm our business or results of operations.
See also, “We may experience difficulties in transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies or in achieving higher levels of design integration, which may result in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses.” Moreover, if any of our third-party foundry suppliers are unable to secure necessary raw materials from their suppliers, lose benefits under material agreements, experience power outages, lack sufficient capacity to manufacture our products, encounter financial difficulties or suffer any other disruption or reduction in efficiency, we may encounter supply delays or disruptions, which could harm our business or results of operations.
Poor yields from our foundries, or defects, integration issues or other performance problems with our products could cause us significant customer relations and business reputation problems, harm our financial performance and result in financial or other damages to our customers.
We may experience difficulties in transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies or in achieving higher levels of design integration, which may result in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses.
In the past, we have experienced some difficulties in shifting to smaller geometry process technologies or new manufacturing processes, which resulted in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses.
If we or any of our foundry subcontractors experience significant delays in this transition or fail to efficiently implement this transition, we could experience reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses, all of which could harm our relationships with our customers and our results of operations.
Our indemnification obligations and limitations of our director and officer liability insurance may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
Due to these coverage limitations, we may incur significant unreimbursed costs to satisfy our indemnification obligations, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
Although the Company takes steps to secure confidential information that is provided to third parties, such measures may not always be effective and data breaches, losses or other unauthorized access to or releases of confidential information may occur and could materially adversely affect the Company’s reputation, financial condition and operating results.
In addition, the market share of our customers could be adversely impacted on a long-term basis due to any continued supply chain disruption, which could negatively affect our results of operations.
In connection with the Cavium acquisition, we have been subject to regulatory conditions imposed by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS) pursuant to a Letter of Assurance (LA) where we have agreed to implement certain cyber security, physical security and training measures to protect national security, which may materially and adversely affect our operating results due to the increased cost of compliance with these measures.
Matters relating to or arising from our Audit Committee investigation, including regulatory proceedings, litigation matters and potential additional expenses, may adversely affect our business and results of operations.
The expenses incurred, the impact of our delay in fiscal 2016 and the beginning of fiscal 2017 in meeting our periodic reports on the confidence of investors, employees and customers, and the diversion of the attention of the management team that occurred adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations or cash flows.
As we carry only limited insurance coverage, any incurred liability resulting from uncovered claims could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.


