item1.txt
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of Marvell Technology Group Ltd., a Bermuda exempted company, and its wholly owned subsidiaries (the “Company”), as of and for the three and nine months ended November 2, 2019, have been prepared as required by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes should be read in conjunction with the Company's fiscal year 2019 audited financial statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 2, 2019.
In the opinion of management, the financial statements include all adjustments, including normal recurring adjustments and other adjustments, that are considered necessary for fair presentation of the Company’s financial position and results of operations.
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the operating results of Aquantia for the period from the date of acquisition to the Company’s third quarter ended November 2, 2019.
Subsequent to quarter end, on November 5, 2019, the Company acquired Avera Semiconductor (“Avera”), the Application Specific Integrated Circuit (“ASIC”) business of GlobalFoundries (“GlobalFoundries”) for $597.5 million in cash at closing.
During the three and nine months ended November 2, 2019, the Company incurred $3.8 million and $5.1 million, respectively, in acquisition related costs which were recorded in selling, general and administrative expense in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations.
For fiscal year 2019, nonrecurring pro forma adjustments directly attributable to the Aquantia acquisition included (i) the purchase accounting effect of inventories acquired of $18.3 million (ii) transaction costs of $12.7 million, and (iii) share-based compensation expense of $3.5 million.
The unaudited supplemental pro forma information presented below is for informational purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of our consolidated results of operations of the combined business had the Aquantia acquisition actually occurred at the beginning of fiscal year 2019 or of the results of our future operations of the combined business.
Additionally, the Company incurred $2.9 million of equity issuance costs, which were recorded in additional paid-in capital in the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheet.
The unaudited supplemental pro forma information presented below is for informational purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of our consolidated results of operations of the combined business had the Cavium acquisition actually occurred at the beginning of fiscal year 2018 or of the results of our future operations of the combined business.
The Credit Agreement requires that the Company and its subsidiaries comply, subject to certain exceptions, with covenants relating to customary matters such as creating or permitting certain liens, entering into sale and leaseback transactions, consolidating, merging, liquidating or dissolving, and entering into restrictive agreements.
In addition, upon the occurrence of a change of control repurchase event (which involves the occurrence of both a change of control and a ratings event involving the Senior Notes being rated below investment grade), the Company will be required to make an offer to repurchase the Senior Notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the repurchase date.
The indenture governing the Senior Notes also contains certain limited covenants restricting the Company’s ability to incur certain liens, enter into certain sale and leaseback transactions and merge or consolidate with any other entity or convey, transfer or lease all or substantially all of the Company’s properties or assets to another person, which, in each case, are subject to certain qualifications and exceptions.
During the three and nine months ended November 2, 2019, the Company recognized $20.6 million and $59.8 million of interest expense in its condensed consolidated statements of operations related to interest, amortization of debt issuance costs and accretion of discount associated with the outstanding Term Loan, Senior Notes, and Revolving Credit Facility, respectively.
During the three and nine months ended November 3, 2018, the Company recognized $20.9 million and $29.8 million of interest expense in its condensed consolidated statements of operations related to interest, amortization of debt issuance costs and accretion of discount associated with the outstanding Term Loan and Senior Notes, respectively.
Under the Company’s manufacturing relationships with its foundry partners, cancellation of outstanding purchase orders is allowed but requires payment of all costs and expenses incurred through the date of cancellation.
As of November 2, 2019, these foundries had incurred approximately $104.4 million of manufacturing costs and expenses relating to the Company’s outstanding purchase orders.
While the Company cannot predict with certainty the results of the Legal Matters in which it is currently involved, the Company does not expect that the ultimate costs to resolve these Legal Matters will individually or in the aggregate have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, however, there can be no assurance that the current or any future Legal Matters will be resolved in a manner that is not adverse to the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
In addition, the Company has contractual commitments to various customers, which could require the Company to incur costs to repair an epidemic defect with respect to its products outside of the normal warranty period if such defect were to occur.
In addition, this grouping includes a few legacy product lines in which the Company no longer invests, but will generate revenue for several years.
The Company’s quarterly tax provision, and estimate of its annual effective tax rate, is subject to variation due to several factors, including variability in accurately predicting our pre-tax income or loss and the mix of jurisdictions to which they relate, intercompany transactions, the applicability of special tax regimes, changes in how we do business, and acquisitions, as well as the integration of such acquisitions.
The Company's effective tax rate was adversely affected by pre-tax losses in certain non-U.S. tax jurisdictions that are subject to tax rates that are lower than 21%.
The net increase to the Company's gross unrecognized tax benefits of $3.2 million is primarily the result of certain unrecognized tax benefits recorded in the Company's accounting for the acquisition of Aquantia.
The Company operates under tax incentives in certain countries that may be extended if certain additional requirements are satisfied.
The Company plans to use such amounts to fund various activities outside of Bermuda, including working capital requirements, capital expenditures for expansion, funding of future acquisitions or other financing activities.
In addition, we have entered into an asset purchase agreement with NXP USA, Inc. dated May 29, 2019 pursuant to which we agreed to sell to NXP certain assets related to our wireless business for $1.76 billion in cash at closing, subject to working capital and other customary adjustments that will be determined at close.
Regulatory activity, such as enforcement of U.S. export control and sanctions laws, and the imposition of new tariffs, have in the past and may continue to materially limit our ability to make sales to our significant customers in China, which has in the past and may continue to harm our results of operations, reputation and financial condition.
Conversely, we may have insufficient inventory, which would result in lost revenue opportunities and potential loss of market share as well as damaged customer relationships.” In addition, customers in China that may be subject to trade bans or tariffs, may develop their own products or solutions instead of purchasing from us or they may acquire products or solutions from our competitors or other third-party sources that are not be subject to the U.S. tariffs and trade restrictions.
Changes in U.S. or foreign international tax, social, political, regulatory and economic conditions or in laws and policies governing foreign trade, manufacturing, development and investment in the territories or countries where we currently sell our products or conduct our business have in the past and could in the future adversely affect our business.
These changes in U.S. and foreign laws and policies have the potential to adversely impact the U.S. economy or certain sectors thereof, our industry and the global demand for our products, and as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Uncertainty surrounding the effect of Brexit, including changes to the legal and regulatory framework that apply to the United Kingdom and its relationship with the European Union, as well as new and proposed changes relating to Brexit affecting tax laws and trade policy in the U.S. and elsewhere may adversely impact our operations.
Changes in international tax laws such as the new tax in France impacting certain digital companies may adversely impact the business of the Company and our customers, or it may adversely impact international trade between the U.S. and France.
These transitions have required us to modify the manufacturing processes and to redesign some products, which has resulted in significant initial design and development costs.
If we or any of our foundry subcontractors experience significant delays in a future transition or fail to efficiently implement a transition, we could experience reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses, all of which could harm our relationships with our customers and our results of operations.
We rely on our customers to design our products into their systems, and the nature of the design process requires us to incur expenses prior to customer commitments to use our products or recognizing revenues associated with those expenses which may adversely affect our financial results.
We depend on a few customers for our SSD controllers and as such, the loss of any SSD controller customer or a significant reduction in sales we make to them may harm our financial condition and results of operations.
We rely on independent foundries and subcontractors for the manufacture, assembly and testing of our integrated circuit products, and the failure of any of these third-party vendors to deliver products or otherwise perform as requested could damage our relationships with our customers, decrease our sales and limit our ability to grow our business.
See also, “We may experience difficulties in transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies or in achieving higher levels of design integration, which may result in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses.” Moreover, if any of our third-party foundry suppliers are unable to secure necessary raw materials from their suppliers, lose benefits under material agreements, experience power outages, lack sufficient capacity to manufacture our products, encounter financial difficulties or suffer any other disruption or reduction in efficiency, we may encounter supply delays or disruptions, which could harm our business or results of operations.
In order to secure sufficient foundry capacity when demand is high and to mitigate the risks described in the foregoing paragraph, we may enter into various arrangements with suppliers that could be costly and harm our results of operations, such as nonrefundable deposits with or loans to foundries in exchange for capacity commitments, or contracts that commit us to purchase specified quantities of integrated circuits over extended periods.
Poor yields from our foundries, or defects, integration issues or other performance problems with our products could cause us significant customer relations and business reputation problems, harm our financial performance and result in financial or other damages to our customers.
Our indemnification obligations and limitations of our director and officer liability insurance may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
Due to these coverage limitations, we may incur significant unreimbursed costs to satisfy our indemnification obligations, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
The restrictions, among other things, restrict our ability and our subsidiaries’ ability to create or incur certain liens, incur or guarantee additional indebtedness, merge or consolidate with other companies, pay dividends, transfer or sell assets and make restricted payments.
If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to borrow sufficient funds in the future to service our debt, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt (including the Senior Notes) or obtain additional financing.
Although the Company takes steps to secure confidential information that is provided to third parties, such measures may not always be effective and data breaches, losses or other unauthorized access to or releases of confidential information may occur and could materially adversely affect the Company’s reputation, financial condition and operating results.


item2.txt
For the nine months ended November 2, 2019, we repurchased 3.0 million shares of our common stock for $64.3 million.
We returned $183.8 million to stockholders in the nine months ended November 2, 2019, including our repurchases of common stock and $119.5 million of cash dividends.
This was primarily due to decreased sales of our storage, networking, and other products by 29%, 17% and 2% respectively, compared to the three months ended November 3, 2018.
Cost of goods sold as a percentage of net revenue was lower for the three months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the three months ended November 3, 2018, which primarily resulted from the fiscal 2019 amortization of inventory fair value adjustment associated with the Cavium acquisition, partially offset by increased costs from amortization of acquired intangible assets in fiscal 2020.
Cost of goods sold as a percentage of net revenue was higher for the nine months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the nine months ended November 3, 2018, driven by increased costs from amortization of acquired intangible assets in fiscal 2020, partially offset by the fiscal 2019 amortization of inventory fair value adjustment associated with the Cavium acquisition.
Interest income decreased by 7.3 million in the nine months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the nine months ended November 3, 2018.
Interest expense decreased by $1.1 million in the three months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the three months ended November 3, 2018.
For the nine months ended November 2, 2019, net cash used in investing activities of $525.4 million was primarily driven by net cash paid to acquire Aquantia of $477.6 million, purchases of property and equipment of $62.9 million, and purchases of technology licenses of $1.9 million, partially offset by proceeds from sale of available-for-sale securities acquired from Aquantia of $18.8 million.


part2.txt
Regulatory activity, such as enforcement of U.S. export control and sanctions laws, and the imposition of new tariffs, have in the past and may continue to materially limit our ability to make sales to our significant customers in China, which has in the past and may continue to harm our results of operations, reputation and financial condition.
Conversely, we may have insufficient inventory, which would result in lost revenue opportunities and potential loss of market share as well as damaged customer relationships.” In addition, customers in China that may be subject to trade bans or tariffs, may develop their own products or solutions instead of purchasing from us or they may acquire products or solutions from our competitors or other third-party sources that are not be subject to the U.S. tariffs and trade restrictions.
Changes in U.S. or foreign international tax, social, political, regulatory and economic conditions or in laws and policies governing foreign trade, manufacturing, development and investment in the territories or countries where we currently sell our products or conduct our business have in the past and could in the future adversely affect our business.
These changes in U.S. and foreign laws and policies have the potential to adversely impact the U.S. economy or certain sectors thereof, our industry and the global demand for our products, and as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Uncertainty surrounding the effect of Brexit, including changes to the legal and regulatory framework that apply to the United Kingdom and its relationship with the European Union, as well as new and proposed changes relating to Brexit affecting tax laws and trade policy in the U.S. and elsewhere may adversely impact our operations.
If we lose or experience a significant reduction in sales to any of these key customers, if any of these key customers experience a significant decline in market share, or if any of these customers experience significant financial difficulties, our revenue may decrease substantially and our results of operations and financial condition may be harmed.
Sales to our largest customers have fluctuated significantly from period to period and year to year and will likely continue to fluctuate in the future, primarily due to the timing and number of design wins with each customer, the continued diversification of our customer base as we expand into new markets, and natural disasters or other issues that may divert a customer’s operations.
The loss of any of our large customers or a significant reduction in sales we make to them would likely harm our financial condition and results of operations.
To the extent one or more of our large customers experience significant financial difficulty, bankruptcy or insolvency, this could have a material adverse effect on our sales and our ability to collect on receivables, which could harm our financial condition and results of operations.
Even if the 5G infrastructure market develops in the manner or in the time periods we anticipate, if we do not have timely, competitively priced, market-accepted products available to meet our customers’ planned roll-out of 5G wireless communications systems, we may miss a significant opportunity and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.
If we lose or experience a significant reduction in sales to any of these key customers, if any of these key customers experience a significant decline in market share, or if any of these customers experience significant financial difficulties, our revenue may decrease substantially and our results of operations and financial condition may be harmed.” for additional risks related to export restrictions that may impact a customer in the 5G infrastructure market.
These transitions have required us to modify the manufacturing processes and to redesign some products, which has resulted in significant initial design and development costs.
If we or any of our foundry subcontractors experience significant delays in a future transition or fail to efficiently implement a transition, we could experience reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses, all of which could harm our relationships with our customers and our results of operations.
We rely on our customers to design our products into their systems, and the nature of the design process requires us to incur expenses prior to customer commitments to use our products or recognizing revenues associated with those expenses which may adversely affect our financial results.
If a customer’s system designer initially chooses a competitor’s product, it becomes significantly more difficult for us to sell our products for use in that system because changing suppliers can involve significant cost, time, effort and risk for our customers.
Even if our customers’ system designers select our products, a substantial period of time will elapse before we generate revenues related to the significant expenses we have incurred.
We depend on a few customers for our SSD controllers and as such, the loss of any SSD controller customer or a significant reduction in sales we make to them may harm our financial condition and results of operations.
If we are unable to develop and introduce new and enhanced products that achieve market acceptance in a timely and cost-effective manner, our results of operations and competitive position will be harmed.
We rely on independent foundries and subcontractors for the manufacture, assembly and testing of our integrated circuit products, and the failure of any of these third-party vendors to deliver products or otherwise perform as requested could damage our relationships with our customers, decrease our sales and limit our ability to grow our business.
As a result, if we needed to implement alternate manufacturing facilities, we could experience significant expenses and delays in product shipments, which could harm our results of operations.
See also, “We may experience difficulties in transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies or in achieving higher levels of design integration, which may result in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses.” Moreover, if any of our third-party foundry suppliers are unable to secure necessary raw materials from their suppliers, lose benefits under material agreements, experience power outages, lack sufficient capacity to manufacture our products, encounter financial difficulties or suffer any other disruption or reduction in efficiency, we may encounter supply delays or disruptions, which could harm our business or results of operations.
Poor yields from our foundries, or defects, integration issues or other performance problems with our products could cause us significant customer relations and business reputation problems, harm our financial performance and result in financial or other damages to our customers.
Our indemnification obligations and limitations of our director and officer liability insurance may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
Due to these coverage limitations, we may incur significant unreimbursed costs to satisfy our indemnification obligations, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
The competition for qualified technical personnel with significant experience in the design, development, manufacturing, marketing and sales of integrated circuits is intense, both in the Silicon Valley where our U.S. operations are based and in global markets in which we operate.
If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to borrow sufficient funds in the future to service our debt, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt (including the Senior Notes) or obtain additional financing.
Although the Company takes steps to secure confidential information that is provided to third parties, such measures may not always be effective and data breaches, losses or other unauthorized access to or releases of confidential information may occur and could materially adversely affect the Company’s reputation, financial condition and operating results.
In addition, the market share of our customers could be adversely impacted on a long-term basis due to any continued supply chain disruption, which could negatively affect our results of operations.


