fls.txt



item1.txt
The FASB issued subsequent amendments to the initial guidance in August 2015, March 2016, April 2016, May 2016 and December 2016 within ASU 2015–14, ASU 2016–08, ASU 2016–10, ASU 2016–12 and ASU 2016–20, respectively; all of which in combination with ASU 2014-09 were codified as Accounting Standard Codification Topic 606 (“ASC 606”).
The amendments are part of the SEC’s efforts to improve disclosure effectiveness and were focused on eliminating disclosure requirements that have become redundant, duplicative, overlapping, outdated, or superseded.
In addition to the shares repurchased under the Board-authorized repurchase program shown above, during the three and six months ended December 23, 2018, the Company acquired 9 thousand shares at a total cost of $1.4 million and 23 thousand shares at a total cost of $3.8 million, respectively, which the Company withheld through net settlements to cover minimum tax withholding obligations upon the vesting of restricted stock unit awards granted under the Company’s equity compensation plans.
Upon adoption, the Company recorded a cumulative effect adjustment of $139.4 million, net of tax adjustment of $21.0 million, which increased the June 25, 2018 opening retained earnings balance on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet, primarily as a result of changes in the timing of recognition of system sales.
We Depend on Creating New Products and Processes and Enhancing Existing Products and Processes for Our Success.
The Company’s options, RSU, and market-based PRSU awards typically vest over a period of three years.
The 2041 Notes may be redeemed on or after May 21, 2021 at a price equal to outstanding principal plus accrued and unpaid interest if the last reported sales price of common shares has been equal to or more than 150% of the then applicable conversion price for at least 20 trading days during the 30 consecutive trading days prior to the redemption notice date.
Results for reporting periods beginning on or after June 25, 2018 are presented under ASC 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with the historic accounting under ASC 605.
Recognize revenue when or as the Company satisfies a performance obligation.
The Company adopted ASC 606 on the first day of the current fiscal year, June 25, 2018, under the modified retrospective approach, applying the amendments to prospective reporting periods.
The Company expects that the Company’s 2019 annual report on Form 10-K will omit a number of disclosures previously required in Part II.
Additionally, we are exposed to short-term foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on non-U.S. dollar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities (other than those currency exposures previously discussed), and currently we do not enter into foreign currency hedge contracts against these exposures.
As a result, we may need to enter into new financing arrangements to obtain the necessary funds.
Moreover, by hedging these foreign currency denominated revenues, expenses, monetary assets, and liabilities, we may miss favorable currency trends that would have been advantageous to us but for the hedges.
The amendments are part of the SEC’s efforts to improve disclosure effectiveness and were focused on eliminating disclosure requirements that have become redundant, duplicative, overlapping, outdated, or superseded.
The Company recognized $36.3 million and $40.8 million in intangible asset amortization expense during the three months ended December 23, 2018 and December 24, 2017.


item2.txt
If such indicators are present, we determine whether the sum of the estimated undiscounted cash flows attributable to the assets is less than their carrying value.
In addition, we make certain judgments about allocating shared assets to the estimated balance sheets of our reporting units.
Gross margin as a percentage of revenue remained flat in the December 2018 quarter compared to the September 2018 quarter primarily due to higher factory utilization, offset by changes in customer and product mix.
Despite recent semiconductor capital investment volatility, over the longer term, we believe that technology inflections in our industry, including 3D device scaling, multiple patterning, process flow, and advanced packaging chip integration will lead to an increase in our served addressable market for our products and services in deposition, etch, and clean.
Assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value.


item3.txt



item4.txt
ITEM 6.Exhibits


part2.txt
To maintain high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with all evolving standards.
Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the determination as to whether a loss is reasonably estimable.
Approximately 1.7 million shares were received at final settlement, which resulted in a weighted-average share price of approximately $148.72 for the transaction period.
Outsource providers and component suppliers have played and will continue to play a key role in our manufacturing operations, field installation and support, and many of our transactional and administrative functions, such as information technology, facilities management, and certain elements of our finance organization.
Additionally, we have funding available to us under our $1.25 billion commercial paper program and our $1.25 billion revolving credit facility, which serves as a backstop to our commercial paper program.
We could be exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to our derivative instruments.
Especially during transitional periods, resource allocation decisions can have a significant impact on our future performance, particularly if we have not accurately anticipated industry changes.


