fls.txt



item1.txt
Similarly, our customers may partner with, or follow the lead of, educational or research institutions that establish processes for accomplishing various tasks or manufacturing steps.
Market for the Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities, as well as other minor changes.
On June 7, 2016, the Company completed a public offering of $800 million aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes due June 15, 2021 (the “2021 Notes”).
The Company concluded that these interest rate contracts meet the criteria necessary to qualify for the short-cut method of hedge accounting, and as such an assumption is made that the change in the fair value of the hedged debt, due to changes in the benchmark rate, exactly offsets the change in the fair value of the interest rate swap.
Refer to Note 8 - Financial Instruments for additional information regarding these interest rate contracts.
As of March 31, 2019, the Company had a net loss of $0.4 million accumulated in other comprehensive income, net of tax, related to foreign exchange cash flow hedges which it expects to reclassify from other comprehensive income into earnings over the next 12 months.
As of March 31, 2019, the potential effect of rights of offset associated with the above foreign exchange and interest rate contracts would be an offset to assets and liabilities by $1.3 million, resulting in a net derivative asset of $1.2 million and net derivative liability of $16.9 million.
When derivative instruments are designated and qualify as effective cash flow hedges, the Company recognizes effective changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) until the hedged exposure is realized.
The Company’s options, RSU, and market-based PRSU awards typically vest over a period of three years.
We believe these are our primary exposures to currency rate fluctuation.
These amounts are recorded with other restricted cash and investments in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of March 31, 2019.
The Company does not believe, based on historical experience and information currently available, that it is probable that any amounts will be required to be paid.
Final settlement of the January 2019 ASR is anticipated to occur no later than June 5, 2019.
Recognize revenue when or as the Company satisfies a performance obligation.
As of June 24, 2018, the potential effect of rights of offset associated with the above foreign exchange contracts would be an offset to both assets and liabilities by $5.6 million, resulting in a net derivative asset of $2.1 million and a net derivative liability of $34.4 million.
However, the Company has elected to present the derivative assets and derivative liabilities on a gross basis on its balance sheet.


item2.txt
We took an initial delivery of approximately 5.8 million shares, which represented 75% of the prepayment amount divided by our closing stock price on August 14, 2018.
services are designed to help our customers build smaller, faster, and better performing devices that are used in a variety of electronic products, including mobile phones, personal computers, servers, wearables, automotive devices, storage devices, and networking equipment.
At the same time, there are growing technical challenges with traditional scaling.
The process of evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill is subjective and requires significant judgment at many points during the analysis.
Despite recent semiconductor capital investment volatility, over the longer term, we believe that technology inflections in our industry, including 3D device scaling, multiple patterning, process flow, and advanced packaging chip integration will lead to an increase in our served addressable market for our products and services in deposition, etch, and clean.


item3.txt



item4.txt
As required by Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(b), as of March 31, 2019, we carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rule 13a-15(e).


part2.txt
From time to time, in the normal course of business, we indemnify third parties with whom we enter into contractual relationships, including customers and suppliers, with respect to certain matters.
Historically, we have witnessed significant volatility in the price of our Common Stock due in part to the price of and markets for semiconductors.
This is an ongoing challenge due to intense competition for top talent, fluctuations in industry or business economic conditions, as well as increasing geographic expansion that may require cycles of hiring activity and workforce reductions.
•dilutive impacts of our Convertible Notes.
In addition, our bylaws and other indemnity obligations provide that we will indemnify officers and members of our Board of Directors against losses that they may incur in legal proceedings resulting from their service to us.
The majority of our sales and expenses are denominated in U.S. dollars.
Our revolving credit facility also includes an option to increase the amount up to an additional $600.0 million, for a potential total commitment of $1.85 billion.


