fls.txt



item1.txt
Outsource providers and component suppliers have played and will continue to play a key role in our product development, manufacturing operations, field installation and support, and many of our transactional and administrative functions, such as information technology, facilities management, and certain elements of our finance organization.
On June 4, 2019, the Company entered into four separate accelerated share repurchase agreements (collectively, the "June 2019 ASR") with two financial institutions to repurchase a total of $750 million of Common Stock.
In addition, the Company enters into interest rate swap arrangements to manage interest rate risk.
The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement contains affirmative covenants, negative covenants, financial covenants and events of default.
To ensure diversification and minimize concentration, the Company’s policy limits the amount of credit exposure with any one financial institution or commercial issuer.
The amendments of ASU 2017-12 were effective in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020, and did not have a material impact on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
These criteria include identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item, the nature of the risk being hedged and how the hedging instrument’s effectiveness in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged item’s fair value or cash flows will be measured.
We expect to continue to enter into hedging transactions, for the purposes outlined, for the foreseeable future.
The principal value of the 2041 Note conversions in the three months ended September 29, 2019, was approximately $28.1 million.
The Company continues to evaluate the impact of ASU 2016-13 and will consider the amendments of ASU 2019-04 as part of that process.
We periodically evaluate our overall compensation and benefit programs and make adjustments, as appropriate, to maintain or enhance their competitiveness.
The Company’s options, RSU, and market-based PRSU awards typically vest over a period of three years.
Refer to Note 12 - Long-Term Debt and Other Borrowings for additional information regarding the fair value of the Company’s senior notes and convertible senior notes.
To ensure diversification and minimize concentration, the Company’s policy limits the amount of credit exposure with any one financial institution or commercial issuer.
These amounts are recorded with other restricted cash and investments in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 29, 2019.
The Company concluded that these interest rate contracts meet the criteria necessary to qualify for the short-cut method of hedge accounting, and as such an assumption is made that the change in the fair value of the hedged debt, due to changes in the benchmark rate, exactly offsets the change in the fair value of the interest rate swap.


item2.txt
Our products and services are designed to help our customers build smaller, faster, and better performing devices that are used in a variety of electronic products, including mobile phones, personal computers, servers, wearables, automotive vehicles, and data storage devices.
In addition, our customer contracts contain provisions for installation and training services which have been deemed immaterial in the context of the contract.
Demand from the Cloud, Internet of Things, and other markets is driving the need for increasingly powerful and cost-efficient semiconductors.
Along with meeting technical requirements, wafer processing equipment must deliver high productivity and be cost-effective.
These trends are driving significant inflections in semiconductor manufacturing, such as the increasing importance of vertical 3D scaling strategies as well as multiple patterning to enable shrinks.


item3.txt



item4.txt
As required by Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(b), as of September 29, 2019, we carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rule 13a-15(e).


part2.txt
This repurchase program has no termination date and may be suspended or discontinued at any time.
This repurchase program has no termination date and may be suspended or discontinued at any time.
These locations are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, such as natural or man-made disasters, terrorist activities, disruptions of our information technology resources, utility interruptions, or other events beyond our control.
Conversion of our Convertible Notes may cause dilution to our stockholders and to our earnings per share.
Similarly, our customers may partner with, or follow the lead of, educational or research institutions that establish processes for accomplishing various tasks or manufacturing steps.
We accrue for a liability when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.
•dilutive impacts of our Convertible Notes.


