fls.txt



item1.txt
The 2041 Notes also have a contingent interest payment provision that may require the Company to pay additional interest, up to 0.60% per year, based on certain thresholds, beginning with the semi-annual interest payment on May 15, 2021, and upon the occurrence of certain events, as outlined in the indenture governing the 2041 Notes.
In addition, the Company enters into interest rate swap arrangements to manage interest rate risk.
The estimated fair values of capital lease obligations approximate their carrying value as the substantial majority of these obligations have interest rates that adjust to market rates on a periodic basis.
In October 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-16, “Income Tax – Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other than Inventory.” This standard update improves the accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
The stock price performance or market price performance is measured using the closing price for the 50-trading days prior to the dates the performance period begins and ends.
Management assesses the fair value of investments in debt securities that are not actively traded through consideration of interest rates and their impact on the present value of the cash flows to be received from the investments.
The Company defines fair value as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
These instruments are designated as cash flow hedges at inception and are settled in conjunction with the issuance of debt.
In November 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU 2015-17, “Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes.” This ASU amends existing guidance to require that deferred income tax assets and liabilities be classified as non-current in a classified balance sheet, and eliminates the prior guidance which required an entity to separate deferred tax assets and liabilities into a current amount and a non-current amount in a classified balance sheet.
Similarly, our customers may partner with, or follow the lead of, educational or research institutions that establish processes for accomplishing various tasks or manufacturing steps.
•our ability to secure and retain qualified people, and effectively manage people, in all necessary locations for the successful operation of our business.
At inception and at each quarter-end, hedges are tested prospectively and retrospectively for effectiveness using regression analysis.
Typically, each offering period lasts up to twelve months and comprises two interim purchase dates.
This tax is effective for the Company after the end of the current fiscal year.
The Company is required to adopt the standard in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 using a modified-retrospective approach through a cumulative-effect adjustment directly to retained earnings.
We expect to continue to enter into hedging transactions, for the purposes outlined, for the foreseeable future.


item2.txt
If the sum is less, we recognize an impairment loss based on the excess of the carrying amount of the assets over their respective fair values.
Final settlement for the remaining transactions will be completed no later than May 24, 2018.
On April 19, 2017, we entered into two separate accelerated share repurchase agreements (collectively, the “April 2017 ASR”) with two financial institutions to repurchase a total of $500 million of Common Stock.
Our deferred revenue balance at March 25, 2018 remained steady to the balance as of December 24, 2017, at $1.1 billion, as a result of timing of shipments and revenue recognition.
Assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


part2.txt
In the face of uncertainty on which technology solutions will become successful, we will need to focus our efforts on developing the technology changes that are ultimately successful in supporting our customer requirements.
Our intent to continue to pay quarterly dividends and to repurchase our shares is subject to capital availability and, in the case of dividends, periodic determinations by our Board of Directors that cash dividends are in the best interest of our stockholders and are in compliance with all laws and agreements applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends by us.
Moreover, because we determine the jurisdictions in which to file patents at the time of filing, we may not have adequate protection in the future based on such previous decisions.
These actions could adversely impact our market share and financial results.
As part of our strategy to protect our technology, we currently hold a number of U.S. and foreign patents and pending patent applications, and we keep certain information, processes, and techniques as trade secrets.
As a result, we may need to enter into new financing arrangements to obtain the necessary funds.
Outsource providers and component suppliers have played and will continue to play a key role in our manufacturing operations, field installation and support, and many of our transactional and administrative functions, such as information technology, facilities management, and certain elements of our finance organization.


