Additionally, related amounts previously recorded in other comprehensive income would be reclassified to income immediately.
If hedges are not highly effective or if the Company does not believe that the underlying hedged forecasted transactions will occur, the Company may not be able to account for its derivative instruments as cash flow hedges.
The Company defines fair value as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
•Our failure to meet, or violation of, regulatory or other legal obligations, such as the timely publication or filing of financial statements, tax forms and other required communications.
The estimated fair value of cash, accounts receivable, and accounts payable approximates their carrying value due to the short period of time to their maturities.
Semiconductor manufacturers must make a substantial investment to qualify and integrate wafer processing equipment into a semiconductor production line.
In August 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-15, “Statement of Cash Flows – Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments.” The amendment provides and clarifies guidance on the classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments in the statement of cash flows to eliminate diversity in practice.
The Company separately accounts for the liability and equity components of the Convertible Notes.
•the cash paid to satisfy the statutory income tax withholding obligations shall be classified as a financing activity in the statement of cash flows.
In January 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-2, “Leases.” The amendment requires an entity to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on its balance sheet and disclose key information about leasing arrangements.This repurchase program has no termination date and may be suspended or discontinued at any time.
ITEM 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
During the six months ended December 24, 2017, approximately $346.3 million principle value of Convertible Notes were converted and in the subsequent period through January 26, 2018, we received notice of conversion of an additional $228 million principal value of Convertible Notes, which will settle in the quarter ending March 25, 2018.We have $3.3 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes, convertible notes, and commercial paper instruments outstanding.
We periodically evaluate our overall compensation and benefit programs and make adjustments, as appropriate, to maintain or enhance their competitiveness.
In the past, following volatile periods in the price of their stock, many companies became the object of securities class action litigation.
Rapid technological changes in semiconductor manufacturing processes subject us to increased pressure to develop technological advances that enable those processes.