fls.txt



item1.txt
The estimated fair value of cash, accounts receivable, and accounts payable approximates their carrying value due to the short period of time to their maturities.
The Company has the ability, if necessary, to liquidate its investments in order to meet the Company’s liquidity needs in the next 12 months.
The aggregate guarantee made by the Company under the Operating Leases is generally no more than approximately $220.4 million; however, under certain default circumstances, the guarantee with regard to an Operating Lease may be 100% of the lessor’s aggregate investment in the applicable property, which in no case will exceed $250.0 million, in the aggregate.
•our ability to secure and retain qualified people, and effectively manage people, in all necessary locations for the successful operation of our business.
In addition, we have entered, and in the future may enter, into derivative instrument arrangements to hedge against the variability of cash flows due to changes in the benchmark interest rate of fixed rate debt.
The adoption of this standard resulted in a $2.2 million increase to retained earnings, with a corresponding $2.2 million decrease to other comprehensive income.
We believe that once a semiconductor manufacturer selects a particular supplier’s processing equipment, the manufacturer generally relies upon that equipment for that specific production line application for an extended period of time, especially for customers that are more focused on tool reuse.
The initial debt components of the 2041 Notes were valued based on the present value of the future cash flows using the Company’s borrowing rate at the date of the issuance or assumption for similar debt instruments without the conversion feature, which equals the effective interest rate on the liability component disclosed in the table below, respectively.
We have $2.4 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes, convertible notes, and commercial paper instruments outstanding.
The Company seeks to limit its liability for such indemnity to an amount not to exceed the sales price of the products or services subject to its indemnification obligations.
We have $2.4 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes, convertible notes, and commercial paper instruments outstanding.
Therefore, the derivative is considered to be effective at achieving offsetting changes in the fair value of the hedged liability, and no ineffectiveness is recognized.
The Company is not required to pledge, nor is the Company entitled to receive, cash collateral for these derivative transactions.
The Company’s adoption of this standard resulted in a $0.4 million decrease to retained earnings and a corresponding $0.4 million increase to other assets on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The industry environment has moved toward being more characterized by variability across segments and customers accentuated by consolidation within the industry.
We expect to continue to enter into hedging transactions, for the purposes outlined, for the foreseeable future.


item2.txt
Shipments to customers in Japan are classified as inventory at cost until the time of acceptance.
If the sum is less, we recognize an impairment loss based on the excess of the carrying amount of the assets over their respective fair values.
The total number of shares to be received under the August 2018 ASR will be based upon the average daily volume weighted average price of our Common Stock during the repurchase period, less an agreed upon discount.
The fair value of the asset then becomes the asset’s new carrying value, which we depreciate over the remaining estimated useful life of the asset.


item3.txt



item4.txt
None.


part2.txt
In the face of uncertainty on which technology solutions will become successful, we will need to focus our efforts on developing the technology changes that are ultimately successful in supporting our customer requirements.
In the face of uncertainty on which technology solutions will become successful, we will need to focus our efforts on developing the technology changes that are ultimately successful in supporting our customer requirements.
In addition, law enforcement authorities may seek criminal charges relating to intellectual property or other issues.
Moreover, although we have insurance to protect us from certain claims and cover certain losses to our property, such insurance may not cover us for the full amount of any losses, or at all, and may be subject to substantial exclusions and deductibles.
A reduction or suspension in our dividend payments or share repurchases could have a negative effect on the price of our Common Stock.
This is an ongoing challenge due to intense competition for top talent, fluctuations in industry or business economic conditions, as well as increasing geographic expansion that may require cycles of hiring activity and workforce reductions.
Moreover, because we determine the jurisdictions in which to file patents at the time of filing, we may not have adequate protection in the future based on such previous decisions.


