fls.txt



item1.txt
The unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements of Juniper Networks, Inc. (the “Company” or “Juniper”) have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
The results of operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the year ending December 31, 2019, or any future period.
The adoption of the standard had no impact on the Company's Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows or debt-covenant compliance under its current agreements.
Operating leases are included in operating lease ROU assets, other accrued liabilities, and operating lease liabilities on the Company's Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Operating lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized on the commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
The Company's lease terms are the noncancelable period including any rent-free periods provided by the lessor and include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that it will exercise that option.
At lease inception, and in subsequent periods as necessary, the Company estimates the lease term based on its assessment of extension and termination options that are reasonably certain to be exercised.
The Company does not separate non-lease components from lease components for all underlying classes of assets.
In addition, the Company does not recognize ROU assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases, which have a lease term of twelve months or less and do not include an option to purchase the underlying asset that the Company is reasonably certain to exercise.
The purchase consideration consisted of cash of $354.5 million and $4.7 million in share-based awards attributable to services prior to the acquisition.
The goodwill recognized in connection with the acquisition is primarily attributable to anticipated synergies from future growth and will not be deductible for income tax purposes.
Acquisition-related costs were not material during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and were expensed in the period incurred within general and administrative expense in the Company's Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
The Company's Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements include the operating results of this business combination from the date of acquisition.
Pro forma results of operations for this acquisition have not been presented, as the financial impact to the Company's consolidated results of operations is not material.
For available-for-sale debt securities that have unrealized losses, the Company assesses impairment by evaluating various factors, including whether (i) it has the intention to sell any of these investments and (ii) whether it is more likely than not that it will be required to sell any of these investments before recovery of the entire amortized cost basis.
The gross unrealized losses related to these investments were primarily due to changes in market interest rates.


item2.txt
The following discussion is based upon our unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part 1, Item I, of this Report, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or U.S. GAAP.
Each of these decisions has some impact on the financial results for any given period.
Further, our intent is to expand our software business by introducing new software solutions to our product portfolio that simplify the operation of networks, and allow our customers across our key verticals flexibility in consumption and deployment.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Investments in our securities involve significant risks.
For example, we, and many companies in our industry, experience adverse seasonal fluctuations in customer spending, particularly in the first quarter.
We expect our gross margins and operating margins to vary over time.
Further, while we will continue to remain diligent in our long-term financial objective to increase revenue and operating margins and manage our operating expenses as a percentage of revenue, we expect that our margins will vary with our ability to achieve these goals.
We can provide no assurance that we will be able to achieve all or any of the goals of these plans or meet our announced expectations, in whole or in part, or that our plans will have the intended effect of improving our margins on the expected timeline, or at all.
A limited number of our customers comprise a material portion of our revenues and any changes in the way they purchase products and services from us could affect our business.
A material portion of our net revenues, across each customer vertical, depends on sales to a limited number of customers and distribution partners.
In the security market, we face intense competition from Cisco and Palo Alto Networks, Inc., as well as companies such as Check Point Software Technologies, Ltd., and Fortinet, Inc. Further, a number of other small public and private companies have products or have announced plans for new products to address the same challenges and markets that our products address.
As a result, the sales cycle may be lengthy.
Customers with large networks usually expand their networks in large increments on a periodic basis.
The introduction of new software products and services is part of our intended strategy to expand our software business, and certain software revenues may be recognized periodically over the term of the relevant use period or subscription period.


