fls.txt



item1.txt
Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by U.S. GAAP for complete financial statements.
The results of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the year ending December 31, 2018, or any future period.
Except for the change in certain policies upon adoption of the accounting standards described below, there have been no material changes to the Company's significant accounting policies, compared to the accounting policies described in Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies, in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of the Form 10-K. Revenue is recognized when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services by following a five-step process, (1) identify the contract with a customer, (2) identify the performance obligations in the contract, (3) determine the transaction price, (4) allocate the transaction price, and (5) recognize revenue when or as the Company satisfies a performance obligation, as further described below.
Product performance obligations include hardware and software licenses and service performance obligations include maintenance, software post-contract support, training, and professional services.
The transaction price for the Company’s contracts with its customers consists of both fixed and variable consideration provided it is probable that a significant reversal of revenue will not occur when the uncertainty related to variable consideration is resolved.
The Company’s contracts with customers typically do not include significant financing components as the period between the transfer of performance obligations and timing of payment are generally within one year.
Revenue for hardware and certain software licenses, are recognized at a point in time, which is generally upon shipment or delivery.
Certain software licenses combined with post-contract support are recognized over time on a ratable basis over the term of the license.
Revenue for maintenance and software post-contract support is recognized over time on a ratable basis over the contract term.
Revenue from training and professional services is recognized over time as services are completed or ratably over the contractual period of generally one year or less.
For available-for-sale debt securities that have unrealized losses, the Company assesses impairment by evaluating various factors, including whether (i) it has the intention to sell any of these investments and (ii) whether it is more likely than not that it will be required to sell any of these investments before recovery of the entire amortized cost basis.
The gross unrealized losses related to these investments were primarily due to changes in market interest rates.
The Company anticipates that it will recover the entire amortized cost basis of such available-for-sale debt securities and has determined that no other-than-temporary impairments associated with credit losses were required to be recognized during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017.
During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, there were no material gross realized gains or losses from available-for-sale debt securities.
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, there were no material unrealized gains or losses recognized for equity investments.


item2.txt
Each of these decisions has some impact on the financial results for any given period.
To aid in understanding our operating results for the periods covered by this Report, we have provided an executive overview, which includes a summary of our business and market environment along with a financial results and key performance metrics overview.
Further, our intent is to lead in the area of software solutions that simplify the operation of networks, and to allow our customers across our key verticals to deliver further value through their networks.
We believe the network needs for our customers in our Service Provider, Cloud, and Enterprise verticals are converging, as these customers recognize the need for high performance networks and leveraging the cloud for improved agility and greater levels of operating efficiency.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
For example, we, and many companies in our industry, experience adverse seasonal fluctuations in customer spending, particularly in the first quarter.
In addition, while we may have backlog orders for products that have not shipped, we believe that our backlog may not be a reliable indicator of future operating results for a number of reasons, including project delays, changes in project scope and the fact that our customers may cancel purchase orders or change delivery schedules without significant penalty.
For example, in fiscal year 2017, our margins decreased as compared to fiscal year 2016, primarily due to lower product net revenues and product mix, resulting from the year-over-year decline in routing revenues, our customers' architectural shifts, and higher costs of certain memory components.
In fiscal year 2015, our margins increased compared to fiscal year 2014, as a result of higher restructuring and other charges recorded in 2014 but not in 2015, in connection with the restructuring plan we initiated in the first quarter of 2014.
We can provide no assurance that we will be able to achieve all or any of the goals of these plans or meet our announced expectations, in whole or in part, or that our plans will have the intended effect of improving our margins on the expected timeline, or at all.
A limited number of our customers comprise a material portion of our revenues and any changes in the way they purchase products and services from us could affect our business.
A material portion of our net revenues, across each customer vertical, depends on sales to a limited number of customers and distribution partners.
As a result of changes in the economy, capital spending or the building of network capacity in excess of demand, all of which have in the past particularly affected telecommunications service providers, spending on IP infrastructure can vary, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.
For example, in recent quarters, our switching and routing results were adversely affected by spending delays from our largest Cloud customers, who we believe are in the process of implementing a networking architectural shift.
The routing and switching markets have historically been dominated by Cisco, with competition coming from other companies such as Nokia Corporation (following its acquisition of Alcatel-Lucent), Arista, HPE, and Huawei.
In the security market, we face intense competition from Cisco and Palo Alto Networks, as well as companies such as Check Point, F5 Networks, and Fortinet.


