fls.txt



item1.txt
References to “Xerox Holdings” refer to Xerox Holdings Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries while references to “Xerox” refer to Xerox Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.
References herein to “we,” “us,” “our,” the “Company” refer collectively to both Xerox Holdings and Xerox unless the context suggests otherwise.
You should read these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Xerox's 2018 Annual Report.
Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements reflect the activity for both Xerox Holdings and Xerox for all periods presented, unless otherwise noted.
Subsequent to the Reorganization, Xerox Holdings contributed the Xerox Series B Preferred Stock it held to Xerox in exchange for additional capital and Xerox subsequently extinguished the Series B Preferred Stock.
The contribution and extinguishment were recorded at carrying value.
The transfer of employees associated with the HCL arrangement in certain countries is subject to compliance with works council and other employment regulatory requirements in those countries, which may delay the transfer as well as the expected savings from the arrangement.
Prior year amounts were also revised as follows to conform to the 2019 presentation.
The ASUs listed below apply to both registrants.
The update impacts financial assets including net investment in leases that are not accounted for at fair value through Net Income.
This update is effective for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2020.
We continue to evaluate the impact of the adoption of ASU 2016-13, which is expected to primarily impact the estimation of our Allowance for doubtful accounts for Accounts Receivables and Finance Receivables.


item2.txt
In March 2019, Xerox Corporation (“Xerox”) announced plans to create a new public holding company, Xerox Holdings Corporation (“Xerox Holdings”), by implementing a holding company reorganization (the “Reorganization”).
We refer to this analysis as "constant currency", “currency impact” or “the impact from currency.” This impact is calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period's currency translation rate.
This impact is calculated for all countries where the functional currency is the local country currency.
Currency impact can be determined as the difference between actual growth rates and constant currency growth rates.
These benefits were partially offset by higher Restructuring and related costs.
Adjusted1 net income attributable to Xerox Holdings for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 increased $87 million as compared to the prior year period.
Cash flows provided by operating activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 were $895 million, as compared to $725 million in the prior year period primarily reflecting lower working capital2, increased dividends from equity investments, and lower cash payments for Transaction and related costs, net.


item4.txt
The transition of these functions to HCL is expected to take up to 18 months.
In response to this arrangement, the Company has and will continue to align and streamline the design and operation of its financial control environment.
2.0 Certificate of Merger dated July 31, 2019 between Xerox Merger Sub, Inc. and Xerox Corporation.
See SEC File Number 001-39013.
See SEC File Number 001-39013.


part2.txt
Reference is made to the Risk Factors set forth in Part I, Item 1A of Xerox Corporation's 2018 Annual Report.
This program replaced the $1.0 billion of authority remaining under Xerox Corporation’s previously authorized $2.0 billion share repurchase program.
2.0 Certificate of Merger dated July 31, 2019 between Xerox Merger Sub, Inc. and Xerox Corporation.
See SEC File Number 001-39013.
See SEC File Number 001-39013.


