References herein to “we,” “us,” “our,” the “company” and “Xerox” refer to Xerox Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries unless the context suggests otherwise.
You should read these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our 2018 Annual Report.
The purpose of the Reorganization is to provide the Company with strategic, operational and financial flexibility.
This realignment included the combination and consolidation of certain sales units to better service customers consistently across the company.
Prior year amounts were also revised as follows to conform to the 2019 presentation.
This update requires measurement and recognition of expected credit losses for financial assets.
The update impacts financial assets and net investment in leases that are not accounted for at fair value through Net Income.
This update is effective for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2020.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-15, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other - Internal Use Software (Subtopic 350-40), Customer's Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That is a Service Contract.
This update aligns the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software (and hosting arrangements that include an internal-use software license).This impact is calculated for all countries where the functional currency is the local country currency.
Total revenue of $2.21 billion for first quarter 2019 declined 9.4% from first quarter 2018, including a 2.4-percentage point unfavorable impact from currency.
These benefits were partially offset by higher Restructuring and related costs.
million and acquisitions of $4 million.
CC - See "Currency Impact" section for a description of Constant Currency.The transition of these functions to HCL is expected to take up to 18 months.
Not applicable.None.
Not applicable.