fls.txt



item1.txt
You should read these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our 2017 Annual Report.
In third quarter 2018, we determined that the Pension Benefit Obligation (PBO) for our UK funded pension plan at December 31, 2017 was overstated by approximately GBP 40 million (approximately USD $53 or $43 after-tax).
The error was the result of the plan administrator under reporting benefit payments.
We assessed the impact of this error and concluded that it was not material to the financial statements previously issued for any interim or annual period and the correction of the error in the third quarter 2018 is not expected to be material to the annual financial statements for 2018.
On January 1, 2018, we adopted ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC Topic 606), which superseded nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP.
We adopted this standard using the modified retrospective method of adoption.
Under ASC Topic 606, based on the nature of our contracts and consistent with prior practice, we recognize revenue upon invoicing the customer for the large majority of our revenue.
Additionally, the unit of accounting, that is, the identification of performance obligations, is consistent with prior revenue recognition practice.
Accordingly, in 2018 these revenues are now reported as part of Sales.
As a result of this change, $8 and $25 of revenue was recorded, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, as Sales, which would have been previously recorded as Services revenue in prior periods.
We generate revenue through the sale of equipment, supplies and maintenance and printing services.
As a result of the application of this practical expedient for the substantial portion of our revenue, the disclosure of the value of unsatisfied performance obligations for our services is not required.
Significant judgments primarily include the identification of performance obligations in our Document management services arrangements as well the pattern of delivery for those services.


item2.txt
Throughout this document, references to “we,” “our,” the “company,” and “Xerox” refer to Xerox Corporation and its subsidiaries.
We refer to this analysis as "constant currency", “currency impact” or “the impact from currency.” This impact is calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period's currency translation rate.
This impact is calculated for all countries where the functional currency is the local country currency.
Currency impact can be determined as the difference between actual growth rates and constant currency growth rates.
Refer to Note 19 - Contingencies and Litigation and Note 20 - Fuji Xerox Transaction and Recent Developments in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to this terminated transaction and related matters.
These incremental adjustments primarily relate to Fuji Xerox’s Asia Pacific subsidiaries and involve improper revenue recognition, including revenue associated with leasing transactions, additional provisions for bad debt allowances and other asset impairments.
Refer to Note 9 - Investments in Affiliates, at Equity in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
Post sale revenue declined 6.4% from third quarter 2017 and included a 1.2-percentage point unfavorable impact from currency.
The decrease in Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the three months ended September 30, 2018 was also partially offset by lower Transaction and related costs, net, primarily due to recoveries during third quarter 2018.
We are continuing to monitor developments in this area and will make efforts to mitigate the impact to the extent possible.
Operating cash flows also increased due to improved working capital2 as well as lower other pension contributions.
Equipment sales revenue decreased 3.8% for the three months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to third quarter 2017, with a 1.1-percentage point unfavorable impact from currency, while equipment sales revenue decreased 1.8% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to the prior year period, with a 1.3-percentage point favorable impact from currency.


item4.txt
Not applicable.
None.


part2.txt
This program replaces the $245 million of authority remaining under Registrant’s previously authorized share repurchase program.
None.


