fls.txt



item1.txt
You should read these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our 2017 Annual Report.
Accordingly, we revised our previously issued consolidated financial statements for the first quarter of 2017.
The effect of the revision on our previously issued financial statements is provided in the tables below.
On January 1, 2018 we adopted ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC Topic 606), which superseded nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP.
We adopted this standard using the modified retrospective method of adoption.
Under ASC Topic 606, based on the nature of our contracts and consistent with prior practice, we recognize revenue upon invoicing the customer for the large majority of our revenue.
Additionally, the unit of accounting, that is, the identification of performance obligations, is consistent with prior revenue recognition practice.
Accordingly, in 2018 these revenues are now reported as part of Sales.
In the first quarter of 2018, as result of this change, $9 of revenue was recorded as Sales, which would have been previously recorded as Services revenue in prior periods.
However, as a result of the contract cost guidance included in ASC Topic 606 and ASC Topic 340-40 "Contracts with Customers", upon adoption, we recorded a transition asset of $153, and a net of tax increase of $117 to retained earnings, related to the incremental cost to obtain contracts.
We generate revenue through the sale of equipment, supplies and maintenance and printing services.
As a result of the application of this practical expedient for the substantial portion of our revenue, the disclosure of the value of unsatisfied performance obligations for our services is not required.
Significant judgments primarily include the identification of performance obligations in our Document management services arrangements as well the pattern of delivery for those services.


item2.txt
Throughout this document, references to “we,” “our,” the “company,” and “Xerox” refer to Xerox Corporation and its subsidiaries.
This impact is calculated for all countries where the functional currency is the local country currency.
We do not hedge the translation effect of revenues or expenses denominated in currencies where the local currency is the functional currency.
Currency impact can be determined as the difference between actual growth rates and constant currency growth rates.
Post-sale revenue, which primarily reflects contracted services, equipment maintenance, supplies and financing, were $1.94 billion and represented 80% of total revenues.
CC - See "Currency Impact" section for a description of Constant Currency.
Post sale revenue primarily reflects contracted services, equipment maintenance, supplies and financing.
•Supplies, paper and other sales includes unbundled supplies and other sales.
CC - See "Currency Impact" section for a description of Constant Currency.
Mid-range declined modestly at constant currency1 reflecting higher installs of new products offset by ongoing declines consistent with overall market trends.
•18% increase in black-and-white multifunction devices, driven largely by higher activity for low-end devices in developing markets.
•9% decrease in high-end black-and-white systems reflecting market trends.


item4.txt
Not applicable.
None.


part2.txt
None.
Not applicable.


