fls.txt



item1.txt
You should read these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our 2017 Annual Report.
On January 1, 2018, we adopted ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC Topic 606), which superseded nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP.
We adopted this standard using the modified retrospective method of adoption.
Under ASC Topic 606, based on the nature of our contracts and consistent with prior practice, we recognize revenue upon invoicing the customer for the large majority of our revenue.
Additionally, the unit of accounting, that is, the identification of performance obligations, is consistent with prior revenue recognition practice.
Accordingly, in 2018 these revenues are now reported as part of Sales.
As a result of this change, $9 and $20 of revenue was recorded, for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, as Sales, which would have been previously recorded as Services revenue in prior periods.
We generate revenue through the sale of equipment, supplies and maintenance and printing services.
As a result of the application of this practical expedient for the substantial portion of our revenue, the disclosure of the value of unsatisfied performance obligations for our services is not required.
Significant judgments primarily include the identification of performance obligations in our Document management services arrangements as well the pattern of delivery for those services.
Certain document management services arrangements may also include an embedded lease of equipment.
In these instances, the revenues associated with the lease are recognized in accordance with the requirements for lease accounting.


item2.txt
Throughout this document, references to “we,” “our,” the “company,” and “Xerox” refer to Xerox Corporation and its subsidiaries.
We refer to this analysis as "constant currency", “currency impact” or “the impact from currency.” This impact is calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period's currency translation rate.
This impact is calculated for all countries where the functional currency is the local country currency.
Currency impact can be determined as the difference between actual growth rates and constant currency growth rates.
Refer to Note 18 - Contingencies and Litigation and Note 19 - Fuji Xerox Transaction and Recent Developments in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to this terminated transaction and related matters.
These incremental adjustments primarily relate to Fuji Xerox’s Asia Pacific subsidiaries and involve improper revenue recognition, including revenue associated with leasing transactions, additional provisions for bad debt allowances and other asset impairments.
Refer to Note 9 - Investments in Affiliates, at Equity in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
Post sale revenue declined 3.1% from second quarter 2017 and included a 1.9-percentage point favorable impact from currency.
These declines were partially offset by higher revenues from our Managed Document Services (MDS) and Global Imaging business as well as higher paper sales revenue and supplies revenue, excluding original equipment manufacturer (OEM) supplies.
The decrease in Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to the prior year periods was primarily due to Transaction and related costs, net and lower revenues.
Operating cash flow from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the six months ended June 30, 2018 was $451 million, as compared to $413 million for the prior year period.


item4.txt
Not applicable.
None.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 13, 2018.


part2.txt
This program replaces the $245 million of authority remaining under Registrant’s previously authorized share repurchase program.
None.
Not applicable.
None.


