fls.txt



item1.txt
References herein to “we,” “us,” “our,” the “company” and “Xerox” refer to Xerox Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries unless the context suggests otherwise.
You should read these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our 2018 Annual Report.
Subsequent to the Reorganization, Xerox Holdings contributed the Xerox Series B Preferred Stock it held to Xerox in exchange for additional capital and Xerox subsequently extinguished the Series B Preferred Stock.
The contribution and extinguishment were recorded at carrying value.
This realignment included the combination and consolidation of certain sales units to better service customers consistently across the company.
Prior year amounts were also revised as follows to conform to the 2019 presentation.
This update requires measurement and recognition of expected credit losses for financial assets.
The update impacts financial assets and net investment in leases that are not accounted for at fair value through Net Income.
This update is effective for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2020.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-15, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other - Internal Use Software (Subtopic 350-40), Customer's Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That is a Service Contract.
This update aligns the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software (and hosting arrangements that include an internal-use software license).
The update provides criteria for determining which implementation costs to capitalize as an asset related to the service contract and which costs to expense.
The capitalized implementation costs are required to be expensed over the term of the hosting arrangement.
This update is effective for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2020.
On January 1, 2019, we adopted ASU 2016-02, Leases (ASC Topic 842).


item2.txt
Throughout this document, references to “we,” “our,” the “Company,” and “Xerox” refer to Xerox Corporation and its subsidiaries.
We refer to this analysis as "constant currency", “currency impact” or “the impact from currency.” This impact is calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period's currency translation rate.
Currency impact can be determined as the difference between actual growth rates and constant currency growth rates.
$20 million as compared to second quarter 2018.
These benefits were partially offset by higher Restructuring and related costs.
Adjusted1 net income attributable to Xerox for the six months ended June 30, 2019 increased $61 million as compared to the prior year period.
Cash flows provided by operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2019 were $539 million, as compared to $451 million in the prior year period primarily reflecting increased dividends from equity investments and lower cash payments for Transaction and related costs.
These benefits were partially offset by higher payments for restructuring related costs and a use of cash for working capital2.


item4.txt
The transition of these functions to HCL is expected to take up to 18 months.
In response to this arrangement, the Company has and will continue to align and streamline the design and operation of its financial control environment.
2.0 Certificate of Merger dated July 31, 2019 between Xerox Merger Sub, Inc. and Xerox Corporation.
3.1 Xerox Corporation's Restated Certificate of Incorporation filed with the Department of State of New York on July 31, 2019.


part2.txt
c.The DSUs were issued at a deemed purchase price of $32.355 per DSU (aggregate price $613,710), based upon the market value on the date of issuance, in payment of the Annual Director's fees pursuant to Xerox Corporation's 2004 Equity Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors.
2.0 Certificate of Merger dated July 31, 2019 between Xerox Merger Sub, Inc. and Xerox Corporation.
3.1 Xerox Corporation's Restated Certificate of Incorporation filed with the Department of State of New York on July 31, 2019.


