fls.txt
Actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements.
Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section below entitled “Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,” elsewhere herein and in other filings made with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2018.
Statements regarding future events and developments, our future performance, payment of dividends, ability to utilize our net deferred tax assets and availability of earnings and profits with respect to dividend income, as well as our expectations, beliefs, plans, estimates or projections relating to the future and current assessments of business opportunities, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of these laws.
Examples of our forward-looking statements in this report include, but are not limited to: the ability of the Board of Directors and Asset Management Committee to identify suitable business opportunities and acquisition targets and the Company’s ability to consummate a transaction with such acquisition targets; our ability to successfully develop our real estate operations; expectations to fund additional MCAs; the impact of any strategic initiatives we may undertake; the impact of the current reestablishment of and potential for future release of our tax valuation allowances on future income tax provisions and income taxes paid; expected level of capital additions; our expected cash position; the impact of interest rate changes and fluctuation in currency exchange rates; our sufficiency of cash; and the impact of litigation and the payment of any declared dividends.
All forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events to differ materially from those projected.


item1.txt
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our content delivery and storage business (the “Content Delivery business”) and other related assets to Vecima Networks, Inc.
Results of the Content Delivery business are retrospectively reported as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for all periods presented.
In fiscal year 2018, following the sale of the Content Delivery business, we began developing a real estate operation initially through, among other things, making a number of commercial loans secured by real property.
Based on the success of these activities, including the yield characteristics of these loans, and management’s experience in the real estate area, we created Recur Holdings LLC, a Delaware limited liability company wholly owned by the Company, during the first quarter of our fiscal year 2019.
Held-to-maturity securities are recorded as either short term or long term in the consolidated balance sheet based on contractual maturity date and are stated at amortized cost.
Marketable securities that are bought and held principally for the purpose of selling them in the near term are classified as trading securities and are reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses recognized in earnings.
Debt securities not classified as held-to-maturity or as trading are classified as available-for-sale, and are carried at fair market value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in the determination of comprehensive income and reported in stockholders’ equity.
We have the intent and ability to hold our commercial loans to maturity and have not recorded provisions for loan losses as of December 31, 2018.
These loans are reported on the balance sheet at the outstanding principal balance adjusted for any charge-offs, allowance for loan losses, and deferred fees or costs.
As of December 31, 2018, we have not recorded any charge-offs, and believe that an allowance for loan losses is not required.
In December 2018, we began purchasing participation interests in Merchant Cash Advances (“MCAs”) from a third party whose principal activity is originating MCAs to small businesses.
MCAs are contracts formed through a future receivables or receipts purchase and sale agreement, which stipulates the purchase price, or the amount advanced, and the specified amount, or the advance amount plus the factored receivable balance the Company will be repaid, on the face of the contract.
During the six months ended December 31, 2018, we provided a $2,000 cash advance to an aviation business to fund the deposit required for the recipient’s aircraft purchases for up to six months, in exchange for paying us an upfront fee and a guaranty of the full repayment obligation from the principal of the third-party business.
The fee is earned over the six-month advance period and is reported as part of merchant cash advance income within the statement of operations.
The allowance for credit losses for MCAs is established at the time of funding through a provision for losses charged to our statement of operations based on historical performance experienced by an industry peer group.
The factor income represents the amount of the purchased receivables in excess of the funded contract amount advanced to the merchant in accordance with the merchant agreement net of amounts related to participations.
Factor income on merchant advance receivables is earned and recognized ratably as receivables are collected, at factor rates stipulated in the client funding agreement from the date of purchase through the date the receivables are collected or ceases accruing factor revenue when the receivable is identified as uncollectible.
Due to the loss from continuing operations for both periods presented, weighted average common share equivalents of 10,937 and 315,771 for the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and weighted average common share equivalents of 13,420 and 322,570 for the six months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, were excluded from the calculation as their effect would have been anti-dilutive.
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly fashion between market participants at the measurement date.
When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required or permitted to be either recorded or disclosed at fair value, we consider the most advantageous market in which it would transact and assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of the Content Delivery business and other related assets to Vecima pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima for a purchase price of $29,000 (subject to an adjustment for net working capital).
The sale included our Content Delivery business assets and related liabilities in the United States, United Kingdom, and Germany, as well as the sale of all equity in our Japanese subsidiary.
Results associated with the Content Delivery business are classified within income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
Operating expenses recorded in discontinued operations include costs incurred directly in support of the Content Delivery business.
As of June 30, 2018, we had U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”) of approximately $56,113 for income tax purposes, of which none expire in fiscal year 2019, and the remainder expire at various dates through fiscal year 2037.
During the year ended June 30, 2017, we applied for both a U.S. federal and state of Georgia research and development tax credit in the amounts of $719 and $675, respectively, for our fiscal year ending June 30, 2016.
For the state of Georgia tax credit, we have recorded the credit within both other current assets and other long-term assets with an offset in both accrued expenses and other long-term liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2018 and June 30, 2018, respectively.
As a result, as the credit is claimed, we will (1) reduce other current assets and offset the payroll tax liability and (2) reduce accrued expenses and recognize a reduction of operating expenses.
As a condition of the sale of our Content Delivery business to Vecima on December 31, 2017, $1,450 of the purchase price proceeds were placed in escrow as security for our indemnification obligations to Vecima under the CDN APA, through December 31, 2018, with any portion used to reimburse Vecima for indemnification payments deducted from the escrow balance.
Our acquisition of such interest is subject to us negotiating and executing with LuxeMark a mutually acceptable definitive and binding purchase agreement with respect to the business, which we expect will contain a number of conditions to closing the acquisition, including (i) our completion of satisfactory due diligence with respect to LuxeMark’s business, and (ii) satisfaction of customary closing conditions and, dependent on the results of due diligence and negotiation of the definitive documents between the parties, may require material modifications to the terms set forth in the letter of intent.
An MCA funder provides small businesses with cash advances in return for the purchase of an amount of the small business’s future receipts.
This business presents a number of unique risks, including the illiquidity of the cash advances; our critical reliance on certain individuals to operate the business; collection and cash advance repayment issues and challenges given that the MCAs are typically unsecured; and sensitivity to general economic conditions.


item2.txt
The Investment Committee, a special sub-committee of the Board, was established in December 2017 upon the signing of the CDN APA for the purpose of considering alternative means to deploy the proceeds of the sale of the Content Delivery business and other corporate assets to maximize long-term value for our stockholders.
In December 2018, we entered into an arrangement with a leading MCA originator to participate in funding MCAs. We made an initial advance of $5.0 million to the originator (the “Initial MCA Advance”), who in turn advanced these funds to merchants as part of a syndication.
As of December 31, 2018, our revenue and receivables from MCAs were derived from a single MCA originator with which we funded, in syndication, more than 100 advances to merchants.
Additionally, the Company intends to fund up to $10 million in MCA capital, including through the Initial MCA Advance, which LuxeMark facilitated and for which LuxeMark provides certain servicing.
During the three months ended December 31, 2018, we earned $0.2 million of interest income on seven mortgage and other commercial loans with a weighted average annualized yield of 11.0%.
We generated $0.2 million of income from MCAs during the period and expect to fund additional MCAs in the remaining quarters of our fiscal year 2019.
·a $1.8 million decrease in stock-based compensation expense resulting from the acceleration of vesting of restricted stock awards in the prior year due to the change of control triggered by the sale of our Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017;  
·a $0.7 million decrease in bonuses due primarily to the non-recurring bonuses paid in the prior year period for the completion of the sale of our Content Delivery business; and  
·a $0.6 million decrease in severance related to our former CEO that was terminated in conjunction with the sale of our Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017.
We established a provision for credit losses specifically for the MCAs that we began participating in during the second quarter of our fiscal year 2019.
The allowance for credit losses for MCAs is established at the time of purchase through a provision for losses charged to our statement of operations based on historical performance experienced by an industry peer group.
In the latter half of our fiscal year 2018, we began investing a portion of our business sale proceeds in equity securities, some of which declared and paid dividends during the three months ended December 31, 2018.
Our income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, for the three months ended December 31, 2017 includes the financial results of the Content Delivery business for that period, as further described in Note 3, “Discontinued Operations,” to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.
During the six months ended December 31, 2018, we earned $0.3 million of interest income on eight mortgage and other commercial loans with an average aggregate carrying value of $5.4 million during the period and a weighted average annualized yield of 10.9%.
We generated $0.2 million of income from MCAs during the period and expect to fund additional MCAs in the remaining quarters of our fiscal year 2019.
·a $1.9 million decrease in stock-based compensation expense, primarily resulting from the acceleration of vesting of restricted stock awards in the prior year due to the change of control triggered by the sale of our Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017;  
·a $0.8 million decrease in bonuses due primarily to the non-recurring bonuses paid in the prior year period for the completion of the sale of our Content Delivery business, and secondarily for annual incentive plan bonuses for operating results for the first half of the prior fiscal year;  
·a $0.6 million decrease in severance primarily related to our former CEO that was terminated in conjunction with the sale of our Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017;  
·a $0.3 million decrease in personnel costs, as we have reduced the number of employees from continuing operations subsequent to the sale of the Content Delivery business; and  
We established a provision for credit losses specifically for the MCAs that we began participating in during the second quarter of our fiscal year 2019.
In the latter half of our fiscal year 2018 we began investing a portion of our business sale proceeds in equity securities, some of which declared and paid dividends during the six months ended December 31, 2018.
During the first quarter of our fiscal year 2019 we sold our investment position in certain debt and equity securities for which we recognized a $0.2 million realized gain for the six months ended December 31, 2018.
Our income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, for the six months ended December 31, 2017 includes the financial results of the Content Delivery business for that period, which is further described in Note 3, “Discontinued Operations,” to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.
As advances have been collected from the merchants, we have used the collected funds to fund additional MCAs. Through December 31, 2018, we have funded $5.9 million in MCAs and collected $0.9 million of merchant receivables as repayment for these advances.
Additionally, we provided a $2 million cash advance to an aviation business to fund the deposit required for the recipient’s aircraft purchases for up to six months, in exchange for paying us an upfront fee.
In the prior fiscal year six-month period, we paid two quarterly cash dividends, each for $0.12 per share, and $2.3 million in aggregate.
Based upon our existing cash balances, equity securities and available-for-sale-term investments, historical cash usage, and anticipated operating cash flow in the current fiscal year, we believe that existing U.S. cash balances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated working capital requirements for at least the next 12 months from the issuance date of this report.


part2.txt
Our acquisition of such interest is subject to us negotiating and executing with LuxeMark a mutually acceptable definitive and binding purchase agreement with respect to the business, which we expect will contain a number of conditions to closing the acquisition, including (i) our completion of satisfactory due diligence with respect to LuxeMark’s business, and (ii) satisfaction of customary closing conditions and, dependent on the results of due diligence and negotiation of the definitive documents between the parties, may require material modifications to the terms set forth in the letter of intent.
There can be no assurance that LuxeMark will be willing to proceed with a transaction, that we will be able to negotiate and execute a satisfactory definitive purchase agreement with LuxeMark, that our due diligence will be satisfactory, or that the conditions to closing will be satisfied.
This business presents a number of unique risks, including the illiquidity of the cash advances; our critical reliance on certain individuals to operate the business; collection and cash advance repayment issues and challenges given that the MCAs are typically unsecured; and sensitivity to general economic conditions.
A variety of factors could make it difficult for us to modify our real estate portfolio in response to changing economic or other relevant conditions, thus creating risk of loss associated with those changed conditions.
In addition, we may seek to restrict the percentage of our assets that are contained in illiquid real estate assets by seeking financing to continue expansion of our real estate operations while maintaining sufficient liquid assets to execute our business plan and invest in other value producing assets, including acquisition of additional businesses and assets.
We may engage in real estate transactions or other strategic opportunities that involve property types or structures with which we have less familiarity, thereby increasing our risk of loss.
We may be able to achieve greater realization of the value of our NOLs with certain business or asset acquisitions.
There is no guarantee that we will be able to find or consummate an acquisition that allows for utilization of our NOLs and we may engage in acquisitions that do not facilitate use of the NOLs. In any acquisition we may be limited by our available cash and cash equivalents or ability to obtain financing in order to preserve use of our NOLs. Use of our NOLs can be impaired by certain shift in the ownership of our common stock and thus we are limited in our ability to use stock in an acquisition for NOL preservation purposes.
Alternatively, while we have not identified or committed to any such transactions, we may identify acquisitions that we believe will provide value sufficient to forego preservation of the NOLs to participate in the acquisition opportunity.


