item1.txt
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our content delivery and storage business (the “Content Delivery business”) and other related assets to Vecima Networks, Inc.
Debt securities for which the Company does not have the intent or ability to hold to maturity are classified as available-for-sale.
Marketable securities that are bought and held principally for the purpose of selling them in the near term are classified as trading securities and are reported as fair value, with unrealized gains and losses recognized in earnings.
Debt and marketable equity securities not classified as held-to-maturity or as trading, are classified as available-for-sale, and are carried at fair market value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in the determination of comprehensive income (loss) and reported in stockholders’ equity.
The amendments contained in ASU 2017-01 are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017 and may be early adopted for certain transactions that have occurred before the effective date, but only when the underlying transaction has not been reported in the financial statements that have been issued or made available for issuance.
Due to the loss from continuing operations for all periods presented, common share equivalents of 9,614 and 238,696 for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and common share equivalents of 216,791 and 250,441 for the nine months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively,were excluded from the calculation as their effect was anti-dilutive.
As noted above, on December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our Content Delivery business and other related assets to Vecima pursuant to an Asset Purchase agreement, dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima (the “CDN APA”) for a purchase price of $29,000 (subject to an adjustment for net working capital).
The sale included our Content Delivery business assets and related liabilities in the United States, United Kingdom, and Germany, as well as the sale of all equity in our Japanese subsidiary.
During the third quarter of our fiscal 2018, we and Vecima finalized the calculation of net working capital of the Content Delivery business as of December 31, 2017.
We reduced our gain on the sale of the Content Delivery business as reported during the period ended December 31, 2017 by the amount of the final post-closing working capital adjustment.
Results associated with the Content Delivery business are classified within income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, in our condensed consolidated statements of operations.
As a result, the Company recognized expense of approximately $1,745 in share-based compensation expense due to the acceleration of the vesting and the lapse of restrictions on substantially all restricted stock granted under our Amended and Restated 2011 Stock Incentive Plan (see Note 7 – Share-based Compensation).
Transaction costs directly associated with the sale of the Content Delivery business include legal, accounting, investment banking and other fees paid to external parties.
In connection with the sale of our Content Delivery business (1) we entered into a Separation and Consulting Agreement and General Release of Claims with Derek Elder, our former President and Chief Executive Officer, as a result of which (A) Mr. Elder’s role as president and chief executive officer was terminated, (B) Mr. Elder ceased to be a member of our Board of Directors and all committees thereof, and (C) we recorded severance related expenses of $544 pursuant to his Separation and Consulting Agreement (see Note 12 – Commitments and Contingencies – Separation of Chief Executive Officer), (2) we terminated the employment of another executive of the Company and recorded severance expenses of $132, (3) we paid transaction bonuses that had previously been approved by our compensation committee of $479 to internal executives and staff and (4) we accepted the resignation of an independent director of the Company (see Note 12 – Commitments and Contingencies – Resignation of Directors).
All of the above expenses were recorded as of December 31, 2017 and are included in general and administrative expenses of continuing operations in our condensed consolidated statement of operations for the nine months ended March 31, 2018.
On May 15, 2017, we completed the sale and transfer of certain assets and certain liabilities primarily related to our Real-Time business pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement (the “RT APA”) dated as of May 15, 2017 with Real Time, Inc.
Pursuant to the terms of the RT APA, we sold and transferred certain respective equity interests in one of our subsidiaries, which constituted the European operations of the Real-Time business, upon receipt of French regulatory approval on May 30, 2017.
Our marketable securities are classified as available-for-sale and are reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, reported in stockholders’ equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income or loss.
For both the three and nine months ended March 31, 2018, the domestic tax expense is lower than the prior year primarily due to the favorable impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (enacted on December 22, 2017) on the realizability of our alternative minimum tax credits and lower domestic income as compared to the same periods from the prior year.
As a result of the recognition of a taxable gain on the sale of our Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017, we utilized approximately $16,537 of our federal NOLs during the nine months ended March 31, 2018.
At our 2016 Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on October 26, 2016, our stockholders adopted a formal amendment to our certificate of incorporation (the “Protective Amendment”) to deter any person acquiring 4.9% or more of the outstanding Common Stock without the approval of our Board in order to protect the value of our NOLs. The Protective Amendment was extended by our stockholders at our 2017 Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on October 25, 2017 and will expire on the earliest of (i) the Board of Directors’ determination that the Protective Amendment is no longer necessary for the preservation of the Company’s NOLs because of the amendment or repeal of Section 382 or any successor statute, (ii) the close of business on the first day of any taxable year of CCUR Holdings to which the Board of Directors determines that none of our NOLs may be carried forward (iii) such date as the Board of Directors otherwise determines that the Protective Amendment is no longer necessary for the preservation of the Company’s NOLs and (iv) the date of our Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held during calendar year 2018.
The Consent and Limited Waiver provides that so long as (i) the Investor Group collectively beneficially own no more than 30.0% of the outstanding shares of common stock of the Company and (ii) any acquisition of common stock of the Company by the Investor Group would not reasonably be expected to limit the Company’s ability to utilize the Company’s net operating loss carryforwards, the Company shall not deem the Investor Group to have effected a Prohibited Transfer as that term is defined in the Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation.
As indicated in our Form 8-K filed on April 25, 2018, the Amended Consent and Limited Waiver was subsequently amended to provide that so long as (i) the Investor Group collectively beneficially own no more than 35.0% of the outstanding shares of common stock of the Company less the remaining shares of Common Stock that the Company is authorized to purchase under its stock repurchase program as announced on March 5, 2018, pursuant to which the Company is authorized to repurchase up to one million of its outstanding shares of Common Stock and (ii) any acquisition of common stock of the Company by the Investor Group would not reasonably be expected to actually limit the Company’s ability to utilize the Company’s net operating loss carryforwards, the Company shall not deem the Investor Group to have effected a Prohibited Transfer as that term is defined in the Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation.
Additionally, one of our independent directors resigned from the Board of Directors, effective on December 31, 2017 (see Note 14 – Commitments and Contingencies – Resignation of Directors) and we accelerated the vesting of 7,500 shares of previously non-vested restricted stock held by that director.
This acceleration of vesting resulted in incremental stock compensation expense of $43 during the three months ended December 31, 2017.
As of March 31, 2018, 22,500 restricted stock awards granted to our three remaining directors who received restricted shares in November 2017 remain outstanding and subject to their original time-based vesting schedule, as the Board determined these shares should not vest upon the sale of our Content Delivery business.
This acceleration of vesting resulted in incremental stock compensation expense of $37 during the nine months ended March 31, 2018.
All remaining share-based compensation expense for the three and nine-month periods ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 resulted from vesting of shares over their respective vesting periods.
On January 2, 2018, we purchased 41,566 shares of our common stock at an average price of $5.76 per share from certain employees whose restricted shares vested due to the change in control triggered by the sale of our Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017.
The repurchase of shares was approved by the Board of Directors on a one-time basis to facilitate employees’ payment of payroll withholding taxes due upon vesting of the shares.
Shares were repurchased from employees only to the extent required to fund minimum required withholding taxes based on the closing price nearest to the December 31, 2017 vest date.
On October 27, 2017, we announced the Board of Directors’ decision to suspend the Company’s quarterly dividend following the payment of the December 28, 2017 dividend to preserve the Company’s liquidity while the Investment Committee considers potential acquisition targets and alternative uses of the Company’s remaining assets, including the proceeds of the Vecima transaction.
For the nine months ended March 31, 2018, $8 of dividends payable were forfeited and returned to capital for restricted shares that were forfeited prior to meeting vesting requirements.
In the event an agreement is terminated by us without cause or in certain circumstances constructively by us, the terminated employee will receive severance compensation for a period from 6 to 12 months, depending on the employee, in an annualized amount equal to the respective employee's base salary then in effect.
In the event of the CFO’s termination without “due cause” (as defined in the Employment Agreement), he will be entitled to receive a severance package consisting of (i) salary continuation payments for a period of twelve (12) months from the date of such termination at his most recent salary rate, (ii) the amount, if any, paid as an annual bonus in the year preceding termination, and (iii) COBRA continuation coverage under the Company’s hospitalization and medical plan and for the 12-month period following termination, he and his eligible dependents at the time of termination will be eligible to continue coverage at the same premium charged to active employees.
In connection with these resignations, we agreed to accelerate the vesting of 5,400 shares of restricted stock held by each of the resigning directors (including an aggregate of $7 of accrued dividends released upon the acceleration of the vesting of the restricted stock), and to make a one-time payment to each of the resigning directors of $52, which includes unpaid meeting fees through the date of resignation.
The resignation of Mr. Pons did not involve any disagreement with the Board of Directors, the Company or its management on any matter relating to our operations, policies or practices.
In connection with his release of any claims against us, we agreed to accelerate the vesting of 7,500 shares of restricted stock held by Mr. Pons as of December 31, 2017.
Pursuant to the Consulting Agreement, Spartan will provide consulting services to us as reasonably requested by the Board of Directors, which services shall include identifying and presenting investment opportunities to the Company within the parameters provided by the Board from time to time.
Any transaction bonus payable to Spartan will equal the sum of (i) 1% of the total consideration paid by us for the Sourced Business in the Sourced Transaction and (ii) 7.5% of the “Net Asset Value” (as defined in the Consulting Agreement) of any subsequent sale of the Sourced Business by the Company.
Spartan will also receive 7,500 shares of restricted units of common stock of the Company, which will vest in equal installments on the first, second, and third anniversary of the Consulting Agreement.
In the past, our largest stockholder, JDS1, LLC has disgorged “short-swing” profits to the Company, which is a term that describes certain profits of Section 16 reporting persons realized from transactions in common stock or derivative securities during a specified time period that are subject to disgorgement under Section 16 of the Exchange Act. The Company continuously reviews transactions by JDS1, LLC (and other Section 16 reporting persons to the extent such transactions occur) in our common stock and derivative securities referencing our common stock for additional transactions that may be subject to Section 16 and require disgorgement.
We are exposed to market risk primarily through changes in fair value of available-for-sale fixed maturity and equity securities in which the Company invests.


item2.txt
Having divested both our Real-Time and Content Delivery businesses, we are now in the process of evaluating opportunities intended to maximize the value of our remaining assets, which consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, available-for-sale investments, escrow funds receivable, and approximately $56 million in U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards.
Results of our Content Delivery and Real-Time businesses are retrospectively reflected as discontinued operations in our consolidated financial statements for all periods presented (see Note 4 to the condensed consolidated financial statements).
During the third quarter of our fiscal 2018, we and Vecima finalized the calculation of net working capital of the Content Delivery business as of December 31, 2017.
We reduced our gain on the sale of the Content Delivery business reported during the period ended December 31, 2017 by the amount of the final post-closing working capital adjustment, so our third quarter return of excess working capital payment did not result in an additional third quarter adjustment to our gain on the transaction.
As a result, we have recognized the acceleration of the vesting and the lapse of restrictions on substantially all restricted stock granted under our Amended and Restated 2011 Stock Incentive Plan and payment of any associated accrued dividends in connection with the consummation of the sale of the Content Delivery business to Vecima.
This decrease was primarily due to approximately $0.9 million in legal and accounting fees that we incurred in the third quarter of our prior year related to the transaction to sell our Real-Time business that was not consummated until the fourth quarter of the prior fiscal year.
Additionally, our third quarter of fiscal 2018 share based compensation expense decreased by approximately $0.1 million relative to the same period in the prior year due to 1) the acceleration of restricted share vesting that occurred with the change of control triggered by the sale of our Content Delivery business as of December 31, 2017 and 2) the limited number of remaining share-based compensation participants following the sale of both our Content Delivery and Real-Time businesses.
Interest income increased in the current period relative to the prior period due to our increase in cash and available-for-sale investments as a result of the sales of our Content Delivery business in December 2017 and Real-Time business in May 2017.
Our loss from continuing operations for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was $0.8 million, or $0.09 loss per basic and diluted share, compared to a net loss from continuing operations for the three months ended March 31, 2017 of $2.2 million, or $0.24 loss per basic and diluted share.
Interest income increased in the current period relative to the prior period due to our increase in cash and available-for-sale investments as a result of the sale of our Real-Time business in May 2017 and Content Delivery business in December 2017.
Our loss from continuing operations for the nine months ended March 31, 2018 was $5.1 million, or $0.53 loss per basic and diluted share, compared to a net loss for the nine months ended March 31, 2017 of $5.2 million, or $0.56 loss per basic and diluted share.
Operating cash flows during the nine months ending March 31, 2018 were primarily attributable to the timing of payments made against our accounts payable to settle the previous year’s transaction costs related to the sale of our Real-Time business, inventory purchases and accrued compensation, coupled with losses from continuing operations.
Operating cash flows during the nine months ended March 31, 2017 were primarily attributable to the collection of accounts receivable for sales shipped late in the prior year, offset by the current period net loss.
During the nine months ended March 31, 2018, we generated $28.3 million of cash from the sale of our Content Delivery business and $11.7 million of cash from the maturity of available-for-sale securities.
On January 2, 2018, we purchased 41,566 shares from certain non-Section 16 employees whose shares vested due to the change in control triggered by the sale of our Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017.
Based upon our existing cash balances and available-for-sale-term investments, historical cash usage, and anticipated operating cash flow in the current fiscal year, we believe that existing U.S. cash balances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated working capital requirements for at least the next 12 months.
(1)On January 2, 2018, the Company purchased 41,566 shares from certain employees whose shares vested due to the change in control triggered by the sale of our Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017.


part2.txt
On March 5, 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of up to 1 million shares of the Company’s common stock.
To the extent the Company engages in stock repurchases, such activity is subject to market conditions, such as the trading prices for our stock, as well as the terms of any stock purchase plans intended to comply with Rule 10b5-1 or Rule 10b-18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
We may be subject to lawsuits relating to Section 16 of the Exchange Act based on certain transactions in our common stock and derivative securities referencing our common stock.
In the past, our largest stockholder, JDS1, LLC has disgorged “short-swing” profits to the Company, which is a term that describes certain profits of Section 16 reporting persons realized from transactions in common stock or derivative securities during a specified time period that are subject to disgorgement under Section 16 of the Exchange Act. The Company continuously reviews transactions by JDS1, LLC (and other Section 16 reporting persons to the extent such transactions occur) in our common stock and derivative securities referencing our common stock for additional transactions that may be subject to Section 16 and require disgorgement.
While the Company has taken the steps described above to address transactions of Section 16 reporting persons, there can be no assurance that related litigation will not arise, including litigation initiated by the stockholders that have contacted the Company regarding these transactions.
We are exposed to market risk primarily through changes in fair value of available-for-sale fixed maturity and equity securities in which the Company invests.
The repurchase of shares was approved by the Board of Directors on a one-time basis to facilitate employees’ payment of payroll withholding taxes due upon vesting of the shares.
From April 1 through May 3, 2018, we repurchased an additional 354,336 shares of our common stock, bringing the total shares repurchased this fiscal year to 708,426 at average of $5.12 (of which 666,860 shares were repurchased under the stock repurchase plan described in footnote 2 above).


