item1.txt
Results of the Content Delivery business are retrospectively reported as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for all periods presented.
LMCS operates through its syndication network to facilitate merchant cash advance (“MCA”) funding by connecting a network of MCA originators (sometimes referred to herein as “funders”) with syndicate participants who provide those originators with additional capital by purchasing participation interests in funded MCAs. In addition, LMCS provides reporting and other administrative services to its syndication network.
Through LMCS, we (i) continue to operate the LuxeMark syndication network by sourcing syndication funding for MCA originators and providing reporting and other administrative services in exchange for a syndication fee, (ii) directly purchase participation interests from MCA originators for LMCS’ own MCA portfolio and (iii) provide loans to MCA originators to fund the MCAs themselves, which generates interest income and syndication fee income from servicing those MCAs.
The Company allocates the purchase price of the acquisition to the tangible assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and identifiable intangible assets acquired based on their estimated fair values.
After the measurement period, which could be up to one year after the transaction date, subsequent adjustments are recorded to the Company’s consolidated statements of operations.
The Company recognizes the fair value of contingent consideration as of the acquisition date as part of the consideration transferred in exchange for an acquired business.
The fair value of the contingent consideration is recorded as a liability and remeasured each accounting period, with any resulting change being recorded as an operating income or loss item within the statement of operations.
Goodwill represents the excess of purchase price over the fair value of the net assets of businesses acquired.
On an annual basis, the Company makes a qualitative assessment to determine if it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill.
For the quantitative impairment test, the Company compares the fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying value, including goodwill.
The Company determines the fair value of the reporting unit based on a weighting of income and market approaches.
If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value of the net assets assigned to that unit, goodwill is not impaired and no further testing is performed.
If the carrying value of the net assets assigned to the reporting unit exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit, then the Company will recognize a loss equal to the excess, limited to the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.
Marketable securities that are bought and held principally for the purpose of selling them in the near term are classified as trading securities and are reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses recognized in earnings.
Debt securities not classified as held-to-maturity or as trading are classified as available-for-sale, and are carried at fair market value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in the determination of comprehensive income and reported in stockholders’ equity.
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly fashion between market participants at the measurement date.
When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required or permitted to be either recorded or disclosed at fair value, we consider the most advantageous market in which it would transact and assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.
Our marketable securities, other than warrants and equity securities, are classified as available-for-sale and are reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, reported in stockholders’ equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income or loss.
Equity securities are reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses resulting from adjustments to fair value reported within our consolidated statements of operations.
As of February 13, 2019, we used Level 3 inputs to determine the fair value of our contingent consideration and common stock purchase warrants related to the purchase of LuxeMark (see Note 12 - Acquisitions).
The Company used a Monte Carlo simulation technique to value the performance-based contingent consideration and common stock purchase warrants.
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of the Content Delivery business and other related assets to Vecima pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement (the “CDN APA”), dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima for a purchase price of $29,000 (subject to an adjustment for net working capital).
Results associated with the Content Delivery business are classified within income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
During the nine months ended March 31, 2019, we provided $4,750 of cash advances to an aviation business to fund the deposit required for the recipient’s aircraft purchases for up to six months, in exchange for paying us an upfront fee and a guaranty of the full repayment obligation from the principal of the third-party business.
These prepaid fees are netted against the principal balance, earned over the six-month advance period and are reported as part of MCA income within the statement of operations.
For the state of Georgia tax credit, we have recorded the credit within both other current assets and other long-term assets, net with an offset in both accrued expenses and other long-term liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets as of March 31, 2019 and June 30, 2018.
Accordingly, the tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed were recorded at their estimated fair value as of the date of acquisition, with the residual purchase price recorded as goodwill.
Acquisition costs of $289 were expensed in the period incurred and are included in acquisition-related costs as general and administrative operating expenses in the Company’s consolidated statement of operations.
The fair value of common stock purchase warrants issued as part of the Purchase Agreement entitles the holders to purchase from the Company an aggregate amount of 444,361 common shares once vested.
The amounts of LMCS’s revenue and earnings included in the Company's consolidated statement of operations for the nine months ended March 31, 2019, and the revenue and earnings of the combined entity had the acquisition date been July 1, 2017, are as follows.
The purchase accounting is provisional as the Company continues to evaluate the fair value of the contingent consideration transferred, intangible assets acquired as of the acquisition date, and any related current and deferred taxes.
Under the terms of the Management Agreement, in addition to a cash payment to compensate CIDM for expenses incurred in connection with providing these services, the Company will pay for these services through the issuance of cash-settled stock appreciation rights (“SARs”) in respect of Company common stock resulting in no cash payment to CIDM unless and until there are certain qualifying changes of control of the Company (which does not include any change of control related to the stock ownership of CIDM or its affiliates).
The Asset Manager has the ability to earn a management fee calculated based on the value of our total assets which may create incentive for the Asset Manager to invest, to the extent permitted by our investment policy, in investments with higher yield potential, that are generally riskier or more speculative, or sell an investment prematurely for a gain, in an effort to increase our short-term net income and thereby increase the fee to which it is entitled.
If our interests and those of the Asset Manager are not aligned, the execution of our business plan and results of operations could be adversely affected, which could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock.
In addition, the Asset Manager assists with the Company’s identification of target businesses and assets for acquisition.
The Asset Manager may identify target operating businesses and assets that would be appropriate for acquisition by us and other entities managed by the Asset Manager and, after consideration of relevant factors, the Asset Manager may determine the target opportunity is more suitable for us or a different entity.
The Asset Manager has flexibility, within the broad parameters of our investment guidelines, in determining the types and amounts of investments in which to invest on our behalf, including making investments that may result in returns that are substantially below expectations or in losses, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results.


item2.txt
The Asset Management Committee, among other things, continues the work of the former Investment Committee by providing oversight of the Company’s acquisition process and also manages the Company’s ongoing operations and assets (including continued expansion and development of its real estate and merchant cash advance (“MCA”) operations) and those of any subsequently acquired businesses.
As consideration under the Purchase Agreement, at closing LMCS paid LuxeMark $1.2 million and issued warrants that will allow the three current LuxeMark principals to purchase up to an aggregate of 444,361 shares of the Company’s common stock, with vesting dependent upon LMCS achieving certain performance levels.
We generated $0.6 million of income from MCAs during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and expect to fund additional MCAs in the remaining quarter of our fiscal year 2019.
Furthermore, we earned $0.2 million of syndication fee income from sourcing syndication capital for the MCA industry during the latter half of the third fiscal quarter of our fiscal year 2019, as a result of our purchase of the LuxeMark operating assets.
We incurred $0.1 million of these business development costs during the three months ended March 31, 2019, which are reported as part of our corporate operating expenses.
As a result, our MCA operations segment incurred $0.1 million of sales and marketing expenses during the latter half of the third fiscal quarter of our fiscal year 2019.
·a $0.3 million decrease in salaries and professional services expenses incurred in the prior year three-month period primarily attributable to the post-close reporting and transition activities for the sale of the Content Delivery business in December 2017.
In the latter half of our fiscal year 2018, we began investing a portion of our business sale proceeds in equity securities, some of which declared and paid dividends during the three months ended March 31, 2019.
During the third quarter of our fiscal year 2019, we sold investments in certain debt and equity securities for which we recognized $0.5 million realized gains for the three months ended March 31, 2019.
Our income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 includes certain expenses related to the sale of the Content Delivery business for that period, as further described in Note 3, “Discontinued Operations,” to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.
We generated $0.8 million of income from MCAs during the nine months ended March 31, 2019 and expect to fund additional MCAs in the remaining quarter of our fiscal year 2019.
Furthermore, we earned $0.2 million of syndication fee income from sourcing syndication capital for the MCA industry during the latter half of the third fiscal quarter of our fiscal year 2019, as a result of our purchase of the LuxeMark operating assets.
We incurred $0.1 million of these business development costs during the nine months ended March 31, 2019, which are reported as part of our corporate operating expenses.
As a result, our MCA operations segment incurred $0.1 million of sales and marketing expenses during the latter half of the third fiscal quarter of our fiscal year 2019.
·a $1.9 million decrease in stock-based compensation expense, primarily resulting from the change of control triggered by the sale of the Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017; 
·a $0.8 million decrease in bonuses due primarily to the non-recurring bonuses paid in the nine months ended March 31, 2018 for the completion of the sale of the Content Delivery business, and secondarily for annual incentive plan bonuses for operating results for the first half of our fiscal year 2018; 
Partially offsetting these decreases in expenses, we incurred $0.3 million of incremental legal and accounting fees in the nine months ended March 31, 2019 in connection with the consummation of the LuxeMark transaction.
In the latter half of our fiscal year 2018 we began investing a portion of our business sale proceeds in equity securities, some of which declared and paid dividends during the nine months ended March 31, 2019.
In the first and third quarters of our fiscal year 2019, we sold investments in certain debt and equity securities for which we recognized $0.7 million of realized gains for the nine months ended March 31, 2019.
Our income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, for the nine months ended March 31, 2018 includes the financial results of the Content Delivery business for that period, which is further described in Note 3, “Discontinued Operations,” to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.
We generated $0.5 million and used $7.6 million of cash for operating activities during the nine months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Operating cash flows during the nine months ending March 31, 2018 were primarily attributable to the timing of payments made against our accounts payable to settle the previous period’s transaction costs related to the sale of our Real-Time business in our fiscal year 2017, inventory purchases and accrued compensation, coupled with losses from continuing operations.
During the nine months ended March 31, 2019, we funded $7.5 million of commercial loans, most of which were mortgage loans through our real estate operating subsidiary.
Additionally, in January 2018, as a result of the acceleration of vesting of substantially all of our previously unvested restricted stock triggered by the sale of our Content Delivery business, we paid $0.3 million of previously accrued dividends in January 2018.
Based upon our existing cash balances, equity securities and available-for-sale-term investments, historical cash usage, and anticipated operating cash flow in the current fiscal year, we believe that existing U.S. cash balances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated working capital requirements for at least the next 12 months from the issuance date of this report.


part2.txt
Our ability to achieve investment and business objectives will be impacted by the performance of the Asset Manager and its ability to provide us with asset management and other services.
If, for any reason, the Asset Manager is unable to perform such services at the level we require, our business operations and financial performance may be adversely affected.
If our interests and those of the Asset Manager are not aligned, the execution of our business plan and results of operations could be adversely affected, which could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock.
The Management Agreement requires the Asset Manager to act in a fair and reasonable manner in allocating investment and trading opportunities among our account and any other account managed by the Asset Manager or any of its affiliates.
While the Asset Manager is required to provide reporting of transactions undertaken on our behalf, those transactions may be costly, difficult, or impossible to unwind by the time they are reviewed by the Board of Directors.
The Asset Manager has flexibility, within the broad parameters of our investment guidelines, in determining the types and amounts of investments in which to invest on our behalf, including making investments that may result in returns that are substantially below expectations or in losses, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results.
Over the last few years, as the MCA industry has been able to cover a significant gap in the availability of immediate funding for small merchant businesses, state and federal regulators have become more interested in learning the industry and exploring whether additional laws and regulations are needed to manage this evolving industry.
10.3   Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of February 13, 2019, by and among LuxeMark Capital, LLC, LM Capital Solutions, LLC, Avraham Zeines, Oskar Kowalski and Kamil Blaszczak (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 14, 2019 (File No. 001-37706)).
10.4   Management Agreement, dated as of February 14, 2019, between CCUR Holdings, Inc. and CIDM LLC (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 14, 2019 (File No. 001-37706)).
10.6   First Amendment to Management Agreement by and between CCUR Holdings, Inc. and CIDM LLC dated as of May 8, 2019 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 9, 2019).


