fls.txt
Actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements.
Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section below entitled “Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,” in the section below entitled “Item 1A.
Statements regarding future events and developments, our future performance, payment of dividends, ability to utilize our net deferred tax assets and availability of earnings and profits with respect to dividend income, as well as our expectations, beliefs, plans, estimates or projections relating to the future and current assessments of business opportunities, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of these laws.
Examples of our forward-looking statements in this report include, but are not limited to, the ability of the Board of Directors and Asset Management Committee to identify suitable business opportunities and acquisition targets and the Company’s ability to consummate transactions with such acquisition targets; our ability to successfully develop our real estate and merchant cash advance operations, the impact of any strategic initiatives we may undertake; the impact of the current reestablishment of and potential for future release of our tax valuation allowances on future income tax provisions and income taxes paid; expected level of capital additions; our expected cash position; the impact of interest rate changes and fluctuation in currency exchange rates; our sufficiency of cash; and the impact of litigation and the payment of any declared dividends.
All forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events to differ materially from those projected.
The risks and uncertainties which could affect our financial condition or results of operations include, without limitation: the process of evaluating strategic alternatives; the Company’s ability to compete with experienced investors in the acquisition of one or more additional businesses, our ability to utilize our net operating losses to offset cash taxes, in general, and in the event of an ownership change as defined by the Internal Revenue Service; changes in and related uncertainties caused by changes in applicable tax laws, the current macroeconomic environment generally and with respect to acquisitions and the financing thereof; continuing unevenness of the global economic recovery; the availability of debt or equity financing to support any liquidity needs; global terrorism; and earthquakes, tsunamis, floods and other natural disasters.


item1.txt
During the first quarter of our fiscal year 2019 we created Recur Holdings LLC (“Recur”), a Delaware limited liability company wholly owned by the Company.
These loans are reported on the balance sheet at the outstanding principal balance adjusted for any charge-offs, allowance for loan losses, and deferred fees or costs.
When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required or permitted to be either recorded or disclosed at fair value, we consider the most advantageous market in which it would transact and assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.
·Level 3 Assets or liabilities for which fair value is based on valuation models with significant unobservable pricing inputs and which include the use of management estimates.
We used Level 3 inputs to determine the fair value of our preferred stock investments.
We also use Level 3 inputs to determine the fair value of our contingent consideration and common stock purchase warrants related to the LuxeMark Acquisition.
The Company uses a Monte Carlo simulation technique to value the performance-based contingent consideration and common stock purchase warrants.
In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2016-02, Leases (“ASU 2016-02”), on the recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet.
The new guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years.
The new guidance changes the current accounting guidance related to the recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities.
This guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018 and interim periods therein, with early adoption permitted.
The recent accounting guidance not yet adopted is consistent with the information provided in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019.
During the first three months of our fiscal year 2020 we loaned an additional $2,750,000 to the same MCA originator with the same terms as the loans issued in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year 2019.
These commercial loans have two-year terms and interest is charged at a rate of 17.0% per annum on the outstanding balances.
During the three months ended September 30, 2019, we provided $3,000,000 of cash advances to an aviation business to fund the deposit required for the recipient’s aircraft purchases for up to one month, in exchange for paying us an upfront fee and a guaranty of the full repayment obligation from the principal of the third-party business.
These prepaid fees are netted against the principal balance, earned over the one-month advance period, and are reported as part of MCA income within the statement of operations.
Under the plan, the Compensation Committee may award stock options and shares of common stock on a restricted basis.
The plan also specifically provides for stock appreciation rights and authorizes the Compensation Committee to provide, either at the time of the grant of an option or otherwise, that the option may be cashed out upon terms and conditions to be determined by the Compensation Committee or the Board of Directors.
Option awards are granted with an exercise price equal to the market price of our stock at the date of grant.
We recognize stock compensation expense in accordance with ASC 718-10 over the requisite service period of the individual grantees, which generally equals the vesting period.
We recorded $99,000 and $59,000 to general and administrative expense for stock-based compensation related to the issuance of stock options and restricted stock to employees and board members during the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
As of September 30, 2019, we had 167,500 service-condition restricted stock awards outstanding, of which none had vested, at a weighted-average grant date fair value of $4.15.
Stock-based compensation expense for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 resulted from vesting of shares over their respective vesting periods.
Total remaining compensation cost of restricted stock awards issued but not yet vested as of September 30, 2019 is $369,000, which is expected to be recognized over the weighted average period of 2.3 years.
As of September 30, 2019, we had 15,000 stock options outstanding, of which 5,000 options had vested and were exercisable, at a weighted-average exercise price of $5.42, with a weighted-average remaining contractual term of 8.64 years.
The total intrinsic value of options both outstanding and exercisable was nil for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018.
Total remaining compensation cost of stock options granted, but not yet vested, at September 30, 2019 is $8,000, which is expected to be recognized over the weighted average remaining period of 1.4 years.
During the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, there were no exercises of stock options.
Operating lease cost is reported as part of general and administrative expenses on the consolidated statement of operations.
Sublease income is reported as a reduction of general and administrative expenses on the consolidated statement of operations.
Operating cash flows from leases are reported as part of net income on the consolidated statement of cash flows.
Right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for new operating lease liabilities are reported as part of other long-term assets on the consolidated balance sheet.
The short-term portions of the operating lease liabilities are reported as part of accounts payable and accrued expenses on the consolidated balance sheet.
The long-term portions of the operating lease liabilities are reported as part of other long-term liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet.
The total lease liability on the balance sheet as of September 30, 2019 is $499,000.
In February 2019, the Company entered into a management agreement (as amended, the “Management Agreement”) with CIDM LLC (“CIDM” or the “Asset Manager”) under which CIDM provides consulting services and advice to the Board of Directors and the Company’s management regarding asset allocation and acquisition strategy.
Under the terms of the Management Agreement, in addition to a quarterly cash payment to compensate CIDM for expenses incurred in connection with providing these services, the Company pays for these services through the issuance of cash-settled stock appreciation rights (“SARs”).
Based on the terms of the SARs and the Management Agreement, CIDM may not exercise the SARs unless there are certain qualifying changes of control of the Company (which does not include any change of control related to the stock ownership of CIDM or its affiliates).
Based upon the Company’s total assets as of September 30, 2019, we expect to issue an additional 87,997 SARs to CIDM during the second quarter of our fiscal year 2020.


item2.txt
During the three months ended September 30, 2019, we generated $1.7 million of total revenue, compared to $0.1 million in the quarter ended September 30, 2018, driven largely by the growth in our participation in the MCA industry.
This increase was attributable largely to an increase in our income before income tax driven by our MCA operations and our investments in certain debt and equity securities.
We generated $1.7 million of revenue from MCA operations during the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to $0 in the during the three months ended September 30, 2018.
We generated $0.1 million of revenue from real estate operations during the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to $0.1 million during the three months ended September 30, 2018.
General and administrative expenses were $1.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019, a $0.2 million, or 23%, increase from the three months ended September 30, 2018.
Salaries attributable to our MCA operations accounted for $0.1 million of the increase, as we did not have MCA operations in the prior year period.
The remaining $0.1 million increase was due to corporate salaries from additional headcount and financial performance bonuses accrued during the three months ended September 30, 2019.
During the three months ended September 30, 2019, we recorded $10 thousand of incremental expenses related to our estimated contingent consideration payments to Old LuxeMark.
During the three months ended September 30, 2019, $0.2 million was provided for losses, based on the dollar amount of new MCAs that we entered into and mix of funders who we funded through.
We did not record a provision for credit losses during the three months ended September 30, 2018 because we did not fund any MCAs during that period.
Other interest income for the three months ended September 30, 2019 increased by $1.3 million, or 142.8%, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018, due to higher yields on incremental investments in debt securities since September 30, 2019 and accretion of any discounts on these securities.
Dividend income decreased by $43 thousand during the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to the same period of the prior year, due to our sale of some of our dividend yielding equity securities since September 30, 2018.
During the three months ended September 30, 2019, we sold investments in certain equity securities for which we recognized $1.1 million of net realized gains, as compared to $0.2 million of realized gains on the sale of certain equity and debt securities during the same period in the prior year.
Unrealized Gain (Loss) on Equity Securities, Net. During the three months ended September 30, 2019, we reported unrealized gain on equity securities, net, of $0.5 million, compared to a loss of $0.5 million during the three months ended September 30, 2018.
We generated $0.5 million and used $0.1 million of cash for operating activities during the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Operating cash generated during the three months ended September 30, 2019 was primarily attributable to positive net income, adjusted for non-cash items, partially offset by timing of collection of interest income.
Operating cash usage during the three months ended September 30, 2018 was primarily attributable to operating costs during the period exceeding cash generating income, as approximately $0.5 million of our income for the period was from non-cash accretion and PIK interest.
During the three months ended September 30, 2019 we generated $0.1 million of cash, net, from investing activities.
Our net cash inflows were primarily driven by collecting more merchant payments than we redeployed to fund advances to merchants, resulting in $1.6 million of net cash inflows from MCAs during the period.
Additionally, we generated net cash from debt and equity securities as we liquidated $0.8 million more in debt and equity securities than we invested during the three months ended September 30, 2019.
Partially offsetting the net cash inflows from MCAs, debt and equity securities, we funded $2.0 million more in mortgage and commercial loans than we collected during the period, primarily attributable to new loans that we made to funders in the MCA industry.
Remaining investing cash outflows during the three months ended September 30, 2019 resulted from our purchase of land parcels for development and resale.
During the three months ended September 30, 2018, we originated $1.8 million of short-term mortgage loans through Recur, of which $1.4 million was on deposit with an escrow agent at the end of the prior fiscal year.
Additionally, we provided a $2.0 million cash advance to an aviation business to fund the deposit required for the recipient’s aircraft purchases for up to six months, in exchange for paying us an upfront fee.
Our remaining investing activities consisted of $1.6 million in purchases and $6.2 million in maturities or sales of debt and equity securities for the purpose of funding our operating expenses as we continued to evolve our real estate operating business and actively search for additional operating businesses to acquire.
Based upon our existing cash balances, equity securities, and available-for-sale investments, historical cash usage, and anticipated operating cash flow in the current fiscal year, we believe that existing U.S. cash balances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated working capital requirements for at least the next 12 months from the issuance date of this report.


part2.txt
Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds 


