item1.txt
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our content delivery and storage business (the “Content Delivery business”) and other related assets to Vecima Networks, Inc.
The amendments contained in ASU 2017-01 are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017 and may be early adopted for certain transactions that have occurred before the effective date, but only when the underlying transaction has not been reported in the financial statements that have been issued or made available for issuance.
Due to the loss from continuing operations for all periods presented, common share equivalents of 315,771 and 267,481 for the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and common share equivalents of 322,570 and 265,845 for the six months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively,were excluded from the calculation as their effect was anti-dilutive.
As noted above, on December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our Content Delivery business and other related assets to Vecima pursuant to an Asset Purchase agreement, dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima (the “CDN APA”) for a purchase price of $29,000 (subject to an adjustment for net working capital).
The sale included our Content Delivery business assets and related liabilities in the United States, United Kingdom, and Germany, as well as the sale of all equity in our Japanese subsidiary.
Additionally, we may receive additional consideration, or be required to return a portion of the consideration received on the closing date, based on a final determination of the Content Delivery business’ net working capital as of the closing date.
Subsequent to December 31, 2017, based on our estimate of the working capital of the Content Delivery business as of the closing date, calculated in accordance with the procedures set forth in the CDN APA, we have accrued our estimate of the final post-closing working capital adjustment within our current liabilities on our December 31, 2017 balance sheet, to be paid by us to Vecima during the latter half of our fiscal year 2018.
Results associated with the Content Delivery business are classified within income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, in our condensed consolidated statements of operations.
As a result, the Company recognized expense of approximately $1,745 in share-based compensation expense due to the acceleration of the vesting and the lapse of restrictions on substantially all restricted stock granted under our Amended and Restated 2011 Stock Incentive Plan (see Note 7 – Share-based Compensation).
In connection with the sale of our Content Delivery business (1) we entered into a Separation and Consulting Agreement and General Release of Claims with Derek Elder, our former President and Chief Executive Officer, as a result of which (A) Mr. Elder’s role as president and chief executive officer was terminated, (B) Mr. Elder ceased to be a member of our Board of Directors and all committees thereof, and (C) we recorded severance related expenses of $544 pursuant to his Separation and Consulting Agreement (see Note 12 – Commitments and Contingencies – Separation of Chief Executive Officer), (2) we terminated the employment of another executive of the Company and recorded severance expenses of $132, (3) we paid transaction bonuses that had previously been approved by our compensation committee of $479 to internal executives and staff and (4) we accepted the resignation of an independent director of the Company (see Note 12 – Commitments and Contingencies – Resignation of Directors).
All of the above expenses are included in general and administrative expenses of continuing operations in our condensed consolidated statement of operations for the three and six months ended December 31, 2017.
On May 15, 2017, we completed the sale and transfer of certain assets and certain liabilities primarily related to our Real-Time business pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement (the “RT APA”) dated as of May 15, 2017 with Real Time, Inc.
For both the three and six months ended December 31, 2017, the domestic tax expense is lower than the prior year primarily due to the favorable impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (enacted on December 22, 2017) on the realizability of our alternative minimum tax credits and lower domestic income as compared to the same periods from the prior year.
As a result of the recognition of a taxable gain on the sale of our Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017, we utilized approximately $17,203 of our federal NOLs during the six months ended December 31, 2017.
For the state of Georgia tax credit, we have recorded the credit within both other current assets and other long-term assets with an offset in both accrued expenses and other long-term liabilities in our condensed consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2017 and June 30, 2017.
At our 2016 Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on October 26, 2016, our stockholders adopted a formal amendment to our certificate of incorporation (the “Protective Amendment”) to deter any person acquiring 4.9% or more of the outstanding Common Stock without the approval of our Board in order to protect the value of our NOLs. The Protective Amendment was extended by our stockholders at our 2017 Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on October 25, 2017 and will expire on the earliest of (i) the Board of Directors’ determination that the Protective Amendment is no longer necessary for the preservation of the Company’s NOLs because of the amendment or repeal of Section 382 or any successor statute, (ii) the close of business on the first day of any taxable year of CCUR Holdings to which the Board of Directors determines that none of our NOLs may be carried forward (iii) such date as the Board of Directors otherwise determines that the Protective Amendment is no longer necessary for the preservation of the Company’s NOLs and (iv) the date of our Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held during calendar year 2018.
The Consent and Limited Waiver provides that so long as (i) the Investor Group collectively beneficially own no more than 24.9% of the outstanding shares of common stock of the Company and (ii) any acquisition of common stock of the Company by the Investor Group would not reasonably be expected to actually limit the Company’s ability to utilize the Company’s net operating loss carryforwards under applicable United States, state, or foreign tax laws, the Company shall not deem the Investor Group to have effected a Prohibited Transfer as that term is defined in the Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation.
In conjunction with the sale of our Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017 (see Note 4 – Discontinued Operations), substantially all of the previously non-vested restricted stock awards (including 50,000 performance-based restricted stock awards) were accelerated to vest as a result of a change of control as determined by our Board of Directors resulting in share-based compensation expense of $1,745 for the three months ending December 31, 2017.
Additionally, one of our independent directors resigned from the Board of Directors, effective on December 31, 2017 (see Note 12 – Commitments and Contingencies – Resignation of Directors) and we accelerated the vesting of 7,500 shares of previously non-vested restricted stock held by that director.
All remaining share-based compensation expense for the three and six month periods ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 resulted from vesting of shares over their respective vesting periods.
As a result of the sale of our Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017 (see Note 4 – Discontinued Operations) and the acceleration of vesting of substantially all of the previously non-vested restricted stock awards, substantially all of our accrued dividends payable are classified as a currently payable as of December 31, 2017.
In the event of the CFO’s termination without “due cause” (as defined in the Employment Agreement), he will be entitled to receive a severance package consisting of (i) salary continuation payments for a period of twelve (12) months from the date of such termination at his most recent salary rate, (ii) the amount, if any, paid as an annual bonus in the year preceding termination, and (iii) COBRA continuation coverage under the Company’s hospitalization and medical plan and for the 12-month period following termination, he and his eligible dependents at the time of termination will be eligible to continue coverage at the same premium charged to active employees.
Pursuant to the First Amendment, if within one year after a “change of control” the CFO’s employment is terminated by the Company (other than for Due Cause, death or Continuing Disability), subject to executing an irrevocable release, the CFO will be entitled to receive a severance package consisting of (i) salary continuation payments for a period of twelve (12) months from the date of such termination, at his most recent salary rate, (ii) the amount, if any, paid as an annual bonus in the year preceding his termination and (iii) COBRA continuation coverage under the Company’s hospitalization and medical plan and for the 12-month period following termination he and his eligible dependents at the time of termination will be eligible to continue coverage at the same premium charged to active employees.
In connection with these resignations, we agreed to accelerate the vesting of 5,400 shares of restricted stock held by each of the resigning directors (including an aggregate of $7 of accrued dividends released upon the acceleration of the vesting of the restricted stock), and to make a one-time payment to each of the resigning directors of $52, which includes unpaid meeting fees through the date of resignation.
Pursuant to the Consulting Agreement, Spartan will provide consulting services to us as reasonably requested by the Board of Directors, which services shall include identifying and presenting investment opportunities to the Company within the parameters provided by the Board from time to time.
Any transaction bonus payable to Spartan will equal the sum of (i) 1% of the total consideration paid by us for the Sourced Business in the Sourced Transaction and (ii) 7.5% of the “Net Asset Value” (as defined in the Consulting Agreement) of any subsequent sale of the Sourced Business by the Company.
On January 4, 2018, we received a letter from the Listing Qualifications Department of The Nasdaq Stock Market notifying us that it believes that we no longer have an operating business following the closing of the sale of the Content Delivery business assets and as a consequence the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Department considers us a “public shell” under Nasdaq criteria.
During the pendency of the Company’s appeal of the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Department’s determination, the Board of Directors of the Company and its subcommittee constituted by the Board of Directors to evaluate options to maximize the value of our remaining assets (the “Investment Committee”) will continue to evaluate options to maximize the value of the Company’s assets, including opportunities to invest in or acquire one or more operating businesses that provide opportunities for appreciation in value.
In his capacity as CEO and President, Mr. Barr shall perform, on a consultant basis, the senior executive officer and managerial job duties customary to such position, in light of the Company’s post-sale structure and as necessary to the operations of the Company and other duties as may be assigned from time to time by the Board.
Upon (i) the Board’s termination of Mr. Barr’s service as CEO and President of the Company, which shall not include termination based on (a) Mr. Barr’s resignation unless such resignation is in conjunction with or conditioned on the Company’s purchase of a significant operating asset or a sale or merger of the Company or (b) the Board’s finding of Due Cause or (ii) upon a “change of control” as defined in the Stock Plan, the Granted Stock Option shall accelerate and become immediately vested and exercisable.
The term "Due Cause", as used herein, shall mean that (a) Mr. Barr has committed a willful serious act, such as (but not limited to) embezzlement, against the Company intended to enrich himself at the expense of the Company or has been convicted of a felony, or of a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; (b) Mr. Barr has (i) willfully or grossly neglected his duties hereunder, (ii) committed a material violation of the Company’s policies or procedures, or (iii) intentionally failed to observe specific lawful directives or policies of the Board of Directors; (c) Mr. Barr undertook to provide any chief executive officer certification required under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ("Sarbanes-Oxley Act") without taking reasonable and appropriate steps as outlined by the Company’s audit committee to determine whether the certification was accurate; or (d) Mr. Barr’s failure to fulfill any of his duties under, or violation of any provision of, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, including, but not limited to, failure to establish and administer effectively systems and controls as outlined by the Company’s audit committee necessary for compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
Furthermore, we may have unforeseen liabilities and expenses that must be satisfied from the after-tax net proceeds of the Content Delivery business sale, leaving less to fund our remaining operations.
In addition, $2 million of the purchase price payable by the RT Purchaser at closing of the sale of the Real-Time business was placed into escrow and remains subject to loss, in whole or in part, if the RT Purchaser successfully asserts claims for indemnification pursuant to the indemnification provisions of the Real-Time APA.
Our Board of Directors has instructed the Investment Committee to evaluate options to maximize the value of our remaining assets, including identifying potential opportunities to invest in or acquire one or more operating businesses that provide opportunities for appreciation in value.
The process to identify potential investment opportunities and acquisition targets, to investigate and evaluate the future returns therefrom and business prospects thereof and to negotiate definitive agreements with respect to such transactions on mutually acceptable terms can be time consuming and costly.
We are likely to encounter intense competition from other companies with similar business objectives to ours, including private equity and venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds, investment firms with significantly greater financial and other resources and operating businesses competing for acquisitions.
We will be unable to compete with the Content Delivery business or the Real-Time business for a period of three years after the date of the closing of the sale of each respective business.
·own, manage, operate, assist, invest in or acquire any person or entity that competes with the Content Delivery business or the Real-Time business (except for ownership of 5% or less of the outstanding securities of a publicly traded entity).
As of December 31, 2017, and as of the date hereof, we are not a shell company under federal securities laws because we have material GAAP assets other than cash and cash equivalents, including, as of the date hereof, (i) $3.45 million in escrow receivables related to the escrow agreements we entered into in connection the sale of the Real-Time business and Content Delivery business, (ii) $7.97 million in securities that are classified as short-term investments under GAAP, and (iii) State tax credits receivables and various other prepaid assets.
If the escrow agreements terminate and the portion of the escrow funds not used to satisfy indemnification obligations of the company to the RT Purchaser and Vecima are released to us prior to the company’s consummation of a transaction with an acquisition target, our only remaining material GAAP assets other than cash and cash equivalents will be short-term investments.
If the Company is required to liquidate its short-term investments under such circumstances prior to the acquisition of an operating business, we may be considered a shell company under the federal securities laws.
Applicable securities rules prohibit shell companies from using (i) a Form S-8 registration statement to register securities pursuant to employee compensation plans for so long as we are a shell company and for a period of 60 days thereafter and (ii) Form S-3 for the registration of securities for so long as we are a shell company and for 12 months thereafter.


item2.txt
Having divested both our Real-Time and Content Delivery businesses, we are now in the process of evaluating opportunities intended to maximize the value of our remaining assets, which consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, short term investments, escrow funds receivable, and approximately $ 56 million in U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards.
This increase was primarily due to (1) $1.8 million in share-based compensation expenses resulting from the acceleration of vesting of restricted share awards due to the sale of our Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017 (2) $0.9 million in severance related to our former CEO and another employee, and (3) $0.5 million in bonuses related to the completion of the sale of our Content Delivery business.
Following the close of the Content Delivery business during the three months ended December 31, 2017, which generated the aforementioned one-time transaction costs, we anticipate our operating expenses to be significantly lower in remaining quarters of our fiscal year 2018.
Other income, net increased in the current period relative to the prior period due to our increase in cash and short-term investments as a result of the sale of our Real-Time business in May 2017.
As a result, the $22.7 million of income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes includes a $22.6 gain on the sale of our Content Delivery business during the three months ended December 31, 2017.
This increase was primarily due to (1) $1.8 million in share-based compensation expenses resulting from the acceleration of vesting of restricted share awards due to the sale of our Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017 (2) $0.9 million in severance related to our former CEO and another employee, and (3) $0.5 million in bonuses related to the completion of the sale of our Content Delivery business.
Following the close of the Content Delivery business during the six months ended December 31, 2017, which generated the aforementioned one-time transaction costs, we anticipate our operating expenses to be significantly lower in remaining quarters of our fiscal year 2018.
Other income, net increased in the current period relative to the prior period due to our increase in cash and short-term investments as a result of the sale of our Real-Time business in May 2017.
As a result, the $23.0 million of income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes includes a $22.6 gain on the sale of our Content Delivery business during the three months ended December 31, 2017.
We used $3.6 million and generated $1.6 million of cash from operating activities during the six months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
Operating cash flows during the six months ending December 31, 2017 were primarily attributable the timing of payments made against our accounts payable to settle the previous quarter’s transaction costs related to the sale of our Real-Time business, inventory purchases and accrued compensation.
Operating cash flows during the six months ended December 31, 2016 were primarily attributable to the collection of accounts receivable for sales shipped late in the prior year, offset by the current period net loss and the timing of payments made against our accounts payable to settle the previous year’s inventory purchase and other obligations.
Based upon our existing cash balances and short-term investments, historical cash usage, and anticipated operating cash flow in the current fiscal year, we believe that existing U.S. cash balances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated working capital requirements for at least the next 12 months.


part2.txt
In addition, $2 million of the purchase price payable by the RT Purchaser at closing of the sale of the Real-Time business was placed into escrow and remains subject to loss, in whole or in part, if the RT Purchaser successfully asserts claims for indemnification pursuant to the indemnification provisions of the Real-Time APA.
The process to identify potential investment opportunities and acquisition targets, to investigate and evaluate the future returns therefrom and business prospects thereof and to negotiate definitive agreements with respect to such transactions on mutually acceptable terms can be time consuming and costly.
We are likely to encounter intense competition from other companies with similar business objectives to ours, including private equity and venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds, investment firms with significantly greater financial and other resources and operating businesses competing for acquisitions.
We may have a limited ability to assess the management of a prospective target business and, as a result, may effect a business combination with a target business whose management may not have the skills, qualifications or abilities to manage a public company.
When evaluating the desirability of effecting a business combination with a prospective target business, our ability to assess the target business’s management may be limited due to a lack of time, resources or information.
Should the target’s management not possess the skills, qualifications or abilities necessary to manage a public company, the operations and profitability of the post-combination business may be negatively impacted.
We may engage in such acquisitions or make such investments where we desire the target management to continue to have a significant equity incentive to grow and ensure the profitability of the target business.
We may also make such acquisitions or investments where we do not have sufficient financial resources to acquire all of the equity in the target company or where the target has price requirements that we are unwilling to meet at the time of the acquisition or investment.
Our minority or less than 100% ownership subjects us to risks that we do not control the target company and its results of operations, business condition or prospects may be materially adversely impacted by the decisions of the other equity owners or the difficulty of negotiating among equity owners.
·own, manage, operate, assist, invest in or acquire any person or entity that competes with the Content Delivery business or the Real-Time business (except for ownership of 5% or less of the outstanding securities of a publicly traded entity).
As of December 31, 2017, and as of the date hereof, we are not a shell company under federal securities laws because we have material GAAP assets other than cash and cash equivalents, including, as of the date hereof, (i) $3.45 million in escrow receivables related to the escrow agreements we entered into in connection the sale of the Real-Time business and Content Delivery business, (ii) $7.97 million in securities that are classified as short-term investments under GAAP, and (iii) State tax credits receivables and various other prepaid assets.
If the escrow agreements terminate and the portion of the escrow funds not used to satisfy indemnification obligations of the company to the RT Purchaser and Vecima are released to us prior to the company’s consummation of a transaction with an acquisition target, our only remaining material GAAP assets other than cash and cash equivalents will be short-term investments.
If the Company is required to liquidate its short-term investments under such circumstances prior to the acquisition of an operating business, we may be considered a shell company under the federal securities laws.


