item1.txt
The most significant impact was the recognition, on a discounted basis, of right-of-use (ROU) assets totaling approximately $31.9 million and lease liabilities totaling approximately $34.2 million under non-cancelable operating leases as of January 1, 2019 and the related new required disclosures.
Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for those products or services.
The Company regularly enters into contracts that can include various combinations of products and services, which are generally capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations.
However, for certain contracts that include highly customized components, if performance does not create an asset with an alternative use and termination for convenience clauses provide an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, revenue is recognized over time as the performance obligation is satisfied.
The Company's products are sold with warranty provisions that require it to remedy deficiencies in quality or performance of the Company's products over a specified period of time, generally twelve to twenty-four months, at no cost to its customers.
See Note 19, "Operating Segments and Related Information - Revenue and Long-Lived Assets by Geographic Area" for information related to the Company’s revenues disaggregated by significant geographical region and operating segment.
The Company had no material deferred contract costs recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2019.
The Company has elected to exclude contracts with customers with an original term of one year or less from remaining performance obligations while these contracts are included within backlog.
The Company expects to recognize revenue on approximately 67 percent of the remaining performance obligations over the next twelve months, and the remainder recognized thereafter.
As of September 30, 2019, the Company had approximately $67.4 million of total unrecognized stock-based compensation costs, net of estimated forfeitures, to be recognized over a weighted average period of approximately two years.
The Company had $31.1 million and $200.0 million of cash equivalents at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively, which were primarily investments in money market funds and overnight deposits.
The Company has categorized its cash equivalents as a Level 1 financial asset, measured at fair value based on quoted prices in active markets of identical assets.
The fair value of the Company’s foreign currency contracts as of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, and the interest rate swap contract as of September 30, 2019 are disclosed in Note 6, "Derivative Financial Instruments," and are based on Level 2 inputs.
The fair value of the Company's borrowings under the Credit Agreement as described in Note 13, "Credit Agreement," as of September 30, 2019 approximates the carrying value.
The fair value of the Company’s senior unsecured notes as described in Note 14, "Long-Term Debt," is approximately $429.9 million and $418.8 million based upon Level 2 inputs at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.
The Company enters into foreign currency forward contracts not formally designated as hedges to manage the consolidated exchange rate risk associated with the remeasurement of non-functional currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities.
The floored swap is designated and effective as a cash flow hedge with individual swap cash flows recorded as an asset or liability in the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value.
The net fair value of the Company's floored swap was an unrealized loss of $2.3 million, which has been recorded in prepaid expenses and other current assets, other current liabilities and pension and other long-term liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2019.
Operating lease right-of-use assets ("ROU assets") represent the Company’s right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and operating lease liabilities represent the obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
As most of the leases do not provide an implicit rate, the Company uses its incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments.
The proceeds from the 2016 Notes were used to repay the principal amount of the notes outstanding in July 2016 and are being used for general corporate purposes, including working capital and capital expenditure needs, business acquisitions and repurchases of the Company’s common stock.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, the Company repurchased 2.5 million shares of the Company's common stock through open market transactions under the 2019 authorization.
The total cash payments for the repurchase of the Company's common stock during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 were $125.0 million.
On September 6, 2019, the Company paid a dividend of $0.17 per share on its outstanding common stock to the shareholders of record as of the close of business on August 23, 2019.
However, an unfavorable outcome could result in substantial fines and penalties or loss or suspension of export privileges or of particular authorizations that could be material to the Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows in and following the period in which such an outcome becomes estimable or known.
While there still remains uncertainty related to estimating the costs associated with a potential remedy and number of units which may require such remedy, the Company currently estimates the range of potential loss on remaining units to be between $5.0 million and $11.6 million.
As no single amount within the range is a better estimate than any other amount within the range, the Company has recorded an accrual of $5.0 million in other current liabilities as of September 30, 2019.
Pointing to the Company’s 2015 settlement with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission of alleged United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act violations and 2018 settlement with United States Department of State of alleged export control violations, the complaint alleges that the Company’s directors breached their fiduciary duties by failing to ensure that the Company had internal controls in place that would have prevented the alleged underlying misconduct and these settlements.
As of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the Company has accrued income tax liabilities of $42.9 million related to the transition tax enacted on December 22, 2017 as part of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Of the amounts accrued, none are expected to be due within one year.
As of September 30, 2019, the Company had approximately $13.3 million of unrecognized tax benefits, all of which would affect the Company’s effective tax rate if recognized.
The Company anticipates approximately $1.5 million of its net unrecognized tax benefits will be recognized within 12 months as the result of settlements or effective settlements with various tax authorities, the closure of certain audits and the lapse of the applicable statute of limitations.
As of September 30, 2019, the Company had $3.6 million of accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits that are recorded as current and non-current accrued income taxes on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Operating income as reviewed by the CODM is revenue less cost of goods sold and operating expenses, excluding general corporate expenses, amortization of purchased intangible assets, amortization of acquisition-related inventory step-up, loss on sale of a business and restructuring and other charges.
Acyclica, Inc. On September 10, 2018, the Company completed a transaction to acquire 100% of the outstanding stock of Acyclica, Inc., a privately held software developer for automotive roadway and intersection data generation and analysis for approximately $9.7 million, including an estimate for contingent consideration pursuant to the stock purchase agreement.
The Company finalized the purchase price allocation during the current quarter which had no change to the previously recorded allocation of $3.9 million of identified intangible assets and revised the allocation of goodwill to $7.0 million in the Commercial business unit.
On October 16, 2018, the Company acquired substantially all of the outstanding shares of SeaPilot AB, a privately held technology company for approximately $4.6 million in cash.
The Company finalized the purchase price allocation during the current quarter which had no change to the previously recorded allocation of $2.4 million of identified intangible assets and revised the allocation of goodwill to $3.0 million in the Commercial business unit.
Aeryon Labs Inc. On January 28, 2019, the Company completed its acquisition of 100% of the outstanding stock of Aeryon Labs Inc., a privately held developer of high-performance UAS for the global military, public safety, and critical infrastructure markets for approximately $205.9 million in cash.
Based on the Company's preliminary purchase price allocation, the Company recorded $44.3 million of identified intangible assets and $154.7 million of goodwill in the Government and Defense business unit during the quarter ended June 30, 2019.
Endeavor Robotics Holdings, Inc. On March 4, 2019, the Company completed its acquisition of 100% of the outstanding stock of Endeavor Robotics Holdings, Inc. a privately held developer of tactical unmanned ground vehicles for the global military, public safety, and critical infrastructure markets for approximately $385.9 million in cash.
Based on the Company's preliminary purchase price allocation, the Company recorded $102.7 million of intangible assets and $284.3 million of goodwill in the Government and Defense business unit during the quarter ended June 30, 2019.
Based on the Company's preliminary purchase price allocation, the Company recorded $6.4 million of identified intangible assets and $14.0 million of goodwill in the Industrial business unit in the current quarter.
The business acquisitions listed above are not significant as defined in Regulation S–X under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor are they significant compared to the Company's overall results of operations.
On February 6, 2018 the Company sold the Consumer and Small and Medium-sized ("SMB") Security businesses within the Commercial business unit for total cash consideration of approximately $28.8 million.
As a result of this combined sale, the Company recognized a total pre-tax loss of approximately $37.3 million (approximately $23.6 million in year ended December 31, 2017 and approximately $13.7 million in the year ended December 31, 2018).
This disposal did not qualify as discontinued operations and therefore, its operating results were included in the Company’s continuing operations for all periods presented through the date of the sale.
On October 17, 2019, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.17 per share on its common stock, payable on December 6, 2019, to shareholders of record as of the close of business on November 26, 2019.
See Note 17, “Contingencies” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Company’s legal proceedings.
Some of these factors recently have had an adverse impact on our sales and operations and increased our cost of doing business and subjected the business to additional rules, policies and procedures that impacted the operation of the Company.
Export licenses and other authorizations may be required from United States government agencies under the ITAR, the EAR, the Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) Regulations, the Trading with the Enemy Act of 1917, the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (“IEEPA”), the Arms Export Control Act of 1976 (“AECA”), and other similar laws and regulations for the sale, use and export of many of our products and related data and services.
The United States Government’s export reform effort resulted in the transition of various Company products from the USML to the CCL, shifting the licensing requirements and restrictions for products regulated by the Department of Commerce under the EAR.
Further, a variety of technological tools and systems, including both company-owned information technology and technological services provided by outside parties, support our critical functions.
Moreover, if a security breach of our information technology system affects our computer systems or results in the release of personally identifiable or other sensitive information of customers, business partners, employees and other third parties, our reputation and brand could be materially damaged, use of our products and services could decrease, and we could be exposed to a risk of loss, litigation and potential liability.


item2.txt
Consolidated revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2019, increased by 8.4 percent year over year, from $434.9 million in the third quarter of 2018 to $471.2 million in the third quarter of 2019.
Consolidated revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 increased by 5.3 percent year over year, from $1,327.2 million in the first nine months of 2018 to $1,398.0 million in the first nine months of 2019.
Increases in revenues for the nine month period were primarily driven by increases in our Government and Defense business unit as noted above, partially offset by declines in our Commercial business unit as a result of the divestiture of the Consumer and Small and Medium-sized ("SMB") Security businesses as announced in February 2018 and volume declines in the Maritime and Outdoor and Tactical Systems ("OTS") businesses.
Industrial business unit revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2019 was flat compared to the same period of 2018.
Industrial business unit revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 increased by 1.6 percent, compared to the same period of 2018.
The increases in earnings from operations and corresponding operating margin for the three and nine month periods ended September 30, 2019, compared to the same periods of 2018, were predominately attributable to favorable product mix led by the OEM business and productivity initiatives to improve manufacturing efficiency and decrease product costs across all divisions.
Government and Defense business unit revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2019 increased by 24.1 percent compared to the same period of 2018.
Government and Defense business unit revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 increased by 18.7 percent compared to the same period of 2018.
Earnings from operations increased 4.5 percent for the three months ended September 30, 2019 compared to same period in 2018 and increased 5.4 percent for the nine month period ended 
The increase in revenue and earnings from operations for the three and nine month periods ended September 30, 2019, compared to the same periods of 2018, was primarily driven by the Aeryon and Endeavor acquisitions during the first quarter of 2019 and increased volumes of UAS products and surveillance systems.
Operating margins declined for the three and nine month periods ended September 30, 2019, compared to same periods of 2018, due to the inclusion of the operating losses from the same acquisitions noted above.
Commercial business unit revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2019 decreased by 5.3 percent compared to the same period of 2018.
Commercial business unit revenue for the nine month period ended September 30, 2019 decreased by 10.0 percent compared to the same period of 2018.
The decrease in both revenue and earnings from operations and corresponding operating margin for the three month period ended September 30, 2019 compared to the same period of 2018 is primarily attributed to volume declines in our Maritime and OTS businesses.
The decrease in both revenue and earnings from operations and corresponding operating margin for the nine month period ended September 30, 2019 compared to the same period of 2018 is also attributed to volume declines in those same businesses as well as the divestiture of our Consumer and SMB Security business during the first quarter of 2018.
The decrease in cash and cash equivalents during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, was primarily due to cash used for business acquisitions of $601.9 million, common stock repurchases of $125.0 million, dividend payments of $68.9 million, and capital expenditures of $32.0 million, partially offset by cash provided from operations of $276.8 million, net proceeds of $329.4 million from our revolving credit facility and long-term debt, and proceeds of $20.8 million from shares issued under our stock compensation plans.
Cash provided by financing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 totaled $145.4 million, which primarily consisted of cash provided from net proceeds from our revolving credit facility and long-term debt, and net proceeds from shares issued under our stock compensation plans, partially offset by repurchases of shares of our common stock and the payment of quarterly dividends.


part2.txt
A failure to pass budget appropriations, adopt continuing funding resolutions or other budgetary decisions limiting or delaying federal government spending, could reduce government spending on our products and services and have a material adverse effect on our business and our operating results.
Continued and further reductions in military spending could have a material adverse effect on our results from operations.
In addition, certain of our tangible assets such as inventory and machinery and equipment may experience impairment in their value as a result of such events as the introduction of new products, changes in technology or changes in customer demand patterns.
We depreciate our machinery and equipment at levels we believe are adequate; however, there can be no assurance that there will not be a future impairment that may have a material impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Some of these factors recently have had an adverse impact on our sales and operations and increased our cost of doing business and subjected the business to additional rules, policies and procedures that impacted the operation of the Company.
No assurance can be given that these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our future international sales and operations and, consequently, on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Furthermore, compliance with complex foreign and United States laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business both in the United States and in international jurisdictions.
Violations of these laws and regulations could result in civil and criminal fines, penalties and sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries, and could also materially affect our reputation, business and results of operations.
The impact of these factors is difficult to predict, but one or more of them could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.
The uncertainty surrounding Brexit not only potentially affects our business in the U.K. and the EU, but may have a material adverse effect on global economic conditions and the stability of global financial markets, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.
Changes in the value of foreign currencies in which our sales or costs incurred are denominated have in the past caused, and could in the future cause, fluctuations in our operating results.
Export licenses and other authorizations may be required from United States government agencies under the ITAR, the EAR, the Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) Regulations, the Trading with the Enemy Act of 1917, the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (“IEEPA”), the Arms Export Control Act of 1976 (“AECA”), and other similar laws and regulations for the sale, use and export of many of our products and related data and services.
The United States Government’s export reform effort resulted in the transition of various Company products from the USML to the CCL, shifting the licensing requirements and restrictions for products regulated by the Department of Commerce under the EAR.
Failures to obtain or delays in obtaining licenses may prevent or limit our ability to market, sell, export, or transfer our products outside the United States and has had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on our business and our operating results.
No assurance can be given that we will be able to compete effectively in the future and a failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
It is possible that further tariffs may be imposed on our other imports, or that our business will be impacted by retaliatory trade measures taken by China or other countries in response to existing or future tariffs, causing us to raise prices or make changes to our operations, any of which could materially harm our revenue or operating results.
We face certain security threats and technology disruptions, including threats to our information technology infrastructure, attempts to gain access to our or our customers’ proprietary or classified information, threats to the physical security of our facilities and employees, threats of terrorism events, and failures of our technology tools and systems.
Moreover, if a security breach of our information technology system affects our computer systems or results in the release of personally identifiable or other sensitive information of customers, business partners, employees and other third parties, our reputation and brand could be materially damaged, use of our products and services could decrease, and we could be exposed to a risk of loss, litigation and potential liability.
If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.
Significant management time and effort is required to manage effectively the increased complexity of the business and our failure to successfully do so could have a material adverse 
We have indebtedness as a result of the issuance of our 3.125 percent senior unsecured notes (the “Notes”) and borrowings against our unsecured credit facility, and we are subject to certain restrictive covenants under our unsecured credit facility and the indenture governing the Notes, and changes in the rate at which we can obtain indebtedness, any of which may limit our operational and financial flexibility
Our ability to meet our debt service obligations and comply with the financial covenants under our credit facility will be dependent upon our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control.
If LIBOR is no longer available or if our lenders have increased costs due to changes in LIBOR, it could adversely impact our interest expense, results of operations and cash flows.


