item1.txt
As a result, the Company recognized the cumulative effect of initially applying the new revenue standard as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the amount of approximately $1.0 million as of January 1, 2018.
Effective January 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2016-16, which eliminates the exception of recognizing, at the time of transfer, current and deferred income taxes for intra-entity asset transfers other than inventory.
The Company regularly enters into contracts that can include various combinations of products and services, which are generally capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations.
"Operating Segments and Related Information - Revenue and Long-Lived Assets by Geographic Area" for information related to the Company’s revenues disaggregated by significant geographical region and operating segment.
The Company had no material deferred contract costs recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2018.
The Company has elected to exclude contracts with customers with an original term of one year or less from remaining performance obligations while these contracts are included within backlog.
The Company expects to recognize revenue on approximately 78 percent of the remaining performance obligations over the next twelve months, and the remainder recognized thereafter.
As of September 30, 2018, the Company had approximately $56.4 million of total unrecognized stock-based compensation costs, net of estimated forfeitures, to be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.2 years.
The fair value of the Company’s foreign currency contracts as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, are disclosed in Note 6, "Derivative Financial Instruments," and are based on Level 2 inputs.
The fair value of the Company’s senior unsecured notes as described in Note 14, "Long-Term Debt," is approximately $418.7 million and $427.5 million based upon Level 2 inputs at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
The proceeds from the 2016 Notes were used to repay the principal amount of the notes issued in August 2011 and outstanding in July 2016 and are being used for general corporate purposes, including working capital and capital expenditure needs, business acquisitions and repurchases of the Company’s common stock.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Company repurchased 2.0 million shares of the Company's common stock through open market transactions, including 1.0 million shares received from the accelerated share repurchase program, entered in March 2018 at a notional amount of $50.0 million.
On September 7, 2018, the Company paid a dividend of $0.16 per share on its outstanding common stock to the shareholders of record as of the close of business on August 24, 2018.
However, an unfavorable outcome could result in substantial fines and penalties or loss or suspension of export privileges or of particular authorizations that could be material to the Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows in and following the period in which such an outcome becomes estimable or known.
While there still remains uncertainty related to estimating the costs associated with a potential remedy and number of units which may require such remedy, the Company currently estimates the range of potential loss on remaining units to be between $5.2 million and $12.4 million.
As no single amount within the range is a better estimate than any other amount within the range, the Company has recorded an accrual of $5.2 million in other current liabilities as of September 30, 2018.
While the outcome of each of these matters is currently not determinable, the Company does not expect that the ultimate resolution of any such matter will individually have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
The costs to resolve all such matters may in the aggregate have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
The effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, is lower than the United States Federal tax rate of 21.0 percent mainly due to excess tax benefits from stock compensation and a reduction in the accrual for the U.S. transition tax, offset partially by state taxes, higher tax rates applied to income earned in certain foreign jurisdictions, and other discrete items.
In connection with the Company's initial analysis of the impact of the Tax Act, the Company recorded provisional net tax expense of $94.4 million for the period ended December 31, 2017.
This amount consists of net expense of $66.5 million for the transition tax and net expense of $12.8 million for the remeasurement of the Company's net deferred tax assets using the reduced United States tax rate.
In addition, the Company also recorded net tax expense of $15.1 million for state income and foreign taxes estimated to be due upon distribution of approximately $1.0 billion of previously undistributed foreign earnings no longer permanently reinvested as of December 31, 2017.
The Company has not completed the accounting for the tax effects of the Tax Act, primarily related to computations of earnings and profits, available foreign tax credits, and state conformity to federal tax changes.
However, during the quarter ending September 30, 2018, the Company recognized a measurement period adjustment resulting in a $9.9 million reduction of tax expense.
In addition, the Company reduced by $0.6 million the estimated state and foreign liability for tax due upon distribution of approximately $902.0 million of previously undistributed foreign earnings no longer permanently reinvested as of December 31, 2017.
The Company continues to gather additional information and expects to complete the accounting for the Tax Act within the measurement period prescribed in Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118.
As of September 30, 2018, the Company had approximately $63.1 million of unrecognized tax benefits, all of which would affect the Company’s effective tax rate if recognized.
The Company anticipates approximately $46.7 million of its net unrecognized tax benefits will be recognized within 12 months as the result of settlements or effective settlements with various tax authorities, the closure of certain audits and the lapse of the applicable statute of limitations.
As of September 30, 2018, the Company had $6.8 million of accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits that are recorded as current and non-current accrued income taxes on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
In 2016, the Company, in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 740, "Income Taxes," recorded discrete tax charges totaling $39.6 million related to the January 11, 2016 announcement from the European Commission of a decision concluding that certain rules under Belgian tax legislation were deemed to be incompatible with European Union regulations on state aid.
As a result of this decision, the European Commission directed the Belgian Government to recover past taxes from certain entities, reflective of disallowed state aid, which impacts one of the Company’s international subsidiaries.
On January 10, 2017, the Company received tax assessments from the Belgium government approximating the discrete tax charge recorded during 2016, which the Company has classified as current taxes payable on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2018.
As a result, the Company expects to reverse a similar amount of previously accrued income tax plus interest associated with the assessments during the three-month period ending December 31, 2018.
In addition, the Company expects the euro equivalent of $35.7 million held in a restricted cash account as of September 30, 2018 to become unrestricted during the three-month period ending December 31, 2018.
Operating income as reviewed by the CODM is revenue less cost of goods sold and operating expenses, excluding general corporate expenses, amortization of purchased intangible assets, amortization of acquisition-related inventory step-up, loss on sale of a business and restructuring and other charges.
On March 26, 2018, the Company completed a transaction to acquire 100% of the outstanding stock of a privately held technology company for approximately $7.1 million in cash.
During the third quarter of 2018, the Company finalized the purchase price allocation and recorded $2.2 million of identified intangible assets and goodwill of $4.7 million in the Commercial business unit.
On April 3, 2018, the Company completed a transaction to acquire 100% of the outstanding stock of a privately held startup technology company for approximately $7.1 million in cash.
In addition, during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Company made a number of minority interest and other investments in privately held technology companies totaling approximately $15.5 million.
On February 6, 2018 the Company sold the Consumer and Small and Medium-sized ("SMB") Security businesses within the Commercial segment for total cash consideration of approximately $28.8 million.
As a result of this combined sale, the Company recognized a pre-tax loss of $10.2 million in the first quarter of 2018.
This group of assets was previously classified as held for sale during the fourth quarter of 2017, when the Company recorded an estimated pre-tax loss on net assets held for sale of $23.6 million.
This disposal does not qualify as discontinued operations and therefore, its operating results are included in the Company’s continuing operations for all periods presented through the date of the sale.
On October 23, 2018 one of the Company's wholly-owned international subsidiaries received a favorable decision from the Belgian government canceling $33.0 million of previously assessed income taxes.
See Note 16, “Contingencies” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Company’s legal proceedings.
Some of these factors recently have had an adverse impact on our sales and operations and increased our cost of doing business and subjected the business to additional rules, policies and procedures that impacted the operation of the Company.
Export licenses and other authorizations are required from United States government agencies under the ITAR, the Export Administration Regulation (“EAR”), the Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) Regulations, the Trading with the Enemy Act of 1917, the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (“IEEPA”), the Arms Export Control Act of 1976 (“AECA”), and other similar laws and regulations for the sale, use and export of many of our products and related data and services.
Moreover, if a security breach of our information technology system affects our computer systems or results in the release of personally identifiable or other sensitive information of customers, business partners, employees and other third parties, our reputation and brand could be materially damaged, use of our products and services could decrease, and we could be exposed to a risk of loss, litigation and potential liability.


item2.txt
Gross profit for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was $672.5 million compared to $620.9 million for the nine month period ended September 30, 2017.
The increase in selling, general, and administrative expenses for the nine month period is primarily attributed to $15.0 million recorded in the first quarter of 2018 for the costs of a regulatory settlement described further in Note 16, "Contingencies" of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Selling, general, and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue were 22.4 percent and 21.5 percent for the nine months periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Industrial business unit revenue for the quarter ended September 30, 2018 increased by 3.6 percent compared to the same period of 2017.
Industrial business unit revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 increased by 9.3 percent compared to the same period of 2017.
The increase in revenue for the three month period ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period of 2017, was predominately attributable to favorable product mix partially offset by volume declines across the Instruments and OEM product lines.
The increase in revenue for the nine month period ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period of 2017, was predominately attributable to strong growth across the OEM automotive, cooled camera cores, and UAS product lines.
The increase in earnings from operations for the three month period ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period of 2017, was predominately attributable to favorable product mix across the OEM and Instruments product lines.
The increase in earnings from operations for the nine month period ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period of 2017, was predominately attributable to strong growth across the OEM automotive, cooled and UAS product lines.
Commercial business unit revenue for the quarter ended September 30, 2018 decreased by 30.8 percent compared to the same period of 2017.
Commercial business unit revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 decreased 17.4 percent compared to the same period of 2017.
The decrease in revenue for the three and nine month periods ended September 30, 2018 was due to the divestiture of our Consumer and SMB Security business during the period ended March 31, 2018 and partially offset by increased revenues in our Maritime and Intelligent Traffic product lines.
The decrease in earnings from operations for the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period of 2017, was primarily due to reductions in gross margins related to the divestiture of our Consumer and SMB Security business.
The increase in earnings from operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period of 2017, was primarily due to reductions in spending partially offset by reductions in gross margins related to the divestiture of our Consumer and SMB Security business.
The increase in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, was primarily due to cash provided from operations of $275.8 million, cash received from the sale of our Consumer and SMB Security businesses of $25.9 million and proceeds of $24.2 million from shares issued under our stock compensation plans, partially offset by share repurchases of $100.0 million, dividend payments of $66.5 million, business acquisitions of $22.2 million, minority interest and other investments of $15.5 million and capital expenditures of $20.7 million.
Cash provided by operating activities during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 totaled $275.8 million, which primarily consisted of net earnings, adjusted for depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation, other non-cash items and changes in working capital.
Cash used by investing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 totaled $32.4 million, which consisted of business acquisitions, minority interest investments and capital expenditures in the ordinary course of business, partially offset by $25.9 million generated from the sale of our Consumer and SMB Security businesses.
Cash used by financing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 totaled $156.9 million, which primarily consisted of cash used for the repurchase of shares of our common stock and the payment of quarterly dividends.


item4.txt
Based on the evaluation, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures are effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports it files or submits under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms.


part2.txt
In addition, certain of our tangible assets such as inventory and machinery and equipment may experience impairment in their value as a result of such events as the introduction of new products, changes in technology or changes in customer demand patterns.
We depreciate our machinery and equipment at levels we believe are adequate; however, there can be no assurance that there will not be a future impairment that may have a material impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Some of these factors recently have had an adverse impact on our sales and operations and increased our cost of doing business and subjected the business to additional rules, policies and procedures that impacted the operation of the Company.
No assurance can be given that these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our future international sales and operations and, consequently, on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Furthermore, compliance with complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business both in the United States and in international jurisdictions.
Violations of these laws and regulations could result in civil and criminal fines, penalties and sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries, and could also materially affect our reputation, business and results of operations.
The impact of these factors is difficult to predict, but one or more of them could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.
Changes in the value of foreign currencies in which our sales or costs incurred are denominated have in the past caused, and could in the future cause, fluctuations in our operating results.
With respect to international sales denominated in United States dollars, a decrease in the value of foreign currencies relative to the United States dollar could make our products less price competitive.
Export licenses and other authorizations are required from United States government agencies under the ITAR, the Export Administration Regulation (“EAR”), the Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) Regulations, the Trading with the Enemy Act of 1917, the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (“IEEPA”), the Arms Export Control Act of 1976 (“AECA”), and other similar laws and regulations for the sale, use and export of many of our products and related data and services.
Recently, the United States Government’s export reform effort resulted in the transition of various Company products from the USML to the CCL, shifting the licensing requirements and restrictions for products regulated by the Department of Commerce under the EAR.
Failures to obtain or delays in obtaining licenses may prevent or limit our ability to market, sell, export, or transfer our products outside the United States and has had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on our business and our operating results.
No assurance can be given that we will be able to compete effectively in the future and a failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Any failure by us to protect our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Our ability to develop new products and technologies that anticipate changing customer requirements, reduce costs and otherwise retain or enhance our competitive position in existing and new markets will be an important factor in our future results from operations.
If we fail to develop and introduce new products and technologies in a timely manner, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected.
We face certain security threats and technology disruptions, including threats to our information technology infrastructure, attempts to gain access to our or our customers’ proprietary or classified information, threats to the physical security of our facilities and employees, threats of terrorism events, and failures of our technology tools and systems.
Our information technology networks and related systems are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to successfully perform day-to-day operations.
To the extent we were to experience a breach of our systems and were unable to protect sensitive data, such a breach could materially damage business partner and customer relationships, and curtail or otherwise impact the use of our information technology systems.
Moreover, if a security breach of our information technology system affects our computer systems or results in the release of personally identifiable or other sensitive information of customers, business partners, employees and other third parties, our reputation and brand could be materially damaged, use of our products and services could decrease, and we could be exposed to a risk of loss, litigation and potential liability.
If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.
Significant management time and effort is required to manage effectively the increased complexity of the business and our failure to successfully do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Our inability to continue to manufacture our products at one or more of our facilities as a result of, for example, a prolonged power outage, earthquake, fire or other natural disaster, or labor or political unrest, could prevent us from supplying products to our customers and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
The integration of businesses, personnel, product lines and technologies can be difficult, time consuming and subject to significant risks.
We have indebtedness as a result of the issuance of our 3.125 percent senior unsecured notes (the “Notes”) and borrowings against our unsecured credit facility, and we are subject to certain restrictive covenants under our unsecured credit facility and the indenture governing the Notes which may limit our operational and financial flexibility
Our ability to meet our debt service obligations and comply with the financial covenants under our credit facility will be dependent upon our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control.
Our ability to refinance indebtedness, including the Notes, will depend in part on our operating and financial performance, which, in turn, is subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control.
Our inability to refinance our indebtedness or to do so upon favorable terms could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and make us vulnerable to adverse industry and general economic conditions.


