item1.txt
Effective January 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2014-09 and all the related amendments ("new revenue standard" or "ASC 606") using the modified retrospective method to those contracts not yet completed as of January 1, 2018.
As a result, the Company recognized the cumulative effect of initially applying the new revenue standard as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the amount of approximately $1.0 million as of January 1, 2018.
Effective January 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2016-16, which eliminates the exception of recognizing, at the time of transfer, current and deferred income taxes for intra-entity asset transfers other than inventory.
Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for those products or services.
The Company regularly enters into contracts that can include various combinations of products and services, which are generally capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations.
The following table presents the Company’s revenues disaggregated by geographical region and operating segment for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 (in thousands).
The Company had no material deferred contract costs recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of March 31, 2018.
The Company has elected to exclude contracts with customers with an original term of one year or less from remaining performance obligations while these contracts are included within backlog.
The Company expects to recognize revenue on approximately 53 percent of the remaining performance obligations over the next 12 months, and the remainder recognized thereafter.
As of March 31, 2018, the Company had approximately $35.6 million of total unrecognized stock-based compensation costs, net of estimated forfeitures, to be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.00 years.
The Company had $66.2 million and $140.7 million of cash equivalents at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, which were primarily investments in money market funds and overnight deposits.
The Company has categorized its cash equivalents as a Level 1 financial asset, measured at fair value based on quoted prices in active markets of identical assets.
The fair value of the Company’s foreign currency contracts as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, are disclosed in Note 6, "Derivative Financial Instruments," and are based on Level 2 inputs.
The fair value of the Company’s senior unsecured notes as described in Note 14, "Long-Term Debt," is approximately $422.6 million and $427.5 million based upon Level 2 inputs at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
The Company does not have any other significant financial assets or liabilities that are measured at fair value.
In August 2017, the Company announced a realignment of its business operations into three reportable operating segments effective as of January 1, 2018.
This reorganization requires that the Company reassign its reported goodwill as of January 1, 2018 to its new reportable segments based on the relative fair value of the respective operating segments at that time.
The proceeds from the 2016 Notes were used to repay the principal amount of the notes issued in August 2011 and outstanding in July 2016 and are being used for general corporate purposes, including working capital and capital expenditure needs, business acquisitions and repurchases of the Company’s common stock.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, the Company repurchased 1.7 million shares of the Company's common stock through open market transactions and entered into an accelerated share repurchase program at a notional amount of $50.0 million under which the Company received 0.8 million shares in March 2018.
On March 9, 2018, the Company paid a dividend of $0.16 per share on its outstanding common stock to the shareholders of record as of the close of business on February 23, 2018.
The Company is unable to estimate the amount or range of potential loss or recovery, if any, which might result if the final determination of this matter is favorable or unfavorable, but an adverse ruling on the merits of the original claims against the FLIR Parties, while remote, could be material.
However, an unfavorable outcome could result in substantial fines and penalties or loss or suspension of export privileges or of particular authorizations that could be material to the Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows in and following the period in which such an outcome becomes estimable or known.
While there still remains uncertainty related to estimating the costs associated with a potential remedy and number of units which may require such remedy, the Company currently estimates the range of potential loss to be between $6.3 million and $14 million.
As no single amount within the range is a better estimate than any other amount within the range, the Company has recorded a liability of $6.3 million as of March 31, 2018.
While the outcome of each of these matters is currently not determinable, the Company does not expect that the ultimate resolution of any such matter will individually have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
The costs to resolve all such matters may in the aggregate have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
In connection with the Company's initial analysis of the impact of the Tax Act, the Company recorded provisional net tax expense of $94.4 million for the period ended December 31, 2017.
This amount consists of net expense of $66.5 million for the transition tax and net expense of $12.8 million for the remeasurement of the Company's net deferred tax assets using the reduced United States tax rate.
In addition, the Company also recorded net tax expense of $15.1 million for state income and foreign taxes estimated to be due upon distribution of approximately $1.0 billion of previously undistributed foreign earnings no longer permanently reinvested as of December 31, 2017.
As of March 31, 2018, the Company has not completed the accounting for the tax effects of the Tax Act described above and there have been no material changes to estimated amounts.
As of March 31, 2018, the Company had approximately $65.2 million of unrecognized tax benefits, all of which would affect the Company’s effective tax rate if recognized.
The Company anticipates approximately $1.8 million of its net unrecognized tax benefits will be recognized within 12 months as the result of settlements or effective settlements with various tax authorities, the closure of certain audits and the lapse of the applicable statute of limitations.
As of March 31, 2018, the Company had $6.4 million of accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits that are recorded as current and non-current accrued income taxes on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
In 2016, the Company recorded discrete tax charges totaling $39.6 million related to the January 11, 2016 announcement from the European Commission of a decision concluding that certain rules under Belgian tax legislation were deemed to be incompatible with European Union regulations on state aid.
As a result of this decision, the European Commission directed the Belgian Government to recover past taxes from certain entities, reflective of disallowed state aid, which impacts one of the Company’s international subsidiaries.
In accordance with FASB ASC Topic 740, “Income Taxes,” the Company recorded discrete tax expense of $39.6 million during 2016, related to this matter and on January 10, 2017, received tax assessments from the Belgium government for a similar amount, which the Company has classified as current taxes payable on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of March 31, 2018.
The Company has filed a complaint against the Belgian tax assessments, and the result of this complaint, the appeal with the General Court of the European Union, new information received from the Belgian Government, or other future events may cause the income tax provision associated with the decision to be entirely or partially reversed.
At March 31, 2018, the Company held the euro equivalent of $37.6 million in a restricted cash account.
Operating income as reviewed by the CODM is revenue less cost of goods sold and operating expenses, excluding general corporate expenses, amortization of purchased intangible assets, amortization of acquisition-related inventory step-up, loss on sale of a business and restructuring and other charges.
On March 26, 2018, the Company completed a transaction to acquire 100% of the outstanding stock of a privately held technology company for approximately $7.1 million in cash.
In addition, during the three months ended March 31, 2018, the Company also made a number of minority interest investments in private technology companies totaling approximately $9.5 million.
On February 6, 2018 the Company sold the Consumer and Small and Medium-sized ("SMB") Security businesses within the Commercial segment for total cash consideration of approximately $28.8 million.
As a result of this combined sale, the Company recognized a pre-tax loss of $10.2 million in the first quarter of 2018.
This group of assets was previously classified as held for sale during the fourth quarter of 2017, when the Company recorded an estimated pre-tax loss on net assets held for sale of $23.6 million.
This disposal does not qualify as discontinued operations and therefore, its operating results are included in the Company’s continuing operations for all periods presented through the date of the sale.
See Note 16, “Contingencies” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Company’s legal proceedings.
Some of these factors recently have had an adverse impact on our sales and operations and increased the Company’s cost of doing business and subjected the business to additional rules, policies and procedures that impacted the operation of the Company.
Export licenses and other authorizations are required from United States government agencies under the ITAR, the Export Administration Regulation (“EAR”), the Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) Regulations, the Trading with the Enemy Act of 1917, the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (“IEEPA”), the Arms Export Control Act of 1976 (“AECA”), and other similar laws and regulations for the sale, use and export of many of our products and related data and services.
Recently, the United States Government’s export reform effort resulted in the transition of various Company products from the USML to the CCL, shifting the licensing requirements and restrictions for products regulated by the Department of Commerce under the EAR.
The speed with which companies can identify new applications for thermal imaging, develop products to meet those needs and supply commercial quantities at low prices to the market are important competitive factors.
Moreover, if a security breach of our information technology system affects our computer systems or results in the release of personally identifiable or other sensitive information of customers, business partners, employees and other third parties, our reputation and brand could be materially damaged, use of our products and services could decrease, and we could be exposed to a risk of loss, litigation and potential liability.


item2.txt
Selling, general, and administrative expenses were $107.7 million and $90.3 million for the quarters ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Selling, general, and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue were 24.5 percent and 22.2 percent for the quarters ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Our income tax provision of $15.4 million for the three month period ended March 31, 2018, represents an effective tax rate of 28.2 percent.
Our income tax provision for the three month period ended March 31, 2017 was $13.0 million, which represented an effective tax rate of 23.4 percent.
The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2018 is higher than the United States Federal tax rate of 21 percent mainly due to state taxes, higher tax rates applied to income earned in foreign jurisdictions, accruals for non-deductible penalties, and other discrete items, offset by the effect of federal, foreign and state tax credits and excess tax benefits from stock compensation.
Industrial business unit revenue for the quarter ended March 31, 2018, increased by 10.3 percent compared to the same period of 2017.
The increase in revenue for the three-month period was predominately attributable to strength in the Instruments handheld market, UAS, and sales to OEMs. The increase in earnings from operations for the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to the same periods of 2017, was primarily due to the higher revenue.
Government and Defense business unit revenue for the quarter ended March 31, 2018, increased by 15.3 percent compared to the same period of 2017.
The increase in earnings from operations for the three-month period ended March 31, 2018, compared to the same periods in 2017, was primarily due to higher revenues and favorable product mix.
Commercial business unit revenue for the quarter ended March 31, 2018, decreased by 3.7 percent compared to the same period of 2017.
The decrease in revenue for the three-month period ended March 31, 2018 was predominately due to the divestitures of our Consumer and SMB Security businesses during the period ended March 31, 2018, partially offset by higher marine electronics sales.
The decrease in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash during the three months ended March 31, 2018, was primarily due to share repurchases of $95.0 million, dividend payments of $22.2 million, a business acquisition of $7.1 million, minority interest investments of $9.5 million and capital expenditures of $7.1 million, partially offset by cash provided from operations of $43.2 million, cash received from the sale of our Consumer and SMB Security businesses of $25.9 million and proceeds of $3.5 million from shares issued under our stock compensation plans.
Cash provided by operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2018, totaled $43.2 million, which primarily consisted of net earnings, adjusted for depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation, other non-cash items and changes in working capital.
Cash generated by investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2018, totaled $2.3 million, which consisted of $25.9 million from the sale of our Consumer and SMB Security businesses, partially offset by a business acquisition and minority interest investments and capital expenditures in the ordinary course of business.
Cash used by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2018, totaled $114.0 million, which primarily consisted of cash used for the repurchase of shares of our common stock and the payment of quarterly dividends.


item4.txt
Based on the evaluation, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures are effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports it files or submits under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms.


part2.txt
Our fixed costs, including facilities and information technology costs, compliance and public company costs, and depreciation and amortization related to previous acquisitions and capital expenditures, are significant and are difficult to reduce in the short term.
In addition, certain of our tangible assets such as inventory and machinery and equipment may experience impairment in their value as a result of such events as the introduction of new products, changes in technology or changes in customer demand patterns.
We depreciate our machinery and equipment at levels we believe are adequate; however, there can be no assurance that there will not be a future impairment that may have a material impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Some of these factors recently have had an adverse impact on our sales and operations and increased the Company’s cost of doing business and subjected the business to additional rules, policies and procedures that impacted the operation of the Company.
No assurance can be given that these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our future international sales and operations and, consequently, on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Furthermore, compliance with complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business both in the United States and in international jurisdictions.
Violations of these laws and regulations could result in civil and criminal fines, penalties and sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries, and could also materially affect our reputation, business and results of operations.
The impact of these factors is difficult to predict, but one or more of them could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.
Changes in the value of foreign currencies in which our sales or costs incurred are denominated have in the past caused, and could in the future cause, fluctuations in our operating results.
Export licenses and other authorizations are required from United States government agencies under the ITAR, the Export Administration Regulation (“EAR”), the Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) Regulations, the Trading with the Enemy Act of 1917, the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (“IEEPA”), the Arms Export Control Act of 1976 (“AECA”), and other similar laws and regulations for the sale, use and export of many of our products and related data and services.
Recently, the United States Government’s export reform effort resulted in the transition of various Company products from the USML to the CCL, shifting the licensing requirements and restrictions for products regulated by the Department of Commerce under the EAR.
Although we have taken actions and continue to take additional actions necessary to implement policies and procedures to promote an improved compliance culture and programs, there is no guarantee that our actions will be effective or that government agencies will not view our actions and programs with heightened scrutiny, including as a result of events outside the Company’s control.
Failures to obtain or delays in obtaining licenses may prevent or limit our ability to market, sell, export, or transfer our products outside the United States and has had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on our business and our operating results.
No assurance can be given that we will be able to compete effectively in the future and a failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Any failure by us to protect our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Our ability to develop new products and technologies that anticipate changing customer requirements, reduce costs and otherwise retain or enhance our competitive position in existing and new markets will be an important factor in our future results from operations.
If we fail to develop and introduce new products and technologies in a timely manner, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected.
We face certain security threats and technology disruptions, including threats to our information technology infrastructure, attempts to gain access to our or our customers’ proprietary or classified information, threats to the physical security of our facilities and employees, threats of terrorism events, and failures of our technology tools and systems.
Moreover, if a security breach of our information technology system affects our computer systems or results in the release of personally identifiable or other sensitive information of customers, business partners, employees and other third parties, our reputation and brand could be materially damaged, use of our products and services could decrease, and we could be exposed to a risk of loss, litigation and potential liability.
If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.
Significant management time and effort is required to manage effectively the increased complexity of the business and our failure to successfully do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Our inability to continue to manufacture our products at one or more of our facilities as a result of, for example, a prolonged power outage, earthquake, fire or other natural disaster, or labor or political unrest, could prevent us from supplying products to our customers and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
We have indebtedness as a result of the issuance of our 3.125 percent senior unsecured notes (the “Notes”) and borrowings against our unsecured credit facility, and we are subject to certain restrictive covenants under our unsecured credit facility and the indenture governing the Notes which may limit our operational and financial flexibility
Our ability to meet our debt service obligations and comply with the financial covenants under our credit facility will be dependent upon our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control.
Our ability to refinance indebtedness, including the Notes, will depend in part on our operating and financial performance, which, in turn, is subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control.
Our inability to refinance our indebtedness or to do so upon favorable terms could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and make us vulnerable to adverse industry and general economic conditions.
As a result of this decision, the European Commission has directed the Belgian Government to recover past taxes from certain entities, reflective of disallowed state aid, which impacts one of the Company’s international subsidiaries.
The Company has filed a complaint against the Belgian tax assessments, and the result of this complaint, the appeal with the General Court of the European Union, new information received from the Belgian Government, or other future events may cause the income tax provision associated with the decision to be entirely or partially reversed.


