fls.txt
Certain statements made in this report, as well as oral statements made by the Company from time to time, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.


item1.txt
The Company identifies performance obligations as promises in contracts to transfer distinct goods or services.
Standard products and services that the Company regularly sells separately are accounted for as distinct performance obligations.
Application-specific customer solutions that are comprised of a combination of products and services are accounted for as one performance obligation to deliver a total solution to the customer.
On-site support services that are provided to the customer after the solution is deployed are accounted for as a separate performance obligation.
These solutions are provided to customers in a variety of industries, including the consumer electronics, logistics, and automotive industries.
These activities are required to fulfill the Company’s promise to transfer the goods and are expensed when revenue is recognized.
If revenue is recognized before immaterial promises have been completed, then the costs related to such immaterial promises are accrued at the time of sale.
Amounts collected from customers for sales taxes are excluded from the transaction price.
The Company allocates the transaction price to each performance obligation at contract inception based on a relative stand-alone selling price basis, or the price at which the Company would sell the good or service separately to similar customers in similar circumstances.
The Company recognizes revenue when it transfers the promised goods or services to the customer.
Revenue for services, which are not material, is typically recognized over the time the service is provided.
Revenue for application-specific customer solutions is recognized at the point in time when the solution is validated, which is the point in time when the Company can objectively determine that the agreed-upon specifications in the contract have been met and the customer will accept the performance obligations in the arrangement.
In certain instances, an arrangement may include customer-specified acceptance provisions or performance guarantees that allow the customer to accept or reject delivered products that do not meet the customer’s specifications.
If acceptance provisions are presumed to be substantive, then revenue is deferred until customer acceptance.
For the Company’s standard products and services, revenue recognition and billing typically occur at the same time.
Credit assessments are performed to determine payment terms, which vary by region, industry, and customer.
Prepayment terms result in contract liabilities for customer deposits.
When credit is granted to customers, payment is typically due 30 to 90 days from billing.
This ASU applies to any entity that enters into a lease, although lessees will see the most significant changes.


item2.txt
Accordingly, prior period revenue, cost of revenue, and gross profit have been restated to apply the provisions of this ASC.
was driven primarily by lower order levels from a few large customers in the consumer electronics industry and was partially offset by growth in the logistics industry.
The gross margin improved to 75% of revenue in the third quarter of 2018 from 74% of revenue in the third quarter of 2017, due primarily to a lower percentage of revenue related to application-specific customer solutions.
Operating expenses in the third quarter of 2018 increased by 10% over the third quarter of 2017 due principally to the impact of headcount additions to support our future growth plans.
As a result of the lower revenue and continued headcount investment, operating income decreased to 34% of revenue in the third quarter of 2018 from 42% of revenue in the third quarter of 2017.
Constant-currency information compares results between periods as if exchange rates had remained constant period-over-period.
We generally refer to such amounts calculated on a constant-currency basis as excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes.
Results on a constant-currency basis are not in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP) and should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, results prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.


item4.txt
During the third quarter of 2018, the Company implemented a new Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system.


part2.txt
In October 2018, the Company's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of an additional $200,000,000 of the Company's common stock.


