fls.txt
Certain statements made in this report, as well as oral statements made by the Company from time to time, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.


item1.txt
The Company identifies performance obligations as promises in contracts to transfer distinct goods or services.
Standard products and services that the Company regularly sells separately are accounted for as distinct performance obligations.
Application-specific customer solutions that are comprised of a combination of products and services are accounted for as one performance obligation to deliver a total solution to the customer.
These activities are required to fulfill the Company’s promise to transfer the good and are expensed when revenue is recognized.
If revenue is recognized before immaterial promises have been completed, then the costs related to such immaterial promises are accrued at the time of sale.
Amounts collected from customers for sales taxes are excluded from the transaction price.
The Company allocates the transaction price to each performance obligation at contract inception based on a relative stand-alone selling price basis, or the price at which the Company would sell the good or service separately to similar customers in similar circumstances.
The Company recognizes revenue when it transfers the promised goods or services to the customer.
Revenue for services, which are not material, are typically recognized over the time the services are provided.
Revenue for application-specific customer solutions is recognized at the point in time when the solution is validated, which is the point in time when the Company can objectively determine that the agreed-upon specifications in the contract have been met and the customer will accept the performance obligations in the arrangement.
In certain instances, an arrangement may include customer-specified acceptance provisions or performance guarantees that allow the customer to accept or reject delivered products that do not meet the customer’s specifications.
If acceptance provisions are presumed to be substantive, then revenue is deferred until customer acceptance.
For the Company’s standard products and services, revenue recognition and billing typically occur at the same time.
Credit assessments are performed to determine payment terms, which vary by region, industry, and customer.
Prepayment terms result in contract liabilities for customer deposits.
When credit is granted to customers, payment is typically due 30 to 90 days from billing.
Such judgments include, but are not limited to, assessing the customer’s ability and intention to pay substantially all of the contract consideration when due, determining when two or more contracts should be combined and accounted for as a single contract, determining whether a contract modification has occurred, assessing whether promises are immaterial in the context of the contract, determining whether material promises in a contract represent distinct performance obligations, estimating the transaction price for a contract that contains variable consideration, determining the stand-alone selling price of each performance obligation, determining whether control is transferred over time or at a point in time for performance obligations, and assessing whether formal customer acceptance provisions are substantive.
This ASU applies to any entity that enters into a lease, although lessees will see the most significant changes.
Topic 842 distinguishes between finance leases and operating leases, which are substantially similar to the classification criteria for distinguishing between capital leases and operating leases under current U.S. GAAP.
As of the date of this report, management has determined the scope of leases subject to the new accounting requirements and has selected a software package to assist with compliance.


item2.txt
Accordingly, prior period revenue, cost of revenue, and gross profit have been restated to apply the provisions of this ASC.
Revenue for the first quarter of 2018 totaled $169,567,000, representing an increase of 22% from the first quarter of 2017 driven primarily by strong sales in the logistics and automotive industries.
related revenue resulted in a slight decline in the gross margin percentage to 76% of revenue in the first quarter of 2018 compared to 77% of revenue in the first quarter of 2017.
Operating expenses increased by 37% over the prior year due principally to the impact of headcount additions to support the higher revenue level and future growth plans.
The operating income margin was 20% of revenue in the first quarter of 2018 compared to 27% of revenue in the first quarter of 2017.
A lower tax benefit related to stock option exercises than the prior year resulted in a net income margin of 22% of revenue in the first quarter of 2018 compared to 33% of revenue in the first quarter of 2017.
Constant-currency information compares results between periods as if exchange rates had remained constant period-over-period.
We generally refer to such amounts calculated on a constant-currency basis as excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes.


item4.txt
Based on such evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that such disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of that date.


part2.txt
Various claims and legal proceedings generally incidental to the normal course of business are pending or threatened on behalf of or against the Company.


