Item 1. Financial Statements 



MTS SYSTEMS CORPORATION



Consolidated Balance Sheets









The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.



MTS SYSTEMS CORPORATION



Consolidated Statements of Income (Unaudited)







The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.      



MTS SYSTEMS CORPORATION



Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Unaudited)







The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.



MTS SYSTEMS CORPORATION



Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited)







The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.



MTS SYSTEMS CORPORATION



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 





NOTE 1 BASIS OF PRESENTATION 



The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of MTS Systems Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries. Significant intercompany account balances and transactions have been eliminated.



The terms "MTS," "we," "us," the "Company" or "our" in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, unless the context otherwise requires, refer to MTS Systems Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries. 



We have prepared the interim unaudited consolidated financial statements included herein pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States (U.S.) Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The information furnished in these consolidated financial statements includes normal recurring adjustments and reflects all adjustments that are, in our opinion, necessary for a fair presentation of such financial statements. The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported. Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been condensed or omitted pursuant to SEC rules and regulations. The accompanying consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017 filed with the SEC. Interim results of operations for the first fiscal quarter ended December 30, 2017 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full fiscal year. 



We have a 5-4-4 week, quarterly accounting cycle with our fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to September 30. Fiscal year 2018 ending on September 29, 2018 will consist of 52 weeks. Fiscal year 2017 ended on September 30, 2017 and consisted of 52 weeks. 



NOTE 2 RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS



Revenue Recognition













In December 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-20, Technical Corrections and Improvements to Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which amends ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), providing thirteen corrections and improvements to the new revenue standard.



The aforementioned revenue standards and amendments are required to be adopted for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2019. The new standards and amendments may be adopted retrospectively for all periods presented, or adopted using a modified retrospective approach. Early adoption is permitted for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, and interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2018. We intend to adopt the aforementioned revenue standards and amendments for our fiscal year 2019. We currently anticipate utilizing the modified retrospective approach as our method of adoption. We have substantially completed our review and analysis of our sales channels, selected contracts, policies and practices as compared to the new guidance and continue to work through implementation steps. We continue to evaluate our procedural and related system requirements related to the provisions of this standard. We are updating and rewriting our revenue recognition accounting policy as needed to reflect the requirements of this standard. In fiscal year 2018, we expect to draft our new revenue disclosures. We anticipate the revenue recognition methodology and timing of revenue recognition may change for certain products and contracts. Certain contracts may have a delay in revenue recognition until the customer takes control of the product, while certain products and contracts may accelerate revenue recognition to recognize revenue over the life of the contract. We continue to evaluate the impact that these changes in methodology will have on our consolidated financial statements.



Other 



In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 824), which requires lessees to recognize a right-of-use asset, representing the right to use the underlying asset for the lease term, and a lease liability on the balance sheet for all leases with terms greater than 12 months. Lessees can forgo recognizing a right-of-use asset and lease liability with lease terms of 12 months or less on the balance sheet through accounting policy elections as long as the lease does not include options to purchase the underlying assets that are reasonably certain to be exercised. The new guidance also requires certain qualitative and quantitative disclosures designed to assess the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases, along with additional key information about leasing arrangements. The standard is required to be adopted for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2020. The amendment is to be applied using a modified retrospective approach, which includes a number of optional practical expedients, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this guidance will have on our financial condition, results of operations and disclosures.







In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740), Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory, which requires companies to account for the income tax effects of intercompany sales and transfers of assets other than inventory when the transfer occurs. Current guidance requires companies to defer the income tax effects of intercompany transfers of assets until the asset has been sold to an outside party or otherwise recognized. The standard is required to be adopted for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2019. The amendment is to be applied using a modified retrospective approach. Early adoption is permitted as of the beginning of an annual period. We are currently evaluating the impact, if any, the adoption of this guidance will have on our financial condition, results of operations and disclosures.









Adopted

















NOTE 4 WARRANTY OBLIGATIONS 



Sales of our products and systems are subject to limited warranty obligations that are included in customer contracts. For sales that include installation services, warranty obligations generally extend for a period of 12 to 24 months from the date of either shipment or acceptance based on the contract terms. Product obligations generally extend for a period of 12 to 24 months from the date of purchase. Certain products offered in our Sensors segment include a lifetime warranty. 



Under the terms of these warranties, we are obligated to repair or replace any components or assemblies deemed defective due to workmanship or materials. We reserve the right to reject warranty claims where it is determined that failure is due to normal wear, customer modifications, improper maintenance or misuse. We record general warranty provisions based on an estimated warranty expense percentage applied to current period revenue. The percentage applied reflects our historical warranty claims experience over the preceding 12-month period. Both the experience percentage and the warranty liability are evaluated on an ongoing basis for adequacy. Warranty provisions are also recognized for certain unanticipated product claims that are individually significant.







NOTE 5 CAPITAL ASSETS 



Property and Equipment







Assets held under capital leases, consisting of machinery and equipment, are recorded at the present value of minimum lease payments and are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated life of the asset or the lease term. Amortization of assets held as capital leases is included in depreciation expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 



Goodwill







Intangible Assets

















Future amortization amounts presented above are estimates. Actual future amortization expense may be different due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, future acquisitions, impairments, changes in amortization periods or other factors.



NOTE 6 FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS











The hierarchy gives the highest priority to Level 1, as this level provides the most reliable measure of fair value, while giving the lowest priority to Level 3. 



Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis









1 Based on observable market transactions of spot currency rates and forward currency rates on equivalently-termed instruments. Carrying amounts of the financial assets and liabilities are equal to the fair value. See Note 7 for additional information on derivative financial instruments.



2 Based on London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) and spot rates. Carrying amount of the financial asset is equal to the fair value. See Note 7 for additional information on derivative financial instruments.



Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis



We measure certain financial instruments at fair value on a nonrecurring basis. These assets primarily include goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets acquired either as part of a business acquisition, individually or with a group of other assets, as well as property and equipment. These assets were initially measured and recognized at amounts equal to the fair value determined as of the date of acquisition or purchase subject to changes in value only for foreign currency translation. Periodically, these assets are tested for impairment by comparing their respective carrying values to the estimated fair value of the reporting unit or asset group in which they reside. In the event any of these assets were to become impaired, we would recognize an impairment loss equal to the amount by which the carrying value of the reporting unit, impaired asset or asset group exceeds its estimated fair value. Fair value measurements of reporting units are estimated using an income approach involving discounted or undiscounted cash flow models that contain certain Level 3 inputs requiring management judgment, including projections of economic conditions and customer demand, revenue and margins, changes in competition, operating costs, working capital requirements and new product introductions. Fair value measurements of the reporting units associated with our goodwill balances and our indefinite-lived intangible assets are estimated at least annually in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year for purposes of impairment testing if a quantitative analysis is performed. Fair value measurements associated with our intangible assets, other long-lived assets and property and equipment are estimated when events or changes in circumstances such as market value, asset utilization, physical change, legal factors or other matters indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. See Note 5 for additional information on goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, other long-lived assets and property and equipment.



Assets and Liabilities Not Measured at Fair Value



Certain financial instruments are not measured at fair value but are recorded at carrying amounts approximating fair value based on their short-term nature or variable interest rate. These financial instruments include cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and short-term borrowings.



Other Financial Instruments









1 The fair value of the 8.75% tangible equity units (TEUs) is based on the most recently quoted price for the outstanding securities, adjusted for any known significant deviations in value. The estimated fair value of these long-term obligations is not necessarily indicative of the amount that would be realized in a current market exchange. See Note 12 for additional information on the TEUs.



2 The fair value of the tranche B term loan is based on the most recently quoted market price for the outstanding debt instrument, adjusted for any known significant deviations in value. The estimated fair value of the debt obligation is not necessarily indicative of the amount that would be realized in a current market exchange. See Note 8 for additional information on debt instruments.



NOTE 7 DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES 













1 Net fair value of foreign exchange cash flow hedge assets or liabilities that could have been reported in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.



Cash Flow Hedging – Currency Risks



Currency exchange contracts utilized to maintain the functional currency value of expected financial transactions denominated in foreign currencies are designated as cash flow hedges. Qualifying gains and losses related to changes in the market value of these contracts are reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (AOCI) within shareholders' equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and reclassified into earnings in the same period during which the underlying hedged transaction affects earnings. The effective portion of the cash flow hedges represents the change in fair value of the hedge that offsets the change in the functional currency value of the hedged item. We periodically assess whether our currency exchange contracts are effective and, when a contract is determined to be no longer effective as a hedge, we discontinue hedge accounting prospectively. Subsequent changes in the market value of ineffective currency exchange contracts are recognized as an increase or decrease in revenue in the Consolidated Statements of Income as that is the same line item in which the underlying hedged transaction is reported. 



As of December 30, 2017 and September 30, 2017, we had outstanding cash flow hedge currency exchange contracts with gross notional U.S. dollar equivalent amounts of $44,890 and $29,136, respectively. Upon netting offsetting contracts to sell foreign currencies against contracts to purchase foreign currencies, irrespective of contract maturity dates, the net notional U.S. dollar equivalent amount of contracts outstanding was $39,951 and $24,093 as of December 30, 2017 and September 30, 2017, respectively. As of December 30, 2017, the net market value of the foreign currency exchange contracts was a net liability of $369, consisting of $151 in assets and $520 in liabilities. As of September 30, 2017, the net market value of the foreign currency exchange contracts was a net liability of $478, consisting of $73 in assets and $551 in liabilities.







The amount recognized in earnings as a result of the ineffectiveness of cash flow hedges was less than $1 in each of the three months ended December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016. As of December 30, 2017, the amount projected to be reclassified from AOCI into earnings in the next 12 months was a net loss of $438. The maximum remaining maturity of any forward or optional contract as of December 30, 2017 was 2.1 years.



Interest Rate Swaps



On October 20, 2016, we entered into a floating to fixed interest rate swap agreement to mitigate our exposure to interest rate increases related to a portion of our tranche B term loan facility. The total notional amount of the interest rate swap was $255,000 as of December 30, 2017. The swap agreement expires April 3, 2021. As a result of this agreement, every month we pay fixed interest at 1.256% in exchange for interest received at one month U.S. LIBOR. The market value of the interest rate swap as of December 30, 2017 was an asset of $5,027. The interest rate swap has been designated as a cash flow hedge. As a result, changes in the fair value of the interest rate swap are recorded in AOCI within shareholders' equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.







As of December 30, 2017, the amount projected to be reclassified from AOCI into earnings in the next 12 months was a net gain of $1,359.



Foreign Currency Balance Sheet Derivatives



We also use foreign currency derivative contracts to maintain the functional currency value of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional foreign currencies. The gains and losses related to the changes in the market value of these derivative contracts are included in other income (expense), net in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 



As of December 30, 2017 and September 30, 2017, we had outstanding foreign currency balance sheet derivative contracts with gross notional U.S. dollar equivalent amounts of $48,441 and $52,208, respectively. Upon netting offsetting contracts by counterparty banks to sell foreign currencies against contracts to purchase foreign currencies, irrespective of contract maturity dates, the net notional U.S. dollar equivalent amount of contracts outstanding as of December 30, 2017 and September 30, 2017 was $14,990 and $14,762, respectively. As of December 30, 2017 and September 30, 2017, the net market value of the foreign exchange balance sheet derivative contracts was a net liability of $21 and a net asset of $77, respectively. 















Tranche B Term Loan and Revolving Credit Facility



We have a credit agreement with U.S. Bank National Association and HSBC Bank USA, National Association as Co-Documentation Agents, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association as Syndication Agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as Administrative Agent and JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC as Joint Bookrunners and Joint Lead Arrangers (the Credit Agreement). The Credit Agreement provides for senior secured credit facilities consisting of a $120,000 revolving credit facility (the Revolving Credit Facility) which expires on July 5, 2021 and a $460,000 tranche B term loan facility (the Term Facility) which expires on July 5, 2023. The proceeds of the Revolving Credit Facility can be drawn upon to refinance existing indebtedness and for working capital and other general corporate purposes up to a maximum of $120,000. The proceeds of the Term Facility were used for financing the acquisition of PCB Group, Inc. (PCB) in fiscal year 2016. The Term Facility amortizes in equal quarterly installments equal to 1% of the original principal amount.



The primary categories of borrowing include Alternate Base Rate (ABR) Borrowing (ABR Term Loans and ABR Revolving Loans), Swingline Loans and Eurocurrency Borrowing (each as defined in the Credit Agreement). ABR Borrowings and Swingline Loans made in U.S. dollars under the Credit Agreement bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the ABR plus the Applicable Rate (as defined in the Credit Agreement). The ABR is defined as the greater of (a) the Prime Rate (as defined in the Credit Agreement) in effect on such day, (b) the New York Federal Reserve Bank (NYFRB) rate (as defined in the Credit Agreement) in effect on such day plus ½ of 1.00%, or (c) the Adjusted LIBOR (as defined in the Credit Agreement) for a one-month interest period in dollars on such day plus 1.00%. The ABR for ABR Term Loans shall not be less than 1.75% per annum. The Applicable Rate for any ABR Revolving Loans will be based upon the leverage ratio applicable on such date. As of December 30, 2017, the Applicable Rate for ABR Term Loans was 2.25% per annum.



Eurocurrency Borrowings made under the Credit Agreement bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the Adjusted LIBOR Rate plus the Applicable Rate. The Adjusted LIBOR Rate is defined as an interest rate per annum equal to (a) the LIBOR Rate for such interest period multiplied by (b) the Statutory Reserve Rate (as defined in the Credit Agreement). The Applicable Rate for any Eurocurrency Revolving Loan is based upon the leverage ratio applicable on such date. The Adjusted LIBOR Rate for Eurocurrency Term Loans shall not be less than 0.75% per annum. Based on our leverage ratio as of December 30, 2017, the Applicable Rate for Eurocurrency Revolving Loans was 3.00%. As of December 30, 2017, the Applicable Rate for Eurocurrency Term Loans was 3.25% per annum, plus the applicable Adjusted LIBOR Rate of 1.44%. The weighted average interest rate on Term Facility debt during the three months ended December 30, 2017 was 4.54%.



Outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility were $5,000 and $0, as of December 30, 2017 and September 30, 2017, respectively, reported in short-term borrowings in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. We had outstanding letters of credit drawn from the Revolving Credit Facility totaling $43,381 and $37,811 as of December 30, 2017 and September 30, 2017, respectively, leaving approximately $71,619 and $82,189, respectively, of unused borrowing capacity. Commitment fees are payable on the unused portion of the Revolving Credit Facility at rates between 0.25% and 0.40% based on our leverage ratio. During the three months ended December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, commitment fees incurred totaled $79 and $101, respectively. 



The Credit Agreement governing the Term Facility requires us to prepay outstanding term loans, subject to certain exceptions, depending on the leverage ratio with (a) up to 50% of the Company's annual Excess Cash Flow (as defined in the Credit Agreement) and (b) 100% of the net cash proceeds of (i) certain asset sales and casualty and condemnation events, subject to reinvestment rights and certain other exceptions; and (ii) any incurrence or issuance of certain debt, other than debt permitted under the Credit Agreement. We may voluntarily prepay outstanding loans under the Term Facility at any time without premium or penalty. All obligations under the Credit Agreement are unconditionally guaranteed by certain of the Company's existing wholly owned domestic subsidiaries, and are secured, subject to certain exceptions, by substantially all of the Company's assets and the assets of the Company's subsidiary guarantors. 



Under the Credit Agreement, we are subject to customary affirmative and negative covenants, including, among others, restrictions on our ability to incur debt, create liens, dispose of assets, make investments, loans, advances, guarantees, and acquisitions, enter into transactions with affiliates, and enter into any restrictive agreements and customary events of default (including payment defaults, covenant defaults, change of control defaults and bankruptcy defaults). The Credit Agreement also contains financial covenants, including the ratio of consolidated total indebtedness to adjusted consolidated earnings before income, taxes, depreciation and amortization (Adjusted EBITDA), as defined in the Credit Agreement, as well as the ratio of Adjusted EBITDA to consolidated interest expense. These covenants restrict our ability to purchase outstanding shares of our common stock. As of December 30, 2017 and September 30, 2017, we were in compliance with these financial covenants. 



See Note 6 for additional information on the fair value of the tranche B term loan and the TEU debt.



Interest Rate Swaps



On October 20, 2016, in order to mitigate our exposure to interest rate increases on our variable rate debt, we entered into a variable to fixed amortizing interest rate swap. See Note 7 for additional information on derivative financial instruments.







NOTE 9 STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION



We compensate our officers, directors and employees with stock-based compensation under the 2017 Stock Incentive Plan (the 2017 Plan) approved by our shareholders and administered under the supervision of our Board of Directors. As of December 30, 2017, a total of 1,595 shares were available for issuance under the 2017 Plan. 





Stock Options



There were no stock options granted during the three months ended December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016. 



Restricted Stock Units and Performance Restricted Stock Units



We award restricted stock units to directors and key employees and performance restricted stock units to key employees. During the three months ended December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, we granted approximately 1,294 restricted stock units to officers and employees and 2 restricted stock units to employees, respectively. The fair value of the restricted stock units granted during the three months ended December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016 was $51.78 and $47.73, respectively, representing the market value of our shares at the date of grant less the present value of estimated foregone dividends over the 



vesting period. There were no performance restricted stock units granted during the three months ended December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016. 



Employee Stock Purchase Plan



Our U.S. employees are eligible to participate in the 2012 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (2012 ESPP) approved by our shareholders. As of December 30, 2017, a total of 639 shares were available for issuance under the 2012 ESPP. During the three months ended December 30, 2017, we issued no shares under the 2012 ESPP. During the three months ended December 31, 2016, we issued 14 shares of our common stock to participants under the 2012 ESPP at a weighted average price per share of $37.53.



NOTE 10 EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS







The weighted average expected long-term rate of return on plan assets used to determine the net periodic benefit cost for each of the three months ended December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016 was 5.5%.



NOTE 11 INCOME TAXES



The income tax benefit for the three months ended December 30, 2017 included certain discrete benefits of $25,378 for the estimated impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act) enacted into law on December 22, 2017. The discrete benefits primarily related to $32,264 of estimated benefit from the remeasurement of our estimated net deferred tax liabilities, partially offset by $6,886 of estimated expense associated with the mandatory deemed repatriation tax. Excluding the impact of these discrete benefits, the effective tax rate for the three months ended December 30, 2017 decreased compared to the prior year primarily due to the lower U.S. corporate tax rate under the Tax Act. 





Amounts recorded where the accounting is complete during the three months ended December 30, 2017 primarily relate to the reduction in the U.S. corporate income tax rate to 21%, and we recorded an income tax benefit of $32,244 to remeasure deferred tax liabilities associated with intangible assets that will reverse at the new 21% rate. 



Amounts recorded where the accounting is provisional during the three months ended December 30, 2017 include the remeasurement of other deferred taxes where the timing of the reversal cannot be known at this time. We have performed a provisional estimate of the net impact of remeasurement of other deferred tax assets and liabilities and recorded a $20 income tax benefit during the three months ended December 30, 2017. In addition, the Tax Act includes a one-time mandatory repatriation transition tax on the net accumulated earnings and profits of our foreign subsidiaries. We have performed a provisional estimate of this tax and recorded a $6,886 income tax provision during the three months ended December 30, 2017. These amounts are provisional based on incomplete information and use of estimates at future balance sheet dates which are needed to finalize the calculation.



We analyzed the Tax Act for all tax provisions expected to be effective in fiscal year 2018, and there are no anticipated effects of the Tax Act where we have not yet recorded a reasonable estimate of the accounting effect as of December 30, 2017.



The full-year estimated annual effective tax rate, which excludes the impact of discrete items, was 17.3% as of December 30, 2017, as compared to 21.8% as of December 31, 2016. This decrease is primarily due to the reduction of the U.S. federal statutory rate from 35.0% to 24.5%, a blended rate based upon our fiscal year, partially offset by higher income before taxes.



As of December 30, 2017, the liability for unrecognized tax benefits was $6,771, of which $4,173 would favorably affect our effective tax rate, if recognized. As of September 30, 2017, the liability for unrecognized tax benefits was $5,849, of which $3,234 would favorably affect our effective tax rate, if recognized. As of December 30, 2017, we do not expect significant changes in the amount of unrecognized tax benefits during the next twelve months.



NOTE 12 SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY



Tangible Equity Units



During the third quarter of fiscal year 2016, we issued 1,150 TEUs in a registered public offering primarily to finance the acquisition of PCB, to repay amounts outstanding under our existing revolving credit facility and to pay related costs, fees and expenses. Total proceeds, net of underwriting discounts, commissions and other expenses were $110,926. Each TEU has a stated amount of $100 per TEU and is comprised of a prepaid stock purchase contract and a senior amortizing note having a final installment payment date of July 1, 2019. We allocated the proceeds from the issuance of the TEUs between equity and debt based on the relative fair values of the respective components of each TEU. The fair value of the prepaid stock purchase contracts, net of underwriting discounts, commissions and other expenses, was recorded in additional paid-in capital in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The fair value of the senior amortizing note, net of underwriting discounts, commissions and other expenses, was split between current maturities of long-term debt, net and long-term debt, less current maturities, net in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Underwriting discounts, commissions and other costs directly associated with the TEU-related debt will be amortized using the effective interest rate method over the three year term of the instrument.







1 The fair value price allocation between equity and debt for each TEU was determined using a discounted cash flow model.



2 Other expenses include direct and incremental costs related to the issuance of the TEUs.



Equity Component



Unless converted earlier at the option of the holder, each prepaid stock purchase contract will automatically settle on July 1, 2019. If converted prior to the automatic settlement date at the option of the holder, the minimum of 1.9841 shares of our common stock are delivered to the holder of each prepaid stock purchase contract. On the automatic settlement date, a minimum of 1.9841 shares and a maximum of 2.3810 shares of our common stock, subject to adjustment based upon the applicable market value discussed below, will be delivered to the holder of each prepaid stock purchase contract at the settlement date.





The "applicable market value" is defined as the average of the daily volume-weighted average price of the common stock on each of the 20 consecutive trading days beginning on, and including, the 23rd scheduled trading day immediately preceding July 1, 2019.



During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017, certain holders of our TEUs elected to early convert the equity component on 473 of our outstanding TEUs at the minimum conversion rate of 1.9841 which resulted in the issuance of 939 shares of our common stock. During the three months ended December 30, 2017, no holders of our TEUs elected to early convert the equity component of our outstanding TEUs. There were 677 units of the equity component of TEUs outstanding as of both December 30, 2017 and September 30, 2017. 



Debt Component



The amortizing senior note was issued with an initial principal amount of $27,386 or $23.8136 per TEU. Equal quarterly cash installments of $2.1875 per amortizing note will be paid, which in the aggregate will be equivalent to a 8.75% cash distribution per year with respect to each $100 stated amount per TEU. Each installment will constitute a payment of interest and partial repayment of principal. 



Earnings Per Common Share



The TEUs have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share. The 1.9841 minimum shares to be issued are included in the calculation of basic weighted average shares outstanding. The 0.3969 difference between the minimum shares and the 2.3810 maximum shares are potentially dilutive, and accordingly, are included in our diluted earnings per share on a pro rata basis to the extent the applicable market value is higher than the reference price but less than the threshold appreciation price. See Note 13 for additional information regarding the calculation of earnings per share.



Capped Calls



In connection with the pricing of the TEUs sold in our public offering in fiscal year 2016, we purchased capped calls from third party banking institutions (Capped Calls) for $7,935. The initial Capped Calls were for 2,282 equivalent shares of our common stock with a strike price of $50.40, a cap price of $58.80 and an expiration date of July 1, 2019 (Capped Call Expiration). The value of the Capped Calls is settled with shares of our common stock, based on the approximate market value of our common stock at such time, and may be settled as the TEUs are early converted or settled upon Capped Call Expiration. 



During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017, we settled approximately 10% of the Capped Calls, which resulted in us receiving and retiring 12 shares of our common stock. During the three months ended December 30, 2017, no Capped Calls were settled. As of December 30, 2017, the range of shares of our common stock to be received under the outstanding Capped Calls was 0 to 293 shares, which will be realized if our stock price closes at or below $50.40 or at $58.80, respectively, upon Capped Call Expiration. Settlement of the Capped Calls prior to Capped Call Expiration may be for fewer shares than the maximum of 293 shares.



NOTE 13 EARNINGS PER SHARE 



Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income by the daily weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the applicable period. The TEUs are assumed to be settled at the minimum settlement amount of 1.9841 shares per TEU when calculating weighted-average common shares outstanding for purposes of basic earnings per share. 



Using the treasury stock method, diluted earnings per share includes the potentially dilutive effect of common shares issued in connection with outstanding stock-based compensation options and grants. The potentially dilutive effect of common shares issued in connection with outstanding stock options is determined based on the average market price for the period. For diluted earnings per share, the TEUs are assumed to be settled at a conversion factor based on our daily volume-weighted average price per share of our common stock for the 20 consecutive trading days preceding the end of the current fiscal quarter not to exceed 2.3810 shares of common stock per TEU.



Under the treasury stock method, shares associated with certain stock options have been excluded from the diluted weighted average shares outstanding calculation because the exercise of those options would lead to a net reduction in common shares outstanding or anti-dilution. As a result, stock options to acquire 496 and 663 weighted common shares have been excluded from the diluted weighted average common shares outstanding calculation for the three months ended December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, respectively. 



In connection with the pricing of the TEUs, we purchased Capped Calls. The Capped Calls will not be reflected in the calculation of diluted earnings per share until settled as they are anti-dilutive. See Note 12 for additional information on our equity instruments.







NOTE 14 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)



Other comprehensive income (loss), a component of shareholders' equity, consists of foreign currency translation adjustments, gains or losses on derivative instruments and defined benefit pension plan adjustments. 



















NOTE 15 BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION 



Our Chief Executive Officer (the Chief Operating Decision Maker) regularly reviews financial information for our two operating segments, Test and Sensors. Test provides testing equipment, systems and services to the ground vehicles, materials and structures sectors. Sensors provides high performance sensors for acceleration, position, vibration, motion, pressure and force measurement. 



In evaluating each segment's performance, our Chief Executive Officer focuses on income from operations. This measure excludes interest income and expense, income taxes and other non-operating items. Corporate expenses, including costs associated with various support functions such as human resources, information technology, legal, finance, and accounting, and general and administrative costs, are allocated to the reportable segments on the basis of revenue. The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as those described in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements found in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017. 



On January 5, 2017, we announced the division of our Test segment into two separate business units, "Materials Test Systems" and "Vehicles and Structure Test Systems." The division of our Test segment will result in us having three operating segments once discrete financial information is made available to our Chief Operating Decision Maker. We will continue to report only the Test and Sensors segments until such time. We continue to evaluate the timing of such implementation.







NOTE 16 RESTRUCTURING AND RELATED COSTS



During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017, we initiated a series of Test workforce reductions and facility closures intended to increase organizational effectiveness, gain manufacturing efficiencies and provide cost savings that can be reinvested in our growth initiatives. As a result, in the three months ended December 30, 2017, we recorded $93 of pre-tax severance and related expense and $162 of pre-tax facility closure costs. As of December 30, 2017, we have incurred a total of $3,177 of pre-tax expense, including $2,992 and $185 of pre-tax expense related to severance and facility closure costs, respectively. For the remainder of fiscal year 2018, we expect to incur $1,000 to $3,000 of additional pre-tax severance and related expenses and facility closure costs related to these actions. The majority of the expenses are expected to be paid in fiscal year 2018. 



During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017, in an effort to reduce costs and create economic efficiencies in Sensors, we initiated plans to close our Machida, Japan sales office in the second quarter of fiscal year 2018. In the three months ended December 30, 2017, we recorded an immaterial adjustment to the severance and related expense reported in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017. As of December 30, 2017, we have incurred a total of $112 of pre-tax severance and related expense. We expect to incur additional pre-tax severance and related expense of approximately $74. The majority of the expenses are expected to be paid in fiscal year 2018. 



Fiscal Year 2016 Restructuring



During fiscal year 2016, we initiated plans to reduce costs in Sensors by closing our Machida, Japan manufacturing facility in the third quarter of fiscal year 2017. We incurred $0 and $563 in the three months ended December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, respectively. As of December 30, 2017, we have incurred a total of $1,964 of pre-tax expense, including $1,444 and $520 related to severance and facility closure costs, respectively. The remaining severance and facility closing costs are expected to be paid during the third quarter of fiscal year 2018. 



Fiscal Year 2014 Restructuring



During fiscal year 2014, we initiated workforce and other cost reduction actions at certain of our Test locations in the U.S. and Europe. No restructuring expenses were recognized during the three months ended December 30, 2017 or December 31, 2016 related to these restructuring actions.















Item 1. Legal Proceedings



We are or may be involved in various legal proceedings from time-to-time arising from the normal course of business. We are not presently a party to any litigation the outcome of which we believe, if determined adversely to us, would individually or taken together have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flows or financial condition.



Item 1A. Risk Factors



A discussion of our risk factors can be found in Item 1A of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017. The information below includes additional risks relating to the enactment of U.S. federal income tax legislation, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, on December 22, 2017. The risks described below and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K are not the only risks we face. Additional risks not currently known to us, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, may also adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations in future periods.



The final impacts of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act could be materially different from our current estimates.



The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act) was signed into law on December 22, 2017. The new law made numerous changes to U.S. federal corporate tax law and is expected to reduce our effective tax rate for fiscal year 2018 and future periods. Effective January 1, 2018, the Tax Act lowers the U.S. corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% and prompts various other changes to U.S. federal corporate tax law, including the establishment of a territorial-style system for taxing foreign-source income of domestic multinational corporations. The tax benefit recorded for the three months ended December 30, 2017 involves significant judgment and assumptions as to the impact of the Tax Act. Our estimated impact of the new law is based on management's current knowledge and assumptions. Recognized impacts could be materially different from current estimates based on our actual results in fiscal year 2018. We expect to record any adjustments in the next year in accordance with the guidance provided in the SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, and these adjustments could be material. The full impact of the Tax Act on our business, operations and financial statements cannot be predicted at this time, and we make no assurances in this regard. 



