item1.txt
Early adoption is permitted.
ROU assets are evaluated for impairment in a manner consistent with the treatment of other long-lived assets.
Changes in estimates related to contracts accounted for using the cost-to-cost method of accounting are recognized in the period in which such changes are made for the inception-to-date effect of the changes, with the exception of contracts acquired through a business combination, where the adjustment is made for the period commencing from the date of acquisition.
Contract assets consist of unbilled receivables, which is the amount of revenue recognized that exceeds the amount billed to the customer, where right to payment is not just subject to the passage of time.
Contract liabilities consist of deferred revenue.
The increase in deferred revenue was primarily due to the timing of advance payments from customers offset by revenue recognized during the period.
Consequently, the carrying amount of goodwill was re-allocated among the reporting units for the purpose of testing goodwill for impairment for fiscal 2019.
This change resulted in the reallocation of $25 million of goodwill between the two reportable segments.
There were no goodwill impairments during the three months ended March 30, 2018.
The term of the lease is expected to end during fiscal 2020.
The term of the lease is expected to end during fiscal 2036.
Prior to the adoption of ASC 842, the consideration of $79 million was recorded as a financing transaction.
These swaps are designated as fair value hedges.
These swaps are designated as cash flow hedges.
The objective of these instruments is to hedge the Notes against changes in fair value due to the variability in the six-month LIBOR rate (the benchmark interest rate).
The resulting changes in the fair value of the interest rate swaps are fully offset by the changes in the fair value of the underlying debt (the hedged item) (See "Note 13–Debt").
The fair value of the Notes is stated at an amount that reflects changes in the six-month LIBOR rate subsequent to the inception of the interest rate swaps through the reporting date.
The purchase was recorded to "Additional paid-in capital" in the condensed consolidated balance sheets.


item2.txt
Effective the beginning of fiscal 2019, we changed the composition of our Defense Solutions reportable segment to better align the operations within the reportable segment to the customers we serve.
This resulted in the identification of new operating segments within Defense Solutions.
While this activity did not have a material impact on the Company's reportable segments, prior year segments results have been recast to reflect this change.
U.S. Government Markets In March 2019, the President submitted the GFY 2020 budget proposal to Congress.
Congress has begun the process of considering this proposal.
The decrease in operating income for the three months ended March 29, 2019, as compared to the three months ended March 30, 2018, was primarily due to higher net profit write-ups in the prior year quarter, partially offset by new awards.


item3.txt
Defaults Upon Senior Securities.


item4.txt
None.
Exhibits.


part2.txt
Legal Proceedings.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
Other Information.


