fls.txt



item1.txt
Financial Statements.
Leidos' domestic customers include the U.S. Department of Defense ("DoD"), the U.S. Intelligence Community, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, the Federal Aviation Administration, the Department of Veterans Affairs, several other U.S. government civil agencies and state and local government agencies.
As a result, Leidos increased its controlling ownership in MSA from 47% to 88% effective January 26, 2018.
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements also include the balances of all voting interest entities in which Leidos has a controlling voting interest (“subsidiaries”) and a variable interest entity ("VIE") in which Leidos is the primary beneficiary.
The consolidated balances of the Company’s VIE are not material to the Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for the periods presented.
Intercompany accounts and transactions between consolidated companies have been eliminated in consolidation.
The accompanying unaudited condensed financial information has been prepared in accordance with the rules of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP").
Certain disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules.
Certain amounts in the prior year financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
In May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09 (ASC 606) and related amendments, which superseded all prior revenue recognition methods and industry-specific guidance.
The core principle of ASC 606 is that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of control for promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
In applying the revenue principles, an entity is required to identify the contract(s) with a customer, identify the performance obligations, determine the transaction price, allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations and recognize revenue when the performance obligation is satisfied (i.e., either over time or point in time).
ASC 606 provides companies an option of two transition methods, the full retrospective method, in which case the standard would be applied to each prior reporting period presented and the cumulative effect of applying the standard would be recognized at the earliest period shown, or the modified retrospective method, in which case the cumulative effect of applying the standard would be recognized at the date of initial application.
The guidance was not applied to contracts that were complete at December 30, 2017, and the comparative information for the prior fiscal year has not been retrospectively adjusted.
The adoption of ASC 606 did not have a significant impact on the Company’s revenue recognition policy as revenues on the substantial majority of the Company's contracts continue to be recognized over time.
The Company also elected to adopt the right-to-invoice practical expedient on certain cost-reimbursable contracts where the Company recognizes revenues as it is contractually able to invoice the customer based on the control transfered to the customer.
In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-12, which simplifies the application of hedge accounting and improves the financial reporting of hedging relationships to better portray the economic results of an entity's risk management activities.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, which supersedes the current lease guidance under ASC 840 and makes several changes, such as requiring an entity to recognize a right-of-use asset and corresponding lease obligation on the balance sheet, classified as financing or operating, as appropriate.
The update is effective for public companies for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and should be adopted under the modified retrospective approach.


item2.txt
Unless indicated otherwise, references in this report to the "Company," "we," "us" and "our" refer collectively to Leidos and its consolidated subsidiaries.
U.S. Government Markets During the quarter ended March 30, 2018, we generated approximately 85% of our total revenues from contracts with the U.S. government.
Accordingly, our business performance is affected by the overall level of U.S. government spending, especially on national security, homeland security and intelligence, and the alignment of our service and product offerings and capabilities with current and future budget priorities of the U.S. government.
Sales to customers in international markets represented approximately 10% of total revenues for the quarter ended March 30, 2018.
Our international business increases our exposure to international markets and the associated international regulatory and geopolitical risks.
The decrease in revenues in constant currency(1) for the three months ended March 30, 2018, was 5.7% as compared to an actual decrease in revenues of 5.3%.
There was a foreign currency benefit attributable to our U.K. business in the Civil segment as compared to the same period in the prior year.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
Legal Proceedings.
This share repurchase authorization replaces the previous share repurchase authorization announced in December 2013.


