fls.txt



item1.txt
Financial Statements.
As a result, Leidos increased its controlling ownership in MSA from 47% to 88%.
Intercompany accounts and transactions between consolidated companies have been eliminated in consolidation.
The accompanying unaudited condensed financial information has been prepared in accordance with the rules of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP").
Certain disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules.
Certain amounts in the prior year financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09 ("ASC 606") and related amendments, which superseded all prior revenue recognition methods and industry-specific guidance.
The core principle of ASC 606 is an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of control for promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
In applying the revenue principles, an entity is required to identify the contract(s) with a customer, identify the performance obligations, determine the transaction price, allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations and recognize revenue when the performance obligation is satisfied (i.e., either over time or point in time).
ASC 606 provided companies an option of two transition methods, the full retrospective method, in which case the standard would be applied to each prior reporting period presented and the cumulative effect of applying the standard would be recognized at the earliest period shown, or the modified retrospective method, in which case the cumulative effect of applying the standard would be recognized at the date of initial application.
The guidance was not applied to contracts that were complete at December 30, 2017, and the comparative information for the prior fiscal year has not been retrospectively adjusted.
Under ASC 606, revenues on certain units-of-delivery contracts are now recognized using an over-time model.
In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-12, which simplifies the application of hedge accounting and improves the financial reporting of hedging relationships to better portray the economic results of an entity's risk management activities.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, which supersedes the current lease guidance under Leases (Topic 840) and makes several changes, such as requiring an entity to recognize a right-of-use asset and corresponding lease obligation on the balance sheet, classified as financing or operating, as appropriate.
The update is effective for public companies for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and should be adopted under the modified retrospective approach.
In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-10, Codification Improvements to Topic 842, Leases, to add clarity to certain areas within ASU 2016-02 and ASU 2018-11 "Targeted Improvements", to add an additional and optional transition method to adopt the new leases standard by allowing recognition of a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the period of adoption.
The potential impact on the consolidated financial statements will largely be based on the present value of future minimum lease payments, the amount of which will depend upon the population of leases in effect at the date of adoption.
Contracts with the U.S. government are subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulation ("FAR") and priced on estimated or actual costs of providing the goods or services.


item2.txt
On March 23, 2018, Congress passed and the President signed into law the Omnibus Appropriations Bill thereby funding the federal government through the end of the 2018 government fiscal year ("GFY").
The appropriations legislation passed earlier in the year suspended budget caps and included a two-year budget agreement that provided $300 billion in sequestration relief for defense and non-defense spending.
Defense programs saw additional funding of $80 billion and $85 billion in GFY 2018 and GFY 2019, respectively, and non-defense spending increased by $63 billion and $68 billion in GFY 2018 and GFY 2019, respectively, over the caps established in the Budget Control Act of 2011.
Earlier in the year, funding for the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Energy as well as funding for Congress were also enacted.
All were funded at increased levels from the previous year.
There are now seven appropriations bills operating under a continuing resolution, which will expire on December 7, 2018.
The increase in operating income for the nine months ended September 28, 2018, as compared to the nine months ended September 29, 2017, was primarily due to lower amortization, net profit write-downs in the prior year and new awards, partially offset by the completion of certain contracts.
The decrease in revenues for the nine months ended September 28, 2018, as compared to the nine months ended September 29, 2017, was primarily attributable to the completion of certain contracts and a net decrease in program volumes, partially offset by new awards, the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates due to the movement of the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the British pound and higher net profit write-ups in the current year.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 5.


part2.txt
Legal Proceedings.
This share repurchase authorization replaces the previous share repurchase authorization announced in December 2013.


