item1.txt
Item 1.
Financial Statements.
The core principle of ASC 606 is an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of control for promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
The ASU was effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017.
Under ASC 606, revenues on certain units-of-delivery contracts are now recognized using an over-time model.
Early adoption is permitted.
The potential impact on the consolidated financial statements will largely be based on the present value of future minimum lease payments, the amount of which will depend upon the population of leases in effect at the date of adoption.
Anticipated losses on service based contracts are recognized as incurred.
Unbilled amounts also include rate variances that are billable upon negotiation of final indirect rates with the DCAA.
The Note is payable semi-annually with a final lump sum due in July 2018.
The proposed Plan envisions raising new equity combined with reduction of Plainfield's debt.
The net realizable value of the Note, at December 29, 2017, was estimated to be approximately $40 million, compared to its carrying value of $73 million, including accrued interest.
As of June 29, 2018, Leidos has recognized a total of $52 million of expense in connection with these restructuring activities.
These swaps are designated as fair value hedges.
These swaps are designated as cash flow hedges.
The objective of these instruments is to hedge the Notes against changes in fair value due to the variability in the six-month LIBOR rate (the benchmark interest rate).
The resulting changes in the fair value of the interest rate swaps are fully offset by the changes in the fair value of the underlying debt (the hedged item) (See "Note 14–Debt").


item2.txt
The decrease in revenues for the three and six months ended June 29, 2018, as compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, was primarily attributable to the completion and reduced scope of certain contracts and a net decrease in program volumes, partially offset by new awards and the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates due to the movement of the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the British pound.
The decrease in revenues for the three and six months ended June 29, 2018, as compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, was primarily attributable to the completion of certain contracts, partially offset by net volume increases.
The decrease in operating income for the three and six months ended June 29, 2018, as compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, was primarily due to the completion of certain contracts and higher intangible asset amortization, partially offset by net volume increases.
For a discussion of these items, see "Note 20–Contingencies" and "Note 21–Commitments" of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements contained within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Contracts with the U.S. government are subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulation ("FAR") and priced on estimated or actual costs of providing the goods or services.
The FAR provides guidance on types of costs that are allowable in establishing prices for goods and services provided to the U.S. government and its agencies.
Each contract is competitively priced and bid separately.
Pricing for non-U.S. government agencies and commercial customers is based on specific negotiations with each customer.


item3.txt



item4.txt
None.


part2.txt
Legal Proceedings.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
Other Information.


