item1.txt
We recognize revenue when we satisfy performance obligations by the transfer of control of products or services to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those products or services.
Revenue is disaggregated into product sales and contract research and development to depict the nature, amount, timing of revenue recognition and economic characteristics of our business, and is represented within the financial statements.
We recognize contract research and development revenue over a period of time as the performance obligation is satisfied over a period of time rather than a point in time.
Contracts have specifications unique to each customer and do not create an asset with an alternate use, and we have an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date.
Accounts receivable is recognized when we have transferred a good or service to a customer and our right to receive consideration is unconditional through the completion of our performance obligation.
A contract asset is recognized when we have a right to consideration from the transfer of goods or services to a customer but have not completed our performance obligation.
A contract liability is recognized when we have been paid by a customer but have not yet satisfied the performance obligation by transferring goods or services.
Our performance obligations related to product sales and contract research and development contracts are satisfied in one year or less.
Unsatisfied performance obligations represent contracts with an original expected duration of one year or less.
As permitted under Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, we are using the practical expedient not to disclose the value of these unsatisfied performance obligations.
We also use the practical expedient in which we do not assess whether a contract has a significant financing component if the expectation at contract inception is such that the period between payment by the customer and the transfer of the promised goods or services to the customer will be one year or less.
ASU 2018-13 modifies the disclosure requirements for fair value measurements by removing, modifying, or adding certain disclosures.
The amendments in ASU 2018-13 will be effective for fiscal years beginning after  December 15, 2019, and interim periods within those fiscal years, which will be fiscal 2021 for us.
We adopted ASU 2018-13 early, effective the quarter ended  September 30, 2018.
ASU 2018-02 addresses the effect of the change in the U.S. federal corporate tax rate on items within accumulated other comprehensive income or loss due to the enactment of the Act “To provide for reconciliation pursuant to titles II and V of the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2018” (the “Tax Reform Act”) on  December 22, 2017.
Early adoption is permitted, and we adopted ASU 2018-02 in the quarter ended  June 30, 2018.
In  August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230), Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments, which made eight targeted changes to how cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows.
We adopted ASU 2016-15 retrospectively in the quarter ended  June 30, 2018.
ASU 2014-09 is based on the principle that revenue is recognized to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
It also requires additional disclosure about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customer contracts, including significant judgments and changes in judgments and assets recognized from costs incurred to obtain or fulfill a contract.
We adopted the guidance using the modified retrospective method to contracts that were not complete as of  April 1, 2018.
Our corporate bonds and money market funds are classified as available-for-sale securities and carried at estimated fair value.
Marketable securities as of  September 30, 2018 had remaining maturities between one and 55 months.
The following table shows the gross unrealized holding losses and fair value of our available-for-sale securities with unrealized holding losses, aggregated by class of securities and length of time that individual securities had been in a continuous unrealized loss position as of  September 30 and  March 31, 2018.
Stock-based compensation expense was $93,360 for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019, and $40,920 for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018.
Stock-based compensation expenses for the quarters and six months ended  September 30, 2018 and 2017 were due to the automatic issuance to our non-employee directors of options to purchase 1,000 shares of stock on their reelection to our Board.
We did not repurchase any of our Common Stock under the program during the quarter ended  September 30, 2018.


