fls.txt
Factors that may cause such variances include, but are not limited to, our dependence on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue, our high dependence on contracts with the U.S. federal government, our reliance in certain circumstances on single sources for supply of key product components, intense competition in the market segments in which we operate, the recent sale of our German operations in our TS segment, and the recent changes in the U.S. Tax laws.


item1.txt
Accounts receivable from Customer B totaled approximately $2.0 million, or 12%, and approximately $0.2 million, or 2%, of total consolidated accounts receivable as of December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018, respectively.
We are required to present earnings per share, or EPS, utilizing the two class method because we had outstanding, non-vested share-based payment awards that contain non-forfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents, which are considered participating securities.
The plan assets consist of an investment in a commingled fund which in turn comprises a diversified mix of assets including corporate equity securities, government securities and corporate debt securities.
Current capitalized fulfillment costs are within the account other current assets on the consolidated balance sheets.
The input method using labor hours expended relative to the total expected hours is used to recognize revenue for professional services.
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
The Company is a principal if it controls the good or service before that good or service is transferred to the customer.
Basic net income (loss) per common share is computed by dividing net income (loss) available to common shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period.
We record revenue as gross when the Company is a principal party to the arrangement and net of cost when we are acting as a broker or agent.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No.
The royalty agreement is longer than one year and managed service contracts are longer than one year.
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
It will also clarify when identifiable cash flows should be separated versus classified based on their predominant source or use.
This ASU should be applied retrospectively for the presentation of the service cost component and the other components of net periodic pension cost and net periodic postretirement benefit cost in the income statement and prospectively, on and after the effective date, for the capitalization of the service cost component of net periodic pension cost and net periodic postretirement benefit in assets.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No.
December 31, 2018, but did not account for revenue of 10% or more for the three months ended December 31, 2018.
Current capitalized fulfillment costs are within the account other current assets on the consolidated balance sheets.
Revenues from arrangements which include financing are allocated considering relative standalone selling prices of lease and non-lease components within the agreement.
Accounts receivable from Customer A was less than 10% of total consolidated accounts receivable as of December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018.
Revenues from arrangements which include financing are allocated considering relative standalone selling prices of lease and non-lease components within the agreement.


item2.txt
The $1.8 million decrease in Europe revenue is primarily due to decreased sales by our TS segment for the three month period ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the prior fiscal year period.
The decrease in HPP services revenues of $0.6 million for the period was primarily the result of a decrease of approximately $0.5 million in royalty revenues on high-speed processing boards related to the E2D program during the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2017.
The Modcomp GmbH's results have been recorded as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented.
Our revenues increased by approximately $2.4 million, or 14%, to $19.0 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to $16.6 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017.
Given these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.
No income taxes were provided as the transaction was a tax-free exchange in the U.K.
The income tax provision for the current period is not comparable to the same period of the prior year due to the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act in the prior year, changes in pretax income over many jurisdictions, and the impact of discrete items.
See Note 12 of our consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 for effects of initial adoption and Note 3 of our consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 for further details on our revenue recognition policy.


item4.txt
The Company evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2018.


