fls.txt
This management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this filing and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017.


item1.txt
No other customers accounted for 10% or more of total consolidated accounts receivable as of June 30, 2018.
The Company is evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-15 will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
The U.S. supplemental retirement plans have life insurance policies which are not plan assets but were purchased by the Company as a vehicle to fund the costs of the plan.
An entity may early adopt the standard but only at the beginning of an annual period for which it has not issued or made available for issuance financial statements (interim or annual).
This ASU requires the seller and buyer to recognize at the transaction date the current and deferred income tax consequences of intercompany asset transfers (except transfers of inventory).
It will also clarify when identifiable cash flows should be separated versus classified based on their predominant source or use.
CSPI and its subsidiaries develop and market IT integration solutions, advanced security and managed services, purpose built network adapters, and high-performance cluster computer systems to meet the diverse requirements of its commercial and defense customers worldwide.
The following table lists customers from which the Company derived revenues in excess of 10% of total revenues from continuing operations for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, and 2017.
2016-16, Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory, an amendment of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification.
On July 31, 2018, CSPi announced the completion of its sale of all of the stock of Modcomp GmbH, to Reply AG, pursuant to the terms of a Share Purchase and Assignment Agreement dated June 27, 2018.
The Company also provides for officer death benefits through post-retirement plans to certain officers of the Company in the U.S. All of the Company’s defined benefit plans are closed to newly hired employees and have been since September 2009.
We are required to present earnings per share, or EPS, utilizing the two class method because we had outstanding, non-vested share-based payment awards that contain non-forfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents, which are considered participating securities.


item2.txt
For the nine months ended June 30, 2018, the Company recognized an income tax expense of $1.2 million, which was primarily due to $1.1 million recorded in the first quarter for the Tax Act.
The decrease in HPP product revenues for the period of $0.4 million was primarily the result of a decrease of approximately $1.0 million in Multicomputer product line shipments, partially due to a large shipment in the prior fiscal year period, partially offset by an increase in Myricom product line shipments of $0.6 million for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to the nine months ended June 30, 2017.
Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the company's management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
The decrease in overall revenue for the nine month period ended June 30, 2018 as compared to prior fiscal year nine month period was substantially the result of an approximately $2.1 million decrease in our HPP segment revenue combined with a decrease of approximately $4.7 million in our TS segment.
 Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting.
The $1.3 million decrease in Asia is primarily the result of decreased product sales by our HPP segment to a major customer of approximately $1.0 million, combined with decreased sales by our TS segment of $0.3 million.
The identified material weakness is in connection with our controls over the revenue recognition process at our foreign subsidiaries, specifically whether revenue recognition criteria have been satisfied prior to recognizing revenue and the failure to sufficiently assess gross versus net revenue indicators to certain revenue transactions.
The $0.2 million decrease in Europe revenue is primarily due to decreased sales by our TS segment.
The overall HPP segment gross margin as a percentage of sales decreased to 60% for the period from 67% in the same prior year period.
The $6.9 million decrease in total revenues is primarily attributed to a $4.8 million decrease by our TS segment combined with a $2.1 million decrease by our HPP segment.
Our income tax expense decreased by approximately $144 thousand to $249 thousand for the three months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to an income tax expense of $393 thousand for the three months ended June 30, 2017.
Given these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.
The overall HPP segment gross margin as a percentage of sales decreased to 60% for the period from 67% in the same prior year period.
 The overall TS segment gross margin as a percentage of sales increased to 18% for the three month period ended June 30, 2018 from 16% for the three month period ended June 30, 2017.


item4.txt
During the three months ended June 30, 2018, management implemented process improvements in order to improve operations in our European division in connection with the identified material weakness noted above.
Our Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Financial Officer and other members of our senior management team supervised and participated in this evaluation.


