fls.txt
This management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this filing and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018.


item1.txt
There was no impairment related to fulfillment costs capitalized.
The input method using labor hours expended relative to the total expected hours is used to recognize revenue for professional services.
We record revenue as gross when the Company is a principal party to the arrangement and net of cost when we are acting as a broker or agent.
Equity-classified awards to nonemployees will now be measured at the grant date using fair value of the equity instruments the company is obligated to issue and recognition is associated with the probable outcome.
The input method using labor hours expended relative to the total expected hours is used to recognize revenue for professional services.
There were no previous period financial statement adjustments.
An estimate for professional services is made at the beginning of each contract based on prior experience and monitored throughout the services.
The Company operates in two segments, its High Performance Products (“HPP”) segment and its Technology Solutions (“TS”) segment.
Current capitalized contract costs are within the account other current assets on the consolidated balance sheets for the periods ended March 31, 2019 and September 30, 2018.
The Company's continuing operations has defined benefit and defined contribution plans in the U.K. and in the U.S.
The Company is evaluating the effect that ASU 2018-07 will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
Upon the closing of the Share Purchase Agreement, Reply AG paid to CSPI total cash at closing of approximately $14.4 million, which consisted of the original purchase price of $11.7 million plus an adjustment at closing for Net Cash (as defined in the Share Purchase Agreement) of approximately $2.7 million.
Incremental costs are related to commissions in the TS portion of the business.
Product and services are typically billed when shipped or as services are being performed.
Two additional customers, Customers D and E, accounted for accounts receivable of 10% or more as of March 31, 2019, but did not account for revenue of 10% or more for the three and six months ended March 31, 2019.
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments, an amendment of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification.


item2.txt
The $0.1 million decrease in revenue to Europe is primarily the result of decreased sales by our HPP segment of $0.2 million, partially offset by increased sales by our TS segment of $0.1 million.
The overall HPP segment gross margin as a percentage of sales decreased to 48% for the period from 54% in the same prior year period.
The income tax benefit was $0.1 million for the six months ended March 31, 2018 compared to income tax expense of $1.0 million in the same period of 2018.
The effective tax rate for the current quarter is 18.7%.
The overall HPP segment gross margin as a percentage of sales increased to 48% for the three months ended March 31, 2019 from 47% for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
The $0.6 million increase in revenue to Asia is primarily the result of increased sales by our HPP segment of Myricom product to a major customer.
The decrease in revenue is the result of a decrease of $0.1 million in our TS segment, combined with a $0.2 million decrease in our HPP segment.
Cash held by our foreign subsidiary in the United Kingdom totaled approximately $10.8 million as of March 31, 2019 as compared to $9.9 million as of September 30, 2018.
Based on our current plans and business conditions, management believes that the Company’s available cash and cash equivalents, the cash generated from the sale of our German operations, the cash generated from operations and availability on our lines of credit will be sufficient to provide for the Company’s working capital and capital expenditure requirements for the foreseeable future.
No income taxes were provided as the transaction was a tax-free exchange in the U.K.
Engineering and development expenses increased by $0.1 million to $1.53 million for the six months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to $1.46 million for the six months ended March 31, 2018.


item4.txt
Our Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Financial Officer and other members of our senior management team supervised and participated in this evaluation.


