fls.txt
Given these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
On December 19, 2017, the Company's board of directors declared a cash dividend of $0.11 per share which was paid on January 16, 2018 to shareholders of record as of December 29, 2017, the record date.
2014-15, Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entity’s Ability to Continue as a Going Concern, an amendment of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification.
The Company's pension plan in the United Kingdom is the only plan with plan assets.
2014-15, Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entity’s Ability to Continue as a Going Concern, an amendment of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification.
The Company is evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-15 will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
Diluted net income per common share reflects the maximum dilution that would have resulted from the assumed exercise and share repurchase related to dilutive stock options and is computed by dividing net income by the assumed weighted average number of common shares outstanding.
It requires management to assess, at each interim and annual reporting period, whether substantial doubt exists about an entity’s ability to continue as a going concern.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue to which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers.
The Company is evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-15 will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue to which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers.
To meet the diverse requirements of its commercial and defense customers worldwide, CSPI and its subsidiaries develop and market IT integration solutions, advanced security and managed services, purpose built network adapters, and high-performance cluster computer systems.
All of the Company’s defined benefit plans are closed to newly hired employees and have been since September 2009.
This ASU should be applied retrospectively for the presentation of the service cost component and the other components of net periodic pension cost and net periodic postretirement benefit cost in the income statement and prospectively, on and after the effective date, for the capitalization of the service cost component of net periodic pension cost and net periodic postretirement benefit in assets.
This expense has been recorded discretely in the quarter ending December 31, 2017.


item2.txt
The increase to the income tax expense was primarily due to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act which was enacted on December 22, 2017.
During the periods following our initial identification of the material weakness referred to above, management assessed various alternatives to remediate this material weakness and we implemented changes to our system of internal controls, which included the implementation of enhanced internal auditing procedures, whereby revenue transactions are subjected to an additional review process at the corporate level to ensure the correct accounting methodology is applied to all revenue transactions.
The net change to other income (expenses) of $149 thousand for the three months ended December 31, 2017 as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2016, was primarily driven by the net change of approximately $(147) thousand in the foreign exchange gain (loss) on foreign currency holdings in the current period as compared to the prior year period.
 Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting.
Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the company's management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
The TS segment revenues increase of $2.4 million was partially offset by a $0.3 million decrease in our HPP segment.
Cash held by our foreign subsidiaries located in Germany and the United Kingdom totaled approximately $5.8 million as of December 31, 2017 as compared to $4.6 million as of September 30, 2017.
Our gross margin percentage increased overall, from 22% of revenues for the three months ended December 31, 2016, to 23% for the three months ended December 31, 2017 due in part to an increase in higher margin TS segment service revenues.
If cash generated from operations is insufficient to satisfy working capital requirements, we may need to access funds through lines of credit, the equity markets, or other means.
During the periods following our initial identification of the material weakness referred to above, management assessed various alternatives to remediate this material weakness and we implemented changes to our system of internal controls, which included the implementation of enhanced internal auditing procedures, whereby revenue transactions are subjected to an additional review process at the corporate level to ensure the correct accounting methodology is applied to all revenue transactions.
The $1.8 million increase in revenue to Europe is primarily the result of increased sales by our TS segment U.K. division to U.S. division multi-national customer.


item4.txt
As previously disclosed in Item 9A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended September 30, 2017, our management identified a material weakness as of such date.
During the periods following our initial identification of the material weakness referred to above, management assessed various alternatives to remediate this material weakness and we implemented changes to our system of internal controls, which included the implementation of enhanced internal auditing procedures, whereby revenue transactions are subjected to an additional review process at the corporate level to ensure the correct accounting methodology is applied to all revenue transactions.


