fls.txt
The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”) is intended to assist in an understanding of our financial condition and results of operations.
This MD&A is provided as a supplement to, should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and accompanying Notes appearing elsewhere in this Report (the “Notes”).


item1.txt
Reclassifications include certain direct selling and bid and proposal costs from the “Cost of product sales and services” line item to the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) and in these Notes.
The guidance in this standard is principles-based, and, consequently, entities are required to use more judgment and make more estimates than under prior guidance, including identifying contract performance obligations, estimating variable consideration to include in the contract price and allocating the transaction price to separate performance obligations.
The core principle of this standard is that entities should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods and services.
We elected to apply the practical expedient related to backlog disclosures for prior reporting periods and the practical expedient related to evaluating the effects of contract modifications that occurred prior to the earliest period presented.
Retrospective application of this standard resulted in the recognition of a cumulative-effect adjustment of $15 million to reduce the opening balance of retained earnings at July 2, 2016.
This standard requires, among other things, the recognition of right-of-use assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for most lease arrangements and disclosure of certain information about leasing arrangements.
Companies may elect to use the modified retrospective approach for leases that exist or are entered into after the beginning of the earliest comparative period in the financial statements or to initially apply this standard at the adoption date and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the period of adoption.
We expect to adopt the new lease standard on June 29, 2019 by applying the standard at the adoption date and recognizing a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.
The majority of our current lease arrangements are classified as operating leases under existing GAAP lease guidance, and we expect they will continue to be classified as operating leases under the new standard.
Once we have configured the new lease management tool and have accumulated compatible lease data, we expect to measure the right-of-use assets and liabilities for leases in effect at the adoption date, which could be material.
During the three quarters ended March 29, 2019, we had options or other share-based compensation outstanding under two shareholder-approved employee stock incentive plans (“SIPs”), the Harris Corporation 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (As Amended and Restated Effective August 27, 2010) and the Harris Corporation 2015 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2015 EIP”).
The compensation cost related to our share-based awards that was charged against income was $14 million and $43 million for the quarter and three quarters ended March 29, 2019, respectively, and $13 million and $37 million for the quarter and three quarters ended March 30, 2018, respectively.
In cases where employees are required to render service until they are terminated in order to receive the termination benefits and will be retained beyond the minimum retention period, we record the expense ratably over the future service period.
From time to time, we have sold certain customer receivables under the RSA, which we continue to service and collect on behalf of the third-party financial institution.


item2.txt
The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”) is intended to assist in an understanding of our financial condition and results of operations.
This MD&A is provided as a supplement to, should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and accompanying Notes appearing elsewhere in this Report (the “Notes”).
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in our Fiscal 2017-2018 Update 8-K. •Space and Intelligence Systems, providing intelligence, space protection, geospatial, complete Earth observation, universe exploration, PNT, and environmental solutions for national security, defense, civil and commercial customers, using advanced sensors, antennas and payloads, as well as ground processing and information analytics.
Reclassifications include certain direct selling and bid and proposal costs from the “Cost of product sales and services” line item to the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) and in the Notes.
As described in more detail in Note S — Pending Merger in the Notes, we entered into the Merger Agreement with L3 and Merger Sub on October 12, 2018, pursuant to which we and L3 have agreed to combine in an all-stock merger of equals.
We and L3 continue to expect the merger to close in the previously announced time frame of mid-calendar year 2019, although we can give no assurances regarding the timing or occurrence of closing.
The increase in segment gross margin in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to higher volume and operational efficiencies, partially offset by program and product mix.
Segment gross margin as a percentage of revenue (“gross margin percentage”) decreased in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to program and product mix.
The decreases in segment ESA expenses and segment ESA percentage in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2018 reflected management of expenses on higher revenue.


item3.txt
We employ established policies and procedures governing the use of financial instruments to manage our exposure to such risks.


item4.txt



part2.txt
As described in Note R — Legal Proceedings and Contingencies in the Notes, in connection with our pending merger with L3 (see Note S — Pending Merger in the Notes for additional information), two putative class action lawsuits and one individual lawsuit were filed against the L3 Parties in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York between December 19, 2018 and January 15, 2019, and a third putative class action lawsuit, Kent v. L3 Technologies, Inc., et al., was filed against the L3 Parties and the Harris Parties in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware on January 4, 2019.
The complaint in the Kent lawsuit further alleged that the Harris Parties were liable for these violations as “controlling persons” of L3 within the meaning of federal securities laws.
On March 12, 2019, the parties to the actions entered into an agreement to settle all claims that were or could have been alleged in the action subject to, among other things, the supplementation by L3 of certain disclosures contained in the registration statement, which were reflected in a Current Report on Form 8-K filed by L3 with the SEC on March 13, 2019, and the dismissal of the four lawsuits, all of which were dismissed by March 18, 2019.
•The market price for shares of common stock of the combined company following the completion of the merger may be affected by factors different from, or in addition to, those that historically have affected or currently affect the market prices of shares of our common stock and L3 common stock.


