fls.txt
The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”) is intended to assist in an understanding of our financial condition and results of operations.
This MD&A is provided as a supplement to, should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and accompanying Notes appearing elsewhere in this Report (the “Notes”).


item1.txt
As used in these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) (these “Notes”), the terms “Harris,” “Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” refer to Harris Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.
The accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) have been prepared by Harris, without an audit, in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) for interim financial information and with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
The results for the quarter ended September 28, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the full fiscal year or any subsequent period.
The balance sheet at June 29, 2018 has been derived from our audited financial statements and reflects the adoption of Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), as amended (“ASC 606”), as described below under “Adoption of New Accounting Standards.” The balance sheet at June 29, 2018 does not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP for annual financial statements.
Reclassifications include certain direct selling and bid and proposal costs from the “Cost of product sales and services” line item to the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) and in these Notes.
Depending on the nature of the modification, we consider whether to account for the modification as an adjustment to the existing contract or as a separate contract.
Often, the deliverables in our contract modifications are not distinct from the existing contract due to the significant integration and interrelated tasks provided in the context of the contract.
Therefore, such modifications are accounted for as if they were part of the existing contract, and we may be required to recognize a cumulative catch-up adjustment to revenue at the date of the contract modification.
We determine the transaction price for each contract based on our best estimate of the consideration we expect to receive, which includes assumptions regarding variable consideration, such as award and incentive fees.
For contracts with multiple performance obligations, we allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation based on the relative standalone selling price of the good or service underlying each performance obligation.
The standalone selling price represents the amount for which we would sell the good or service to a customer on a standalone basis (i.e., not sold as a bundle with any other products or services).
As a result, the standalone selling prices of the goods and services in these contracts are typically equal to the selling prices stated in the contract, thereby, eliminating the need to allocate (or reallocate) the transaction price to the multiple performance obligations.
We recognize revenue for each performance obligation when (or as) the performance obligation is satisfied by transferring control of the promised goods or services underlying the performance obligation to the customer.
These arrangements are most prevalent in our Communication Systems segment and primarily involve the sale of secure tactical radios and accessories and other standard products.


item2.txt
The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”) is intended to assist in an understanding of our financial condition and results of operations.
This MD&A is provided as a supplement to, should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and accompanying Notes appearing elsewhere in this Report (the “Notes”).
Reclassifications include certain direct selling and bid and proposal costs from the “Cost of product sales and services” line item to the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) and in the Notes.
The increase in revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was due to higher revenue in all three of our segments.
The increase in gross margin in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to higher revenue in all three of our segments and productivity savings, partially offset by program and business revenue mix in our Communication Systems segment.
The increase in engineering, selling and administrative (“ESA”) expenses in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to higher bid and proposal and employment costs.
Our effective tax rate (income taxes as a percentage of income from continuing operations before income taxes) was 16.0 percent in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with 27.6 percent in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, our effective tax rate benefited from the tax rate reduction under the Tax Act, and in the first quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018, our effective tax rate benefited from the favorable impact of excess tax benefits related to equity-based compensation, and from several differences in GAAP and tax accounting related to investments.
The increase in income from continuing operations in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to the combined effects of the reasons noted above in this “Consolidated Results of Operations” discussion regarding the first quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018.
The increase in income from continuing operations per diluted common share in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to higher income from continuing operations and fewer diluted weighted average common shares outstanding due to repurchases of shares of common stock under our repurchase program during the last three quarters of fiscal 2018 and first quarter of fiscal 2019.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
These audits may result in assessments of additional taxes that are subsequently resolved with the authorities or ultimately through legal proceedings.
We believe we have adequately accrued for any ultimate amounts that are likely to result from these audits; however, final assessments, if any, could be different from the amounts recorded in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).
“Risk Factors” in our Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K.


