fls.txt
The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”) is intended to assist in an understanding of our financial condition and results of operations.
This MD&A is provided as a supplement to, should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and accompanying Notes appearing elsewhere in this Report (the “Notes”).


item1.txt
Reclassifications include certain direct selling and bid and proposal costs from the “Cost of product sales and services” line item to the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) and in these Notes.
The guidance in this standard is principles-based, and, consequently, entities are required to use more judgment and make more estimates than under prior guidance, including identifying contract performance obligations, estimating variable consideration to include in the contract price and allocating the transaction price to separate performance obligations.
The core principle of this standard is that entities should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods and services.
We elected to apply the practical expedient related to backlog disclosures for prior reporting periods and the practical expedient related to evaluating the effects of contract modifications that occurred prior to the earliest period presented.
Retrospective application of this standard resulted in the recognition of a cumulative-effect adjustment of $15 million to reduce the opening balance of retained earnings at July 2, 2016.
This standard requires, among other things, the recognition of right-of-use assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for most lease arrangements and disclosure of certain information about leasing arrangements.
Companies may elect to use the modified retrospective approach for leases that exist or are entered into after the beginning of the earliest comparative period in the financial statements or to initially apply this standard at the adoption date and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the period of adoption.
We have developed a project plan to evaluate the impact of this standard and design and implement future processes, tools and controls.
The majority of our current lease arrangements are classified as operating leases under existing GAAP lease guidance, and we expect they will continue to be classified as operating leases under the new standard.
During the two quarters ended December 28, 2018, we had options or other share-based compensation outstanding under two shareholder-approved employee stock incentive plans (“SIPs”), the Harris Corporation 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (As Amended and Restated Effective August 27, 2010) and the Harris Corporation 2015 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2015 EIP”).
The compensation cost related to our share-based awards that was charged against income was $15 million and $29 million for the quarter and two quarters ended December 28, 2018, respectively, and $13 million and $24 million for the quarter and two quarters ended December 29, 2017, respectively.
In cases where employees are required to render service until they are terminated in order to receive the termination benefits and will be retained beyond the minimum retention period, we record the expense ratably over the future service period.
From time to time, we have sold certain customer receivables under the RSA, which we continue to service and collect on behalf of the third-party financial institution.
Receivables sold pursuant to the RSA meet the requirements for sales accounting under ASC 860, Transfers and Servicing, and, accordingly, are derecognized from our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited) at the time of sale.


item2.txt
The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”) is intended to assist in an understanding of our financial condition and results of operations.
This MD&A is provided as a supplement to, should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and accompanying Notes appearing elsewhere in this Report (the “Notes”).
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in our Fiscal 2017-2018 Update 8-K.
Reclassifications include certain direct selling and bid and proposal costs from the “Cost of product sales and services” line item to the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) and in the Notes.
As described in more detail in Note S — Pending Merger in the Notes, we entered into the Merger Agreement with L3 and Merger Sub on October 12, 2018, pursuant to which we and L3 have agreed to combine in an all-stock merger of equals.
The increases in segment operating income and segment operating income as a percentage of revenue (“operating margin percentage”) in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.
The increase in segment gross margin, decrease in segment gross margin percentage, increase in segment ESA expenses and decrease in segment ESA percentage for the first two quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 were due to the same reasons as noted above regarding this segment for the second quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018.
The increases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the first two quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment for the first two quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
As described in Note R — Legal Proceedings and Contingencies in the Notes, in connection with our pending merger with L3 (see Note S — Pending Merger in the Notes for additional information), two putative class action lawsuits and one individual lawsuit were filed against the L3 Parties in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York between December 19, 2018 and January 15, 2019, and a third putative class action lawsuit, Kent v. L3 Technologies, Inc., et al., was filed against the L3 Parties and the Harris Parties in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware on January 4, 2019.
The complaints in the lawsuits contain substantially similar allegations contending, among other things, that the registration statement on Form S-4 in support of the pending merger misstates or fails to disclose certain allegedly material information in violation of federal securities laws.
The complaint in the Kent lawsuit further alleges that the Harris Parties are liable for these violations as “controlling persons” of L3 within the meaning of federal securities laws.
The complaints in all four lawsuits generally seek injunctive relief enjoining the merger, damages and costs, among other remedies.


