See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying unaudited financial statements of TransAct Technologies Incorporated (the "Company") have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP") for interim financial information.
Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by U.S. GAAP to be included in full year financial statements.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments considered necessary for a fair statement of the results for the periods presented have been included and are of a normal recurring nature.
These interim financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Assets and liabilities of such subsidiary have been translated at the end of period exchange rates, and related revenues and expenses have been translated at the weighted average exchange rates with the resulting translation gain or loss recorded in "Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax", in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
As of June 30, 2018, $208 thousand of the accrued product warranty liability is classified as current in "Accrued liabilities" in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and the remaining $95 thousand is classified as non-current in "Other liabilities".
The computation of diluted earnings per share excludes the effect of the potential exercise of stock awards, including stock options and restricted stock units, when the average market price of the common stock is lower than the exercise price of the related stock award during the period.
These outstanding stock awards are not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the effect would be anti-dilutive.
For the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, there were 196 thousand and 407 thousand, respectively, of potentially dilutive shares consisting of stock awards that were excluded from the calculation of earnings per diluted share.
For the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, there were 147 thousand and 732 thousand, respectively, of potentially dilutive shares consisting of stock awards that were excluded from the calculation of earnings per diluted share.
For the three months ended June 30, 2018, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per share, totaling $663 thousand, which was paid on June 15, 2018 to common shareholders of record at the close of business on May 21, 2018.
For the three months ended June 30, 2017, dividends declared and paid totaled $663 thousand, or $0.09 per share.
On December 22, 2017, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
SAB 118 provides a measurement period, not to exceed one year from the enactment of the Tax Reform Act.
The Company has not recorded any impacts of GILTI or BEAT in its consolidated financial statements for the quarter ended June 30, 2018.
However, our federal tax returns for the years 2014 through 2016 remain open to examination.
We expect $28 thousand of the $104 thousand of unrecognized tax benefits will reverse in 2018 upon the expiration of the statute of limitations.
As of June 30, 2018, we have $23 thousand of accrued interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions.
The Company maintains a valuation allowance against certain deferred tax assets where realization is not certain.
2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases for both parties to a contract (i.e., lessees and lessors).
The new standard requires lessees to apply a dual approach, classifying leases as either finance or operating leases based on the principle of whether or not the lease is effectively a financed purchase by the lessee.
This classification will determine whether lease expense is recognized based on an effective interest method or on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease, respectively.
A lessee is also required to record a right-of-use asset and a lease liability for all leases with a term of greater than 12 months regardless of their classification.
Leases with a term of 12 months or less will be accounted for similar to existing guidance for operating leases today.
The Company does have leases for equipment and real property which exceed 12 months and we are currently evaluating the impact that the adoption of ASU 2016-02 will have on our financial statements.
This ASU is intended to clarify the principles for recognizing revenue by removing inconsistencies in revenue requirements; providing a more robust framework for addressing revenue issues; improving comparability of revenue recognition practices across entities, industries, jurisdictions and capital markets; and providing more useful information to users of financial statements through improved revenue disclosure requirements.
Entities have the option of using either a full retrospective approach or modified retrospective approach to adopt the amended guidance.
The results for periods before 2018 were not adjusted for the new standard and no cumulative effective for the change in accounting was recognized through retained earnings at the date of adoption.
The Company's revenue recognition method prior to the adoption of ASC 606 can be found under Note 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies within the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017.
In accordance with ASC 606, a performance obligation is a promise in a contract with a customer to transfer a distinct good or service to the customer.
Some of our contracts with customers contain a single performance obligation, while other contracts contain multiple performance obligations (most commonly when contracts include product and extended warranties).
A contract's transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation and recognized as revenue when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied.
When there are multiple performance obligations within a contract, we allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation based on its standalone selling price.
To the extent the transaction price includes variable consideration, such as price protection, reserves for returns and other allowances, the Company estimates the amount of variable consideration that should be included in the transaction price utilizing either the "expected value" method or the "most likely amount" method depending on the nature of the variable consideration.
Variable consideration is included in the transaction price if, in the Company's judgment, it is probable that a significant future reversal of cumulative revenue under the contract will not occur.
For a majority of our revenue, which consists of printers, terminals, consumables, and replacement parts, the Company recognizes revenue as of a point of time.
The transaction price is recognized upon shipment of the order when control of the goods is transferred to the customer and at the time the performance obligation is fulfilled.
We also sell a software solution, EPICENTRAL™, that enables casino operators to create promotional coupons and marketing messages and to print them in real-time at the slot machine.
EPICENTRALTM is primarily comprised of both a software component, which is licensed to the customer, and a hardware component.
EPICENTRAL™ software and hardware are integrated to deliver the system's full functionality.
The transaction prices from EPICENTRAL™ software license and hardware are recognized upon installation and formal acceptance by the customer when control of the license is transferred to the customer.
For out-of-warranty repairs, the transaction price is recognized after completion of the repair work is completed and the printer or terminal is returned to the customer, as control of the product is transferred to the customer.
Performance obligations are satisfied over-time if the customer receives the benefits as we perform work, if the customer controls the asset as it is being produced, or if the product being produced for the customer has no alternative use and we have a contractual right to payment.
For our separately priced extended warranty and maintenance agreements (including free one-year maintenance received by the customers upon completion of EPICENTRAL™ installation) revenue is recognized over-time as the customer receives the benefit.
The transaction price from the maintenance services is recognized ratably over-time, using output methods, as control of the services is transferred to the customer.
For extended warranties, the transaction price is recognized ratably over the warranty period, using output methods, as control of the services is transferred to the customer.
In the cases where there is more than one performance obligation in a customer arrangement, the Company typically uses the "standalone selling price" method to determine the transaction price to allocate to each performance obligation.
The Company sells the performance obligations separately and has established standalone selling prices for its products and services.
In the case of an overall price discount, the discount is applied to each performance obligation proportionately based on standalone selling price.
Except for the changes below, we have consistently applied the accounting policies to all periods presented in the consolidated financial statements.
As noted above, we adopted ASC 606 using the modified retrospective approach which allows the Company to record any changes using the cumulative effect.
The adoption of the ASC 606 did not require the Company to record an adjustment to retained earnings at January 1, 2018 and did not have an impact on the consolidated income statement during the first six months of 2018, basic or diluted earnings per share, consolidated statement of cash flows or consolidated balance sheet at June 30, 2018.
Costs to Obtain a Contract – Costs to obtain a contract, such as sales commissions, were previously expensed as incurred.
The Company applied the practical expedient for contracts with customers for a term of twelve months or less, in accordance with ASC 340-40-25-4, which allows TransAct to continue to expense sales commissions as incurred, since the expected amortization period of the cost to obtain a contract is less than 12 months.
No amounts were capitalized as of the adoption of ASC 606 or as of June 30, 2018.
Remaining performance obligations represents the transaction price of firm orders for which a good or service has not been delivered to our customer.
As of June 30, 2018, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations was $6.0 million.
The Company expects to recognize revenue on $5.0 million of our remaining performance obligations within the next twelve months, with the balance of these remaining performance obligations recognized within the next 24 months.
The Company may, in the ordinary course of business, become a party to litigation involving collection matters, contract claims and other legal proceedings relating to the conduct of its business.
Information regarding risk factors appears in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in that Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The risks described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K are not the only risks facing our Company.
