See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying unaudited financial statements of TransAct Technologies Incorporated (“TransAct”, the “Company”, “we”, “us”, or “our”) have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S.
GAAP”) for interim financial information.
Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by U.S. GAAP to be included in full year financial statements.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments considered necessary for a fair statement of the results for the periods presented have been included and are of a normal recurring nature.
These interim financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2018 included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Remaining performance obligations represent the transaction price of firm orders for which a good or service has not been delivered to our customer.
As of June 30, 2019, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations was $4.3 million.
The Company expects to recognize revenue on $3.8 million of its remaining performance obligations within the next 12 months, $0.4 million within the next 24 months and the balance of these remaining performance obligations within the next 36 months.
As of June 30, 2019, $176 thousand of the accrued product warranty liability were classified as current in "Accrued liabilities" in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and the remaining $48 thousand was classified as non-current in "Other liabilities".
The computation of diluted earnings per share excludes the effect of the potential exercise of stock awards, including stock options and restricted stock units, when the average market price of the common stock is lower than the exercise price of the related stock award during the period.
These outstanding stock awards are not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the effect would be anti-dilutive.
For the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, there were 542 thousand and 196 thousand, respectively, of potentially dilutive shares consisting of stock awards that were excluded from the calculation of earnings per diluted share.
For the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, there were 542 thousand and 147 thousand, respectively, of potentially dilutive shares consisting of stock awards that were excluded from the calculation of earnings per diluted share.
For the three months ended June 30, 2019, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per share, totaling $671 thousand, which was paid on June 14, 2019 to common shareholders of record at the close of business on May 20, 2019.
For the three months ended June 30, 2018, dividends declared and paid totaled $663 thousand, or $0.09 per share.
Dividends declared and paid totaled $1.3 million, or $0.18 per share for both the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018.
The adoption requires a modified retrospective transition approach, applying the new standard to all leases existing at the date of initial application.
An entity may choose to use either (1) its effective date or (2) the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements as its date of initial application.
Consequently, financial information will not be updated, and the disclosures required under the new standard will not be provided for dates and periods before January 1, 2019.
The new standard requires lessees to apply a dual approach, classifying leases as either finance or operating leases based on the principle of whether or not the lease is effectively a financed purchase by the lessee.
This classification will determine whether lease expense is recognized based on an effective interest method or on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease, respectively.
A lessee is also required to record a right-of-use asset and a lease liability for all leases with a term of greater than 12 months regardless of their classification.
Leases with a term of 12 months or less will be accounted for based on existing guidance for operating leases.
If risks and rewards are conveyed without the transfer of control, the lease is treated as financing.
If the lessor does not convey risks and rewards or control, the lease is treated as operating.
We have elected certain practical expedients available under ASC 842 upon adoption.
We have applied the practical expedient which allows prospective transition to ASC 842 on January 1, 2019.
Under this transition practical expedient, we did not reassess lease classification, embedded leases or initial direct costs.
We have applied the practical expedient for short-term leases.
We have lease agreements that include lease and non-lease components, and we have not elected the practical expedients to combine these components for any of our leases.
The adoption of ASC 842 had no effect on our Consolidated Statement of Income or Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
Upon adoption of ASC 842, we recorded a $3.7 million right-of-use asset and a $3.9 million lease liability.
The adoption of the new standard had no impact on retained earnings.
We enter into lease agreements for the use of real estate space and certain other equipment under operating leases and we have no financing leases.
We determine if an arrangement contains a lease at inception.
Our leases are included in Right of use assets and Lease liabilities in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Right of use assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, the Company determines its incremental borrowing rate by using the rate of interest that the Company would have to pay to borrow on a collateralized basis over a similar term, an amount equal to the lease payments in a similar economic environment.
Our lease right of use assets exclude lease incentives.
Our leases have remaining lease terms of one year to eight years, some of which include options to extend.
The majority of our leases with options to extend provide for extensions of up to five years with the ability to terminate the lease within one year.
The exercise of lease renewal options is at our sole discretion and our lease right of use assets and liabilities reflect only the options we are reasonably certain that we will exercise.
Operating lease expense for the three and six months ending June 30, 2019 was $254 thousand and $509 thousand, respectively.
For the six months ended June 30, 2019, we recorded an income tax provision of $89 thousand at an effective tax rate of 8.7%, compared to an income tax provision during the six months ended June 30, 2018 of $483 thousand at an effective tax rate of 20.4%.
The effective tax rate for the both the second quarter of 2019 and six months ended June 30, 2019 was lower as it included the foreign-derived intangible income (“FDII”) deduction under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Reform Act”) as well as near breakeven pre-tax income in the second quarter of 2019.
The FDII deduction was not included in the effective tax rate for the second quarter of 2018 or six months ended June 30, 2018 as the interpretive guidance for the deduction was not yet released.
However, our federal tax returns for the years 2015 through 2017 remain open to examination.
We expect that $25 thousand of the $104 thousand of unrecognized tax benefits will reverse in 2019 upon the expiration of the statute of limitations.
As of June 30, 2019, we had $23 thousand of accrued interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions.
The Company maintains a valuation allowance against certain deferred tax assets where realization is not certain.
The Company may, in the ordinary course of business, become a party to litigation involving collection matters, contract claims and other legal proceedings relating to the conduct of its business.
upon exit.
We have taken certain actions in response to Brexit and in anticipation of E.U.
The actual effects of Brexit will depend upon many factors, including the final results of the Brexit negotiations.
