Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”) (our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, respectively), evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of September 30, 2019.
The term “disclosure controls and procedures,” as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the company’s management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives, and management necessarily applies its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures.
We identified the following control deficiencies that constituted material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2019.
We also determined that these material weaknesses existed as of December 31, 2018, March 31, 2019, and June 30, 2019.
 ●  We did not design and maintain effective controls over user access within the Company’s ERP system, Oracle, to ensure appropriate segregation of duties and to adequately restrict user access to appropriate personnel.
Specifically, the provisioning and user recertification controls are not designed to ensure users maintain proper segregation of duties and therefore could have inappropriate access rights (the “Access Control Weakness”).
 ●  We did not design and maintain effective controls over the completeness and accuracy of information included in key spreadsheets supporting our accounting records (the “Spreadsheet Control Weakness”).
 ●  To address the Access Control Weakness, we are utilizing the services of an Oracle consulting firm and an accounting firm unrelated to PwC, to assist us in analyzing and reviewing Oracle access for all users.
Upon completion of this analysis, we plan to modify the designated Oracle responsibilities for each employee for which a conflict has been identified to remove any Oracle transactional responsibilities that we believe are conflicting and reassign those responsibilities to a different employee to ensure proper segregation of duties.
In addition, we plan to enhance and implement provisioning and user certification controls to ensure we maintain the appropriate segregation of duties within Oracle following the analysis.
 ●  To address the Spreadsheet Control Weakness, for each key spreadsheet using Oracle data, we plan to evaluate and determine (1) if a standard Oracle report exists containing the same information as the spreadsheet, and if so, we would utilize the standard Oracle report (without modification) instead of the spreadsheet to support our accounting records and (2) if a standard Oracle report cannot be used, we will implement a new key control whereby an employee performs a formal validation that the information from Oracle is completely and accurately transferred (automatically or manually) to a spreadsheet by verifying totals and other information on a test basis.
For all other key spreadsheets, we plan to design and implement a new key control to validate completeness and accuracy of information supporting our accounting records.
We believe these steps will address the material weaknesses described above.
 Item 5.
None.
Item 6.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
