See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 
See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 
See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 
See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 
The financial position and results of operations of our U.K. subsidiary are measured using local currency as the functional currency. Assets and liabilities of such subsidiary have been translated at the end of period exchange rates, and related revenues and expenses have been translated at the weighted average exchange rates with the resulting translation gain or loss recorded in "Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax", in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. Transaction gains and losses are included in "Interest and other income (expense)" in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income. 
The results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full year. 
3. Accrued product warranty liability 
As of March 31, 2018, $196 thousand of the accrued product warranty liability is classified as current in "Accrued liabilities" in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and the remaining $82 thousand is classified as non-current in "Other liabilities". 
The computation of diluted earnings per share excludes the effect of the potential exercise of stock awards, including stock options and restricted stock units, when the average market price of the common stock is lower than the exercise price of the related stock award during the period. These outstanding stock awards are not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the effect would be anti-dilutive. For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, there were 147 thousand and 846 thousand, respectively, of potentially dilutive shares consisting of stock awards that were excluded from the calculation of earnings per diluted share.  
For the three months ended March 31, 2018, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per share, totaling $673 thousand, which was paid on March 15, 2018 to common shareholders of record at the close of business on February 20, 2018. For the three months ended March 31, 2017, dividends declared and paid totaled $587 thousand, or $0.08 per share.  
As of March 31, 2018, we had $104 thousand of total gross unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would favorably affect the effective income tax rate in any future periods. We expect $28 thousand of the $104 thousand of unrecognized tax benefits will reverse in 2018 upon the expiration of the statute of limitations. 
We recognize interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions in the income tax provision reported as "Deferred tax assets" in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. As of March 31, 2018, we have $20 thousand of accrued interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions. The Company maintains a valuation allowance against certain deferred tax assets where realization is not certain. 
ASU No. 2014-09," Revenue from Contracts with Customers" and its related amendments (collectively, ASC 606) are effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods therein. We adopted ASC 606 effective January 1, 2018 and elected the modified retrospective approach. The results for periods before 2018 were not adjusted for the new standard and any cumulative effective of the change in accounting was recognized through retained earnings at the date of adoption. 
In accordance with ASC 606, a performance obligation is a promise in a contract with a customer to transfer a distinct good or service to the customer. Some of our contracts with customers contain a single performance obligation, while other contracts contain multiple performance obligations (most commonly when contracts include product and extended warranties). A contract's transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation and recognized as revenue when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied. When there are multiple performance obligations within a contract, we allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation based on its standalone selling price. 
The transaction price is determined based on the consideration to which the Company will be entitled in exchange for transferring services to the customer. To the extent the transaction price includes variable consideration, such as price protection, reserves for returns and other allowances, the Company estimates the amount of variable consideration that should be included in the transaction price utilizing either the "expected value" method or the "most likely amount" method depending on the nature of the variable consideration. Variable consideration is included in the transaction price if, in the Company's judgment, it is probable that a significant future reversal of cumulative revenue under the contract will not occur. 
For a majority of our revenue, which consists of printers, terminals, consumables, and replacement parts, the Company recognizes revenue as of a point of time. The transaction price is recognized upon shipment of the order when control of the goods is transferred to the customer and at the time the performance obligation is fulfilled. We also sell a software solution, EPICENTRAL™, that enables casino operators to create promotional coupons and marketing messages and to print them in real-time at the slot machine. EPICENTRALTM is primarily comprised of both a software component, which is licensed to the customer, and a hardware component. EPICENTRAL™ software and hardware are integrated to deliver the system's full functionality. The transaction prices from EPICENTRAL™ software license and hardware are recognized upon installation and formal acceptance by the customer when control of the license is transferred to the customer. For out-of-warranty repairs, the transaction price is recognized after completion of the repair work is completed and the printer or terminal is returned to the customer, as control of the product is transferred to the customer. 
Performance obligations are satisfied over-time if the customer receives the benefits as we perform work, if the customer controls the asset as it is being produced, or if the product being produced for the customer has no alternative use and we have a contractual right to payment. For our separately priced extended warranty and maintenance agreements (including free one-year maintenance received by the customers upon completion of EPICENTRAL™ installation) revenue is recognized over-time as the customer receives the benefit. The transaction price from the maintenance services is recognized ratably over-time, using output methods, as control of the services is transferred to the customer. For extended warranties, the transaction price is recognized ratably over the warranty period, using output methods, as control of the services is transferred to the customer. 
In the cases where there is more than one performance obligation in a customer arrangement, the Company typically uses the "standalone selling price" method to determine the transaction price to allocate to each performance obligation. The Company sells the performance obligations separately and has established standalone selling prices for its products and services. In the case of an overall price discount, the discount is applied to each performance obligation proportionately based on standalone selling price. To determine the standalone selling price for initial EPICENTRAL™ installations, the Company uses the adjusted market assessment approach. 
Except for the changes below, we have consistently applied the accounting policies to all periods presented in the consolidated financial statements. As noted above, we adopted ASC 606 using the modified retrospective approach which allows the Company to record any changes using the cumulative effect. The adoption of the ASC 606 did not require the Company to record an adjustment to retained earnings at January 1, 2018 and did not have an impact on the first quarter consolidated income statement, basic or diluted earnings per share, consolidated statement of cash flows or consolidated balance sheet at March 31, 2018. 
Costs to Obtain a Contract – Costs to obtain a contract, such as sales commissions, were previously expensed as incurred. The Company applied the practical expedient for contracts with customers for a term of twelve months or less, in accordance with ASC 340-40-25-4, which allows TransAct to continue to expense sales commissions as incurred, since the expected amortization period of the cost to obtain a contract is less than 12 months. No amounts were capitalized as of the adoption of ASC 606 or as of March 31, 2018. 
Remaining performance obligations represents the transaction price of firm orders for which a good or service has not been delivered to our customer. As of March 31, 2018, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations was $8.4 million. The Company expects to recognize revenue on $6.3 million of our remaining performance obligations within the next twelve months, with the balance of these remaining performance obligations recognized within the next 24 months. 
 Item 1A.   RISK FACTORS     
