The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
The following discussion may contain forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates, and beliefs.
Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements as a result of many factors, including but not limited to those under the heading “Forward-Looking Information” and “Part II.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors.”
Forward-Looking Information
Certain statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the U.S.
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are based on our management’s beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to our management.
Forward-looking statements include, among others, the information concerning our possible or assumed future results of operations, business strategies, financing plans, competitive position, potential growth opportunities, potential operating performance improvements, acquisitions, divestitures, the effects of competition, and the effects of future legislation or regulations.
Forward-looking statements include all statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as the words “believe,” “expect,” “plan,” “intend,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “predict,” “potential,” “continue,” “may,” “should,” or the negative of these terms or similar expressions.
Forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions.
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.
Investors should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements.
We do not have any intention or obligation to update forward-looking statements after we file this report except as required by law.
The following and other risks, which are described in greater detail in “Part I.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors,” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2018, could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements:
