 PART II.
OTHER INFORMATION
 ITEM 1.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 There have been no material developments in our legal proceedings since we filed our Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2018, except as set forth in “Part II.
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings” in our Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q for the quarterly period ended December 28, 2018.
Refer to “Part I.
Item 3.
Legal Proceedings” in our Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2018 and ‘‘Part II.
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings’’ in our Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q for the quarterly period ended December 28, 2018 for additional information regarding legal proceedings.
 ITEM 1A.
RISK FACTORS
 There have been no material changes in our risk factors from those disclosed in “Part I.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2018.
The risk factors described in our Annual Report on Form 10‑K, in addition to other information in this report, could materially affect our business operations, financial condition, or liquidity.
Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations, financial condition, and liquidity.
 ITEM 2.
UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS
 Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
   (i)    the acquisition of 16,751 common shares from individuals in order to satisfy tax withholding requirements in connection with the vesting of restricted share awards issued under equity compensation plans; and
   (ii)    open market purchases totaling 2,347,300 common shares, summarized on a trade‑date basis, in conjunction with the share repurchase program announced in September 2007.
   (2)    Our share repurchase program authorizes us to purchase a portion of our outstanding common shares from time to time through open market or private transactions, depending on business and market conditions.
The share repurchase program does not have an expiration date.
 Table of Contents
 ITEM 6.
EXHIBITS
 Table of Contents
 SIGNATURES
 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
