Item 1A.
Risk Factors."
Our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in United States ("U.S.") dollars, in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. ("GAAP").
The following discussion includes organic net sales growth which is a non-GAAP financial measure.
See "Non-GAAP Financial Measure" for additional information regarding this measure.
Overview 

 TE Connectivity Ltd. ("TE Connectivity" or the "Company," which may be referred to as "we," "us," or "our") is a global technology and manufacturing leader creating a safer, sustainable, productive, and connected future.
For more than 75 years, our connectivity and sensor solutions, proven in the harshest environments, have enabled advancements in transportation, industrial applications, medical technology, energy, data communications, and the home.
• Our net sales in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased marginally relative to first quarter fiscal 2018 sales levels, with sales growth in the Industrial Solutions and Communications Solutions segments offset by declines in the Transportation Solutions segment.
On an organic basis, our net sales increased 1.9% during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
•Transportation Solutions—Our net sales decreased 2.3% in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 due primarily to sales declines in the automotive end market.
•Industrial Solutions—Our net sales increased 5.2% during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 primarily as a result of increased sales in the aerospace, defense, oil, and gas end market.
•Communications Solutions—Our net sales increased 2.6% in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 due primarily to sales increases in the data and devices end market.
• Net cash provided by continuing operating activities was $328 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Outlook  

 In the second quarter of fiscal 2019, we expect our net sales to be between $3.3 billion and $3.4 billion as compared to $3.6 billion in the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
This decrease reflects sales declines in the Transportation Solutions and, to a lesser degree, the Communications Solutions segments relative to the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
Additional information regarding expectations  


Table of Contents 



•Industrial Solutions—We expect our net sales growth in the aerospace, defense, oil, and gas end market to be offset by declines in the industrial equipment end market, where weakness in factory automation and controls applications is expected to be partially offset by growth in medical applications.
•Communications Solutions—We expect our net sales to decline in the appliances and the data and devices end markets primarily as a result of market weakness in the Asia–Pacific region.
We expect diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to be in the range of $1.13 to $1.17 per share in the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
This outlook reflects the negative impact of foreign currency exchange rates on net sales and earnings per share of approximately $155 million and $0.05 per share, respectively, in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
•Transportation Solutions—We expect our net sales to decrease in the automotive end market due primarily to market weakness in China and, to a lesser degree, the EMEA region.
We expect global automotive production to decline 4-5% in fiscal 2019.
•Industrial Solutions—We expect our net sales increase in the aerospace, defense, oil, and gas end market to be offset by declines in the energy end market.
•Communications Solutions—We expect our net sales to decline in the appliances and the data and devices end markets due primarily to market weakness in the Asia–Pacific region.
We expect diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to be in the range of $4.94 to $5.14 per share in fiscal 2019.
This outlook reflects the negative impact of foreign currency exchange rates on net sales and earnings per share of approximately $375 million and $0.16 per share, respectively, in fiscal 2019 as compared to fiscal 2018.
The above outlook is based on foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices that are consistent with current levels.
We are monitoring the current macroeconomic environment and its potential effects on our customers and the end markets we serve.
We continue to closely manage our costs in line with economic conditions.
Additionally, we are managing our capital resources and monitoring capital availability to ensure that we have sufficient resources to fund future capital needs.
See further discussion in "Liquidity and Capital Resources."
Discontinued Operations  

 During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we sold our Subsea Communications ("SubCom") business for net cash proceeds of $288 million and incurred a pre-tax loss on sale of $96 million.
The SubCom business met the held for sale and discontinued operations criteria and was reported as such in all periods presented on the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Prior to reclassification to  


Table of Contents 

discontinued operations, the SubCom business was included in the Communications Solutions segment.
See Note 3 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding discontinued operations.
Results of Operations 

  Net Sales  





 Net sales increased slightly in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
The increase in net sales resulting from organic net sales growth of 1.9% and sales contributions from an acquisition of 0.6% was offset by the negative impact of foreign currency translation of 2.2% due to the weakening of certain foreign currencies.
Price erosion adversely affected organic net sales by $28 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
See further discussion of net sales below under "Segment Results."
Net Sales by Geographic Region.
Our business operates in three geographic regions—EMEA, Asia–Pacific and the Americas—and our results of operations are influenced by changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
Increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar, compared to other currencies, will directly affect our reported results as we translate those currencies into U.S. dollars at the end of each fiscal period.
Approximately 60% of our net sales were invoiced in currencies other than the U.S. dollar in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Table of Contents 






  Cost of Sales and Gross Margin  



 Gross margin decreased $50 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
The decrease in gross margin was due primarily to price erosion, the negative impact of foreign currency translation, and lower manufacturing productivity, partially offset by lower material costs.
Gross margin as a percentage of net sales decreased to 33.3% in the first quarter of 2019 from 34.9% in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Cost of sales and gross margin are subject to variability in raw material prices which continue to fluctuate for many of the raw materials used in the manufacture of our products.
We expect to purchase approximately 190 million pounds of copper, 145,000 troy ounces of gold, and 2.7 million troy  


Table of Contents 



  Operating Expenses  



 Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses.
Selling, general, and administrative expenses increased $12 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 from the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
The increase resulted primarily from a gain on the sale of certain assets in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Selling, general, and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales increased to 11.6% in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 from 11.3% in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Restructuring and Other Charges, Net.
We are committed to continuous productivity improvements and consistently evaluate opportunities to simplify our global manufacturing footprint, migrate facilities to lower-cost regions, reduce fixed costs, and eliminate excess capacity.
These initiatives are designed to help us maintain our competitiveness in the industry, improve our operating leverage, and position us for future growth.
During fiscal 2019, we initiated a restructuring program associated with footprint consolidation and structural improvements impacting all segments.
During fiscal 2018, we initiated a restructuring program associated with footprint consolidation and structural improvements primarily impacting the Industrial Solutions and Transportation Solutions segments.
In connection with these initiatives, we incurred net restructuring charges of $75 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, of which $67 million related to the fiscal 2019 restructuring program.
Annualized cost savings related to fiscal 2019 actions commenced during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 are expected to be approximately $60 million and are expected to be realized by the end of fiscal 2020.
Cost savings will be reflected primarily in cost of sales and selling, general, and administrative expenses.
Currently, we expect fiscal 2019 net restructuring charges to be at least at fiscal 2018 levels, and we expect total spending, which will be funded with cash from operations, to be approximately $160 million.
However, as a result of market conditions, we are considering restructuring options and may broaden the scope of our cost initiatives and accelerate cost reduction and footprint consolidation activities.
See Note 2 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding net restructuring and other charges.
Table of Contents 

  Operating Income  





 See discussion of operating income below under "Segment Results."
Non-Operating Items  



 Income Taxes.
See Note 11 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of items impacting income tax expense for the first quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018.
Loss from Discontinued Operations, Net of Income Taxes.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we sold our SubCom business for net cash proceeds of $288 million and incurred a pre-tax loss on sale of $96 million.
The transaction is subject to a final working capital adjustment.
The net sales of the business were $41 million and $143 million in the first quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The results for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 represent one month of activity.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, net sales and operating income were negatively impacted by production delays on a program.
See Note 3 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding discontinued operations.
Table of Contents 

 Segment Results 

  Transportation Solutions  







•Automotive—Our organic net sales decreased 0.6% in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 with declines of 3.5% and 2.7% in the Asia–Pacific and EMEA regions, respectively, partially offset by growth of 11.9% in the Americas region.
Our declines in the Asia–Pacific and EMEA regions were driven by market weakness.
In the Americas region, our growth resulted from electronification and market share gains in North America.
•Commercial transportation—Our organic net sales increased 1.7% in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 due to content gains as well as growth in the Americas and EMEA regions, partially offset by weakness in the heavy truck market in China.
•Sensors—Our organic net sales increased 3.8% in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 due primarily to growth in the industrial equipment market.
Table of Contents  





Excluding these items, operating income decreased in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 due primarily to lower manufacturing productivity, price erosion, and the negative impact of foreign currency translation.
Industrial Solutions  





Table of Contents 




•Industrial equipment—Our organic net sales decreased 0.5% in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 due primarily to market weakness in factory automation and controls, partially offset by strength in medical applications.
•Aerospace, defense, oil, and gas—Our organic net sales increased 12.7% in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 as a result of strength in the commercial aerospace, defense, and oil and gas markets.
•Energy—Our organic net sales increased 5.8% in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 due primarily to strength in the Americas region.
Table of Contents 



Excluding these items, operating income increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 primarily as a result of higher volume.
Communications Solutions  






 Net sales in the Communications Solutions segment increased $11 million, or 2.6%, in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2018 due to organic net sales growth of  


Table of Contents 


•Data and devices—Our organic net sales increased 9.3% in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 with growth in all regions, primarily attributable to growth in high speed connectivity in data center applications.
•Appliances—Our organic net sales decreased 1.7% in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 due primarily to market weakness in the Asia–Pacific region, partially offset by growth in North America.
Excluding these items, operating income decreased slightly in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Liquidity and Capital Resources 

 Our ability to fund our future capital needs will be affected by our ability to continue to generate cash from operations and may be affected by our ability to access the capital markets, money markets, or other sources of funding, as well as the capacity and terms of our financing arrangements.
We believe that cash generated from operations and, to the extent necessary, these other sources of potential funding will be sufficient to meet our anticipated capital needs for the foreseeable future, including the payment of $250 million of 2.35% senior notes due in 2019.
We may use excess cash to purchase a portion of our common shares pursuant to our authorized share repurchase program, to acquire strategic businesses or product lines, to pay dividends on our common shares, or to reduce our outstanding debt.
The cost or availability of future funding may be impacted by financial market conditions.
We will continue to monitor financial markets and respond as necessary to changing conditions.
Cash Flows from Operating Activities  

 In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, net cash provided by continuing operating activities increased $45 million to $328 million from $283 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
The increase resulted primarily from higher collections of accounts receivable, partially offset by a decrease in pre-tax income levels.
Table of Contents  

 The amount of income taxes paid, net of refunds, during the first quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018 was $75 million and $82 million, respectively.
Cash Flows from Investing Activities  

 Capital expenditures were $210 million and $237 million in the first quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively.
We expect fiscal 2019 capital spending levels to be approximately 5-6% of net sales.
We believe our capital funding levels are adequate to support new programs, and we continue to invest in our manufacturing infrastructure to further enhance productivity and manufacturing capabilities.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we received net cash proceeds of $288 million related to the sale of our SubCom business.
See additional information in Note 3 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Cash Flows from Financing Activities and Capitalization  

 Total debt at December 28, 2018 and September 28, 2018 was $3,967 million and $4,000 million, respectively.
See Note 7 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding debt.
During November 2018, Tyco Electronics Group S.A. ("TEGSA"), our 100%-owned subsidiary, issued $350 million aggregate principal amount of senior floating rate notes due June 2020.
The notes bear interest at a rate of three-month London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") plus 0.45% per year.
The notes are TEGSA's unsecured senior obligations and rank equally in right of payment with all existing and any future senior indebtedness of TEGSA and senior to any subordinated indebtedness that TEGSA may incur.
During December 2018, TEGSA repaid, at maturity, $325 million 2.375% senior notes due 2018.
TEGSA has a five-year unsecured senior revolving credit facility ("Credit Facility") with total commitments of $1,500 million.
The Credit Facility was amended in November 2018 primarily to extend the maturity date from December 2020 to November 2023.
The amended Credit Facility contains provisions that allow for incremental commitments of up to $500 million, an option to temporarily increase the financial ratio covenant following a qualified acquisition, and borrowings in designated currencies.
TEGSA had no borrowings under the Credit Facility at December 28, 2018 or September 28, 2018.
The Credit Facility contains a financial ratio covenant providing that if, as of the last day of each fiscal quarter, our ratio of Consolidated Total Debt to Consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the Credit Facility) for the then most recently concluded period of four consecutive fiscal quarters exceeds 3.75 to 1.0, an Event of Default (as defined in the Credit Facility) is triggered.
The Credit Facility and our other debt agreements contain other customary covenants.
None of our covenants are presently considered restrictive to our operations.
As of December 28, 2018, we were in compliance with all of our debt covenants and believe that we will continue to be in compliance with our existing covenants for the foreseeable future.
In addition to the Credit Facility, TEGSA is the borrower under our senior notes and commercial paper.
TEGSA's payment obligations under its senior notes, commercial paper, and Credit Facility are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by its parent, TE Connectivity Ltd.  

 Payments of common share dividends to shareholders were $150 million and $141 million in the first quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, our board of directors authorized an increase of $1.5 billion in the share repurchase program.
We repurchased approximately 6 million of our common shares for $495 million and approximately 2 million of our common shares for $214 million under our share  


Table of Contents 

repurchase program during the first quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively.
At December 28, 2018, we had $2.0 billion of availability remaining under our share repurchase authorization.
Commitments and Contingencies 

  Legal Proceedings  

 In the normal course of business, we are subject to various legal proceedings and claims, including patent infringement claims, product liability matters, employment disputes, disputes on agreements, other commercial disputes, environmental matters, antitrust claims, and tax matters, including non-income tax matters such as value added tax, sales and use tax, real estate tax, and transfer tax.
Although it is not feasible to predict the outcome of these proceedings, based upon our experience, current information, and applicable law, we do not expect that the outcome of these proceedings, either individually or in the aggregate, will have a material effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows.
Guarantees  

 In certain instances, we have guaranteed the performance of third parties and provided financial guarantees for uncompleted work and financial commitments.
The terms of these guarantees vary with end dates ranging from fiscal 2019 through the completion of such transactions.
The guarantees would be triggered in the event of nonperformance, and the potential exposure for nonperformance under the guarantees would not have a material effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows.
At December 28, 2018, we had outstanding letters of credit, letters of guarantee, and surety bonds of $286 million.
As discussed above, in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we sold our SubCom business.
In connection with the sale, we contractually agreed to continue to honor performance guarantees and letters of credit related to the SubCom business' projects that existed as of the date of sale.
These guarantees have a combined value of approximately $1.7 billion and are expected to expire at various dates through fiscal 2025; however, the majority are expected to expire within two years.
Also, under the terms of the definitive agreement, we are required to issue up to $300 million of new performance guarantees, subject to certain limitations, for projects entered into by the SubCom business following the sale for a period of up to three years.
During the quarter ended December 28, 2018, we issued a guarantee of $70 million for a new project.
We have contractual recourse against the SubCom business if we are required to perform on any SubCom guarantees; however, based on historical experience, we do not anticipate having to perform.
See Note 3 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the divestiture of the SubCom business.
Table of Contents 

 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

 The preparation of the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities, and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses.
Our accounting policies for revenue recognition, goodwill and other intangible assets, income taxes, and pension liabilities are based on, among other things, judgments and assumptions made by management.
For additional information regarding these policies and the underlying accounting assumptions and estimates used in these policies, refer to the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2018.
Except as set forth below, there were no significant changes to this information during the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Revenue Recognition  

 We adopted ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
See Note 1 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our revenue recognition policy and the adoption of ASC 606.
Accounting Pronouncements 

 See Note 1 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding recently adopted accounting pronouncements.
Non-GAAP Financial Measure 

  Organic Net Sales Growth  

 We present organic net sales growth as we believe it is appropriate for investors to consider this adjusted financial measure in addition to results in accordance with GAAP.
Organic net sales growth represents net sales growth (the most comparable GAAP financial measure) excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rates, and acquisitions and divestitures that occurred in the preceding twelve months, if any.
Organic net sales growth is a useful measure of our performance because it excludes items that are not completely under management's control, such as the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, and items that do not reflect the underlying growth of the company, such as acquisition and divestiture activity.
Organic net sales growth provides useful information about our results and the trends of our business.
Management uses organic net sales growth to monitor and evaluate performance.
Also, management uses organic net sales growth together with GAAP financial measures in its decision-making processes related to the operations of our reportable segments and our overall company.
It is also a significant component in our incentive compensation plans.
We believe that investors benefit from having access to the same financial measures that management uses in evaluating operations.
The tables presented in "Results of Operations" and "Segment Results" provide reconciliations of organic net sales growth to net sales growth calculated in accordance with GAAP.
Organic net sales growth is a non-GAAP financial measure and should not be considered a replacement for results in accordance with GAAP.
This non-GAAP financial measure may not be comparable to similarly-titled measures reported by other companies.
The primary limitation of this measure is that it excludes the financial impact of items that would otherwise either increase or decrease our reported results.
This limitation is best addressed by using organic net sales growth in combination with net sales growth in order to better understand the amounts, character, and impact of any increase or decrease in reported amounts.
Table of Contents 

 Forward-Looking Information 

 Certain statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the U.S.
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are based on our management's beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to our management.
Forward-looking statements include, among others, the information concerning our possible or assumed future results of operations, business strategies, financing plans, competitive position, potential growth opportunities, potential operating performance improvements, acquisitions, divestitures, the effects of competition, and the effects of future legislation or regulations.
Forward-looking statements include all statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as the words "believe," "expect," "plan," "intend," "anticipate," "estimate," "predict," "potential," "continue," "may," "should," or the negative of these terms or similar expressions.
Forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions.
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.
Investors should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements.
We do not have any intention or obligation to update forward-looking statements after we file this report except as required by law.
The following and other risks, which are described in greater detail in "Part I.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors," in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2018, could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements:   

• conditions in the global or regional economies and global capital markets, and cyclical industry conditions;   

• conditions affecting demand for products in the industries we serve, particularly the automotive industry;   

• competition and pricing pressure;  

• market acceptance of our new product introductions and product innovations and product life cycles;  

• raw material availability, quality, and cost;  

• fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and impacts of offsetting hedges;  

• financial condition and consolidation of customers and vendors;  

• reliance on third-party suppliers;  

• risks associated with current and future acquisitions and divestitures;  

• global risks of business interruptions such as natural disasters and political, economic, and military instability;   

• risks associated with security breaches and other disruptions to our information technology infrastructure;   

• risks related to compliance with current and future environmental and other laws and regulations;  

• our ability to protect our intellectual property rights;  

• risks of litigation;  

• our ability to operate within the limitations imposed by our debt instruments;   


Table of Contents   

• the possible effects on us of various non-U.S. and U.S. legislative proposals and other initiatives that, if adopted, could materially increase our worldwide corporate effective tax rate and negatively impact our U.S. government contracts business;  

• various risks associated with being a Swiss corporation;  

• the impact of fluctuations in the market price of our shares; and  

• the impact of certain provisions of our articles of association on unsolicited takeover proposals.
There may be other risks and uncertainties that we are unable to predict at this time or that we currently do not expect to have a material adverse effect on our business.
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 

 In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we expanded our cross-currency swap program to hedge our net investment in certain foreign operations.
The aggregate notional value of this program was $952 million at December 28, 2018.
See Note 9 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding our exposures to market risk.
There have been no significant changes in our exposures to market risk during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, except for the item noted above.
For further discussion of our exposures to market risk, refer to "Part II.
Item 7A.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2018.
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 

  Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures  

 Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934), as of December 28, 2018.
Based on that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 28, 2018.
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  

 During the quarter ended December 28, 2018, there were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
Table of Contents  

 PART II.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 

 There have been no material developments in our legal proceedings since we filed our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2018, except as set forth below.
Refer to "Part I.
Item 3.
Legal Proceedings" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2018 for additional information regarding legal proceedings.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, one of our manufacturing sites in China was found to have failed to complete the environmental impact assessment inspection for certain of its production lines and assets within the mandatory timeframe as defined within applicable environmental regulation.
At the request of the Shanghai Xuhui Environmental Protection Bureau, we are taking remedial actions to cure the deficiencies, and we paid an administrative penalty in the amount of 700,000 Chinese renminbi (approximately $0.1 million using an exchange rate of $0.15 per renminbi).
We do not anticipate that any monetary sanctions or remedial actions we take will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows.
RISK FACTORS 

 There have been no material changes in our risk factors from those disclosed in "Part I.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2018.
The risk factors described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, in addition to other information in this report, could materially affect our business operations, financial condition, or liquidity.
Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations, financial condition, and liquidity.
UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS 

  Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  








Table of Contents 



‡Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement 




Table of Contents  

 SIGNATURES 

 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
