We are the world’s leading cloud software company powering social good. Serving the entire social good community—nonprofits, foundations, companies, education institutions, healthcare organizations and individual change agents—we connect and empower organizations to increase their impact through cloud software, services, expertise and data intelligence. Our portfolio is tailored to the unique needs of vertical markets, with solutions for fundraising and CRM, marketing, advocacy, peer-to-peer fundraising, corporate social responsibility, school management, ticketing, grantmaking, financial management, payment processing and analytics. Serving the industry for more than three decades, we are headquartered in Charleston, South Carolina and have operations in the United States, Australia, Canada, Costa Rica and the United Kingdom.
During the first quarter of 2019, we announced the U.S. launch of Blackbaud Peer-to-Peer Fundraising, powered by JustGiving. This new solution enables all social good organizations to empower supporters to fundraise on their behalf. The launch elevates our peer-to-peer portfolio by providing our best-in-class cloud solution at no subscription cost. 
We also introduced Blackbaud Purchase Cards integrated with Expense Management in Financial Edge NXT providing social good organizations with an efficient and convenient alternative to traditional procurement methods and paper-based payables processes such as checks, purchase orders, and invoices. The result for our customers is decentralized daily purchasing while implementing and monitoring the right controls in a scalable way, enabling them to realize benefits such as reductions in procurement cycle time, increased savings through supplier discounts, and working capital and cash flow improvements.
We continue to progress in our early adopter program for our new Cloud Solution for Faith Communities with our first wave of early adopter customers now live on our Church Management Solution using it to run their day-to-day operations in close collaboration with our product teams.
The market response to our expanded Education Management portfolio for Higher Education has been positive, with Blackbaud SKY enabling us to extend our proven K-12 Private School solutions up-market. Our Education Management portfolio consists of Student Information, Learning Management, Tuition Management as well as Financial Edge NXT and Raiser's Edge NXT.
We continue to build on our partnership with Microsoft to jointly-develop, co-market and co-sell innovative software technology that will advance the industry. Our first jointly-developed solution, Nonprofit Resource Management, is currently in development, and we are working in close collaboration with early adopters.
Selling modern, integrated cloud-solutions that are purpose-built for our customers' needs is a key competitive differentiator for our sales teams. We spent much of 2018 working to simplify our program and refine our methodology and approach in a uniform way to better enable our salespeople with process and practice. In the second half of 2018, we ramped our direct sales hiring more significantly than in the past and those new hires are progressing well towards targeted productivity. We expect to continue making investments during the remainder of 2019 and beyond. During the first quarter of 2019, we implemented a common sales leadership framework across the Company, providing our sales managers with best practice tools and training necessary to be successful. With the sales structure transformation now largely done, the focus going forward will be adding additional sales headcount and improving productivity.
3.Expand TAM into Near Adjacencies through Acquisitions and Product Investments
We are continuing to expand our total addressable market ("TAM") into new and near adjacencies with acquisitions and product investments. In January 2019, we added another half-billion dollars in TAM when we completed our acquisition of YourCause, an industry leader in enterprise corporate social responsibility and employee engagement technology. Adding YourCause’s capabilities in workplace giving and volunteering to Blackbaud’s cloud software platform, data intelligence, services and expertise in philanthropy and engagement is expected to drive effectiveness for companies and the broader social good community. Our TAM now stands at over $10 billion, and we remain active in the evaluation of opportunities to further expand our addressable market through acquisitions and internal product development.
We are focused on operational efficiency to strengthen the business and position us for long-term success. We continue to execute a comprehensive workplace and workforce strategy, driving towards a more scalable operating model that creates efficiency and consistency in how we execute through infrastructure investments, productivity initiatives, and organizational re-alignments. We have continued executing against our workplace strategy, working to replace and upgrade some of our existing offices and expand our footprint into new locations for customer facing roles. This has been a multi-year program for us, and we expect to be largely complete by the end of 2019.
The increase in total revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018, was primarily driven by growth in recurring revenue as we continue to see positive demand from customers across our portfolio of cloud-based solutions. The acquisitions of Reeher and YourCause, which occurred after March 31, 2018, also contributed to the increases in recurring and total revenue. As expected, one-time services and other revenue declined $5.6 million during the three months ended March 31, 2019 due to our continued shift in focus towards selling cloud-based subscription solutions. In general, our cloud-based solutions include integrated analytics, training and payments services, and require less implementation services and little to no customization services. We are also selling more subscription-based contracts for professional services and services embedded in our renewable cloud-based solution contracts. As a result, we continue to expect one-time services and other revenue to decline.
Income from operations decreased during the three months ended March 31, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018. The positive impact of growth in total revenue driven by recurring subscriptions was offset primarily by investments we are making in our sales organization and innovation, which we expect to continue in 2019 and beyond. Increases in stock-based compensation of $2.6 million, employee severance of $2.5 million, rent expense of $1.6 million, restructuring costs of $1.1 million and amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $1.1 million also negatively impacted income from operations during the three months ended March 31, 2019. The increase in stock-based compensation expense was primarily driven by an increase in the grant date fair value of our annual equity awards granted to employees during the first quarter of 2019, when compared to the grant date fair value of the awards granted during the same period in 2018. The increase in rent expense was primarily associated with the lease for our New Headquarters Facility in Charleston, South Carolina, which commenced in April 2018.
Our recurring revenue contracts are generally for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter. We anticipate a continued decrease in maintenance contract renewals as we transition our solution portfolio and maintenance customers from a perpetual license-based model to a cloud-based subscription delivery model. In the long term, we also anticipate an increase in recurring subscription contract renewals as we continue focusing on innovation, quality and the integration of our cloud-based solutions, which we believe will provide value-adding capabilities to better address our customers' needs. Due primarily to these factors, we believe a recurring revenue customer retention measure that combines recurring subscription, maintenance and service customer contracts provides a better representation of our customers' overall behavior. For the twelve months ended March 31, 2019, approximately 92% of our customers with recurring revenue contracts were retained. This customer retention rate is unchanged from our rate for the full year ended December 31, 2018 and modestly lower than our historical customer retention rates driven by our efforts to rationalize our portfolio of solutions and migrate customers from legacy solutions towards our next generation cloud-based solutions. We are investing in innovation and our customer success program, which we believe will increase customer retention over the long-term.
At March 31, 2019, our cash and cash equivalents were $25.2 million and the carrying amount of our debt under the 2017 Credit Facility was $583.6 million. Our net leverage ratio was 2.98 to 1.00. 
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, we used $10.0 million in cash for operations, had a net increase in our borrowings of $196.3 million, which was primarily used to finance the acquisition of YourCause, returned $5.9 million to stockholders by way of dividends and had aggregate cash outlays of $12.5 million for purchases of property and equipment and capitalized software development costs.
On January 1, 2019, we adopted ASU 2016-02, using the transition method that allowed us to initially apply the guidance at the adoption date of January 1, 2019 without adjusting comparative periods presented. Adopting ASU 2016-02 had a material impact on our consolidated balance sheet as as we recognized lease liabilities and ROU assets for those leases classified as operating leases. The impacts of adoption are reflected in the financial information herein. For additional information regarding the impact of our adoption of ASU 2016-02, see See Notes 2 and 10 of our consolidated financial statements in this report.
Recurring revenue is comprised of fees for the use of our subscription-based software solutions, which includes providing access to cloud-based solutions, hosting services, online training programs, subscription-based analytic services, such as donor acquisitions and data enrichment, and payment services. Recurring revenue also includes fees from maintenance services for our on-premises solutions, services included in our renewable subscription contracts, subscription-based contracts for professional services and variable transaction revenue associated with the use of our solutions.
We continue to experience growth in sales of our cloud-based solutions as we meet the demand of our customers that increasingly prefer cloud-based subscription offerings with integrated analytics, training and payment services. Recurring subscription contracts are typically for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter. We intend to continue focusing on innovation, quality and integration of our cloud-based solutions, which we believe will drive future revenue growth.
The increase in recurring revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018, was primarily due to positive demand across our portfolio of cloud-based solutions as revenue from subscriptions increased $21.8 million. The inclusion of Reeher and YourCause contributed to the increase in recurring revenue as both acquisitions were completed after March 31, 2018. We also saw increases in revenue from subscription-based professional services as well as services embedded in our renewable cloud-based solution contracts. These favorable impacts from subscriptions were partially offset by a decrease in maintenance revenue of $4.5 million during the three months ended March 31, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018. The decrease in maintenance revenue was primarily related to our efforts to migrate customers from legacy on-premises solutions onto our solutions powered by Blackbaud SKY, our modern cloud platform.
One-time services and other revenue is comprised of fees for one-time consulting, analytic and onsite training services, as well as revenue from the sale of our software sold under perpetual license arrangements, fees from user conferences and third-party software referral fees.
Cost of one-time services and other decreased during the three months ended March 31, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to a decrease in compensation costs of $3.0 million, which is in line with the ongoing shift in our go-to-market strategy as discussed above as an increasing portion of our resources are now providing subscription-based professional services as opposed to one-time.
We continue to make investments to drive sales effectiveness, which is a component of our four-point growth strategy. The increase in sales, marketing and customer success expense in dollars and as a percentage of total revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018, was primarily due to increases in compensation costs of $6.5 million and commissions expense of $1.3 million. Compensation costs increased as a result of our efforts during the second half of 2018 to increase our direct sales force and we expect to continue making investments during the remainder of 2019 and beyond. These incremental investments are intended to address the large market opportunity that we see for ourselves and fuel future revenue growth. In addition, compensation costs increased due to incremental headcount associated with the inclusion of Reeher and YourCause. The increase in commission expense was primarily driven by an increase in commissionable sales.
The increase in general and administrative expense in dollars and as a percentage of total revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018, was primarily due to increases in rent expense of $1.5 million, associated with the lease for our New Headquarters Facility in Charleston, South Carolina, which commenced in April 2018, and compensation costs of $0.8 million. The increase in compensation costs was primarily related to stock-based compensation and our acquisition of YourCause.
During 2017, in an effort to further our organizational objectives including, improved operating efficiency, customer outcomes and employee satisfaction, we initiated a multi-year plan to consolidate and relocate some of our existing offices to highly modern and more collaborative workspaces with short-term financial commitments. These workspaces are also more centrally located for our employees and closer to our customers and prospects. Restructuring costs incurred prior to our adoption of ASU 2016-02 on January 1, 2019 consisted primarily of costs to terminate lease agreements, contractual lease payments, net of estimated sublease income, upon vacating space as part of the plan, as well as insignificant costs to relocate affected employees and write-off facilities-related fixed assets that we would no longer use.
Upon adoption of ASU 2016-02 at January 1, 2019, we reduced our operating lease ROU assets recognized at transition by the carrying amounts of the restructuring liabilities for certain leased office spaces that we ceased using prior to December 31, 2018. See additional details below.
Interest expense increased during the three months ended March 31, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to increases in our average daily borrowings related to our acquisitions of Reeher in April 2018 and YourCause in January 2019. Also contributing to the increases in interest expense during the three months ended March 31, 2019 were modest increases in our weighted average effective interest rates.
To the extent that our customers are billed for our solutions and services in advance of delivery, we record such amounts in deferred revenue. Our recurring revenue contracts are generally for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter, billed annually in advance and non-cancelable. We generally invoice our customers with recurring revenue contracts in annual cycles 30 days prior to the end of the contract term.
Deferred revenue from recurring revenue contracts decreased modestly during the three months ended March 31, 2019, primarily due to less customer contract renewals due to the timing of customer budget cycles. Historically, we have an increase in customer contract renewals near the beginning of our third quarter resulting in lower deferred revenue at the end of our first quarter. Deferred revenue from one-time services and other increased during the three months ended March 31, 2019, primarily due to a modest increase in onsite training sales.
We have acquired businesses whose net tangible assets include deferred revenue. In accordance with GAAP reporting requirements, we recorded write-downs of deferred revenue from customer arrangements predating the acquisition to fair value, which resulted in lower recorded deferred revenue as of the acquisition date than the actual amounts paid in advance for solutions and services under those customer arrangements. Therefore, our deferred revenue after an acquisition will not reflect the full amount of deferred revenue that would have been reported if the acquired deferred revenue was 
not written down to fair value. Further explanation of this impact is included below under the caption "Non-GAAP financial measures".
The increase in our effective income tax rate during the three months ended March 31, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018, was also due to a decrease in the discrete benefit to income tax expense relating to stock-based compensation. The impact was attributable to a decrease in the market price for shares of our common stock, when compared to the same period in 2018, as reported by Nasdaq. Most of our equity awards are granted during our first quarter and vest in subsequent years during the same quarter.
We have acquired businesses whose net tangible assets include deferred revenue. In accordance with GAAP reporting requirements, we recorded write-downs of deferred revenue under arrangements predating the acquisition to fair value, which resulted in lower recognized revenue than the contributed purchase price until the related obligations to provide services under such arrangements are fulfilled. Therefore, our GAAP revenues after the acquisitions will not reflect the full amount of revenue that would have been reported if the acquired deferred revenue was not written down to fair value. The non-GAAP measures described below reverse the acquisition-related deferred revenue write-downs so that the full amount of revenue booked by the acquired companies is included, which we believe provides a more accurate representation of a revenue run-rate in a given period and, therefore, will provide more meaningful comparative results in future periods. 
In addition, we discuss non-GAAP organic revenue growth, non-GAAP organic revenue growth on a constant currency basis and non-GAAP organic recurring revenue growth, in analyzing our performance. We believe that these non-GAAP measures are useful to investors, as a supplement to GAAP measures, for evaluating the periodic growth of our business on a consistent basis. Each of these measures of non-GAAP organic revenue growth excludes incremental acquisition-related revenue attributable to companies acquired in the current fiscal year. For companies, if any, acquired in the immediately preceding fiscal year, each of these non-GAAP organic revenue growth measures reflects presentation of full year incremental non-GAAP revenue derived from such companies as if they were combined throughout the prior period, and they include the non-GAAP revenue attributable to those companies, as if there were no acquisition-related write-downs of acquired deferred revenue to fair value as required by GAAP. In addition, each of these non-GAAP organic revenue growth measures excludes prior period revenue associated with divested businesses. The exclusion of the prior period revenue is to present the results of the divested businesses within the results of the combined company for the same period of time in both the prior and current periods. We believe this presentation provides a more comparable representation of our current business’ organic revenue growth and revenue run-rate. 
At March 31, 2019, our total cash and cash equivalents balance included approximately $13.4 million of cash that was held by operations outside the U.S. While these funds may not be needed to fund our U.S. operations for at least the next twelve months, if we need these funds, we may be required to accrue and pay taxes to repatriate the funds. We currently do not intend nor anticipate a need to repatriate our cash held outside the U.S.
Working capital changes are composed of changes in accounts receivable, prepaid expenses and other assets, trade accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities, and deferred revenue. Cash flow from operations associated with working capital decreased $7.6 million during the three months ended March 31, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to an increase in the collection of customer account balances in 2018. Fluctuations in the timing of vendor payments also contributed to the decrease in cash flow from operations associated with working capital.
Net cash used in investing activities of $121.9 million increased by $103.9 million during the three months ended March 31, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018. 
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, we used net cash of $109.4 million, for our acquisition of YourCause, compared to $5.0 million spent on similar investments during the same period in 2018. We used $11.3 million for software development costs, which was up $4.2 million from cash spent during the same period in 2018. The increase in cash outlays for software development costs was primarily driven by development activities related to our cloud-based solutions, including our Church Management Solution, as well as development activities for Blackbaud SKY, our modern cloud platform.
We also spent $1.2 million of cash for purchases of property and equipment during the three months ended March 31, 2019, which was down $4.6 million from cash spent during the same period in 2018. The higher cash outlays for property and equipment during the same period in 2018 was primarily driven by leasehold improvements for our New Headquarters Facility in Charleston, South Carolina.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, we had a net increase in borrowings of $196.3 million, which was primarily used to finance our acquisition of YourCause. Historically, due to lower revenues in our first quarter, combined with the payment of bonuses from the prior year in our first quarter, our cash flow from operations has been lowest in our first quarter.
We paid $18.4 million to satisfy tax obligations of employees upon settlement or exercise of equity awards during the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to $22.5 million during the same period in 2018. The amount of taxes paid by us on the behalf of employees related to the settlement or exercise of equity awards varies from period to period based upon the timing of grants and vesting, employee exercise decisions, as well as the market price for shares of our common stock at the time of settlement. Most of our equity awards currently vest in our first quarter. In addition, during the three months ended March 31, 2019, we paid dividends of $5.9 million, which was relatively consistent with the comparable period of 2018.
Cash used in financing activities associated with changes in restricted cash due to customers increased $191.8 million during the three months ended March 31, 2019 when compared to the same period in 2018, as the amount of restricted cash held and payable by us to customers as of December 31, 2017 was significantly larger than at the same date in 2018.
We have drawn on our credit facility from time to time to help us meet financial needs, such as financing for business acquisitions. At March 31, 2019, our available borrowing capacity under the 2017 Credit Facility was $98.4 million. The 2017 Credit Facility matures in June 2022.
At March 31, 2019, the carrying amount of our debt under the 2017 Credit Facility was $583.6 million. Our average daily borrowings during the three months ended March 31, 2019 were $557.5 million.
The term loan under the 2017 Credit Facility and our other debt require periodic principal payments. The balance of the term loans and any amounts drawn on the revolving credit loans are due upon maturity of the 2017 Credit Facility in June 2022.
The total liability for uncertain tax positions as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, was $4.7 million and $3.7 million, respectively. Our accrued interest and penalties related to tax positions taken on our tax returns was $1.0 million and $0.7 million as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.
In February 2019, our Board of Directors approved our annual dividend rate of $0.48 per share to be made in quarterly payments. Dividends at this annual rate would aggregate to $23.5 million assuming 49.0 million shares of common stock 
On April 30, 2019, our Board of Directors declared a second quarter dividend of $0.12 per share payable on June 14, 2019 to stockholders of record on May 28, 2019.
Approximately 13% of our total revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2019 was generated from operations outside the U.S. We do not have significant operations in countries in which the economy is considered to be highly inflationary. Our consolidated financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars and, accordingly, changes in the exchange rate between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar will affect the translation of our subsidiaries’ financial results into U.S. dollars for purposes of reporting our consolidated financial results. The accumulated currency translation adjustment, recorded within accumulated other comprehensive loss as a component of stockholders’ equity, was a loss of $2.0 million as of March 31, 2019 and a loss of $6.6 million as of December 31, 2018.
The vast majority of our contracts are entered into by our U.S. or U.K. entities. The contracts entered into by the U.S. entity are almost always denominated in U.S. dollars or Canadian dollars, and contracts entered into by our U.K., Australian and Irish subsidiaries are generally denominated in British Pounds, Australian dollars and Euros, respectively. Historically, as the U.S. dollar weakened, foreign currency translation resulted in an increase in our revenues and expenses denominated in non-U.S. currencies. Conversely, as the U.S. dollar strengthened, foreign currency translation resulted in a decrease in our revenue and expenses denominated in non-U.S. currencies. During the three months ended March 31, 2019, foreign translation resulted in a decrease in our revenues and expenses denominated in non-U.S. currencies. Though we have exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, primarily those between the U.S. dollar and both the British Pound and Canadian dollar, the impact has generally not been material to our consolidated results of operations or financial position. For the three months ended March 31, 2019, the fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates reduced our total revenue by $1.7 million and our income from operations by an insignificant amount. We will continue monitoring such exposure and take action as appropriate. To determine the impacts on revenue (or income from operations) from fluctuations in currency exchange rates, current period revenues (or income from operations) from entities reporting in foreign currencies were translated into U.S. dollars using the comparable prior year period's weighted average foreign currency exchange rates. These impacts are non-GAAP financial information and are not in accordance with, or an alternative to, information prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Blackbaud, Inc.
The following table provides information about shares of common stock acquired or repurchased during the three months ended March 31, 2019. All of these acquisitions were of common stock withheld by us to satisfy tax obligations of employees due upon exercise of stock appreciation rights and vesting of restricted stock awards and units. The level of acquisition activity varies from period to period based upon the timing of grants and vesting as well as employee exercise decisions.
Blackbaud, Inc.
Blackbaud, Inc.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
