We are the world’s leading cloud software company powering social good.
Our portfolio is tailored to the unique needs of vertical markets, with solutions for fundraising and CRM, marketing, advocacy, peer-to-peer fundraising, corporate social responsibility, school management, ticketing, grantmaking, financial management, payment processing and analytics.
Serving the industry for more than three decades, we are headquartered in Charleston, South Carolina and have operations in the United States, Australia, Canada, Costa Rica and the United Kingdom.
1.Delight Customers with Innovative Cloud Solutions
This strategy reflects our relentless focus on driving value and outcomes for our customers through our solutions.
Our Blackbaud SKY™ platform is a core tenant of this strategy and continues to power an elevated level of innovation by our engineers.
It is also enabling our growing ecosystem of partners who are also passionate about social good, to create new capabilities that often look and feel like Blackbaud-built capabilities.
The customers we serve require vertical specific business solutions to automate their operations.
Among the many product and innovation updates across all of our vertical markets, we recently announced the general availability of Blackbaud Church Management™, which is already transforming the church technology landscape.
Within just one year of announcing plans for Blackbaud Church Management, we now serve churches in more than half of the 50 U.S. states, representing congregations of all different sizes and spanning more than 10 denominations.
Bringing this solution to market is a significant step toward addressing several challenges in the church market and a substantial opportunity for Blackbaud.
We have built an environment of rapid innovation through a combination of our modern cloud architecture and industry standard methodologies.
Our early adopter customers have a significant role in shaping our new solutions and our SKY platform enables us to rapidly iterate based on their feedback before releasing the solutions to the market.
For example, we are also well underway with early adopters in our Higher Education vertical as we extend our proven Education Management portfolio up market.
We have spent the last several years organizing for scale and laying the foundation for our salespeople to be more successful.
This year marks an important milestone in that process as the structural transformation in sales is now largely complete, enabling our account executives to focus on leading with total solution selling by vertical, driving more products per customer, higher ASPs and overall increased customer lifetime value.
With the structural changes behind us, our focus is on adding sales headcount and improving overall sales productivity.
This effort extends beyond our sales organization into areas like marketing, where we are investing in the necessary technology and resources to efficiently drive an increased number of quality leads and better cover our large addressable market.
Over the last three years, we've tripled the number of account executives dedicated to prospect accounts, and these investments are just one way we're equipping our growing salesforce to be more effective.
In January 2019, we acquired YourCause, a market leader in corporate social responsibility software, and our ability to move fast on back-office integration is enabling us to further differentiate our solutions from the competition.
As corporate social responsibility programs are implemented around the world, it is becoming increasingly important for companies to have acute local knowledge in the countries where employees are accessing their programs and to remove any functionality barriers.
We recently announced expansion in YourCause's global footprint by developing in-market partnerships to advance employee giving and nonprofit support globally, while also implementing key product features for universal functionality.
We are also focused on operational efficiency to strengthen the business and position us for long-term success.
This continuous effort spans the entire organization as we drive towards a more scalable operating model that creates efficiency and consistency in how we execute through infrastructure investments, productivity initiatives, and organizational re-alignments.
For example, we are now selling a portfolio of modern cloud solutions, which is driving a shift away from one-time services as we reduce the hours needed for implementation and integration of our solutions.
In order to efficiently scale as the Company continues to grow, we are continuing to build out our partner ecosystem, which includes partnerships to implement our cloud solutions.
As expected, one-time services and other revenue declined $5.0 million and $14.3 million, respectively, during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 due to our continued shift in focus towards selling cloud-based subscription solutions.
In general, our cloud-based solutions include integrated analytics, training and payments services, and require less implementation services and little to no customization services.
We are also selling more subscription-based contracts for retained services and services embedded in our renewable cloud-based solution contracts.
As a result, we continue to expect one-time services and other revenue to decline.
Income from operations decreased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018.
Contributing to the decreases in income from operations were increases in stock-based compensation of $4.1 million and $7.9 million, respectively, and hosting and data center costs of $1.0 million and $4.0 million, respectively.
Increases in employee severance of $1.9 million, amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $1.8 million and rent expense of $1.7 million, also negatively impacted income from operations during the nine months ended September 30, 2019.
The increases in stock-based compensation expense were primarily driven by an increase in the grant date fair value of our annual equity awards granted to employees during the first quarter of 2019, when compared to the grant date fair value of the awards granted during the same period in 2018.
The increase in rent expense during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 was primarily associated with the lease for our New Headquarters Facility in Charleston, South Carolina, which commenced in April 2018.
The increase in employee severance was related to the elimination of certain roles within the company, most of which occurred during the first quarter of 2019.
Our recurring revenue contracts are generally for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter.
We anticipate a continued decrease in maintenance contract renewals as we transition our solution portfolio and maintenance customers from a perpetual license-based model to a cloud-based subscription delivery model.
In the long term, we also anticipate an increase in recurring subscription contract renewals as we continue focusing on innovation, quality and the integration of our cloud-based solutions, which we believe will provide value-adding capabilities to better address our customers' needs.
Due primarily to these factors, we believe a recurring revenue customer retention measure that combines recurring subscription, maintenance and service customer contracts provides a better representation of our customers' overall behavior.
For the twelve months ended September 30, 2019, approximately 92% of our customers with recurring revenue contracts were retained.
This customer retention rate is unchanged from our rate for the full year ended December 31, 2018.
At September 30, 2019, our cash and cash equivalents were $29.1 million and the carrying amount of our debt under the 2017 Credit Facility was $503.1 million.
Our net leverage ratio was 2.47 to 1.00.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we generated $122.1 million in cash from operations, had a net increase in our borrowings of $115.6 million, which was primarily used to finance the acquisition of YourCause, returned $17.7 million to stockholders by way of dividends and had aggregate cash outlays of $44.1 million for purchases of property and equipment and capitalized software development costs.
On January 1, 2019, we adopted ASU 2016-02, using the transition method that allowed us to initially apply the guidance at the adoption date of January 1, 2019 without adjusting comparative periods presented.
Adopting ASU 2016-02 had a material impact on our consolidated balance sheet as we recognized lease liabilities and ROU assets for those leases classified as operating leases.
The impacts of adoption are reflected in the financial information herein.
For additional information regarding the impact of our adoption of ASU 2016-02, see Notes 2 and 10 of our consolidated financial statements in this report.
Recurring revenue is comprised of fees for the use of our subscription-based software solutions, which includes providing access to cloud-based solutions, hosting services, online training programs, subscription-based analytic services, such as donor acquisitions and data enrichment, and payment services.
Recurring revenue also includes fees from maintenance services for our on-premises solutions, services included in our renewable subscription contracts, subscription-based contracts for retained services and variable transaction revenue associated with the use of our solutions.
We continue to experience growth in sales of our cloud-based solutions as we meet the demand of our customers that increasingly prefer cloud-based subscription offerings with integrated analytics, training and payment services.
Recurring subscription contracts are typically for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter.
The increases in recurring revenue during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018, were primarily due to positive demand across our portfolio of cloud-based solutions as revenue from subscriptions increased $21.2 million and $63.3 million, respectively.
The inclusion of YourCause contributed to the increases in recurring revenue as the acquisition was completed on January 2, 2019.
We also saw increases in revenue from subscription-based retained services as well as services embedded in our renewable cloud-based solution contracts.
These favorable impacts from subscriptions were partially offset by decreases in maintenance revenue of $4.6 million and $13.8 million, respectively during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018.
These continued decreases in maintenance revenue were primarily related to our ongoing efforts to migrate customers from legacy on-premises solutions onto our solutions powered by Blackbaud SKY, our modern cloud platform.
ended September 30, 2019 was allocations of depreciation, facilities and IT support costs of $3.8 million.
The inclusion of YourCause also contributed to the increases in cost of recurring revenue during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 when compared to the same periods in 2018.
The increase in allocated corporate costs was primarily driven by investments made in corporate IT, including cyber security and increases in headcount.
One-time services and other revenue is comprised of fees for one-time consulting, analytic and onsite training services, as well as revenue from the sale of our software sold under perpetual license arrangements, fees from user conferences and third-party software referral fees.
One-time services and other revenue decreased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018, primarily due to decreases in one-time consulting revenue of $3.9 million and $10.1 million, respectively and analytics revenue of $0.9 million and $2.8 million, respectively.
We also continue to sell more subscription-based contracts for retained services and services embedded in our renewable cloud-based solution contracts, both of which are recorded as recurring revenue.
Cost of one-time services and other decreased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018, primarily due to a decrease in compensation costs of $3.8 million and $10.2 million, respectively, which is in line with the ongoing shift in our go-to-market strategy as discussed above as an increasing portion of our resources are now providing subscription-based retained services as opposed to one-time.
One-time services and other gross margin increased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018, as the reductions in costs of one-time services and other discussed above outpaced the declines in one-time consulting revenue and higher margin analytics revenue associated with the shift in our go-to-market strategy.
We continue to make investments to improve market coverage and drive sales effectiveness, which is a component of our four-point growth strategy.
The increases in sales, marketing and customer success expense in dollars and as a percentage of total revenue during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018, were primarily due to increases in compensation costs of $4.4 million and $15.7 million, respectively and increases in allocations of depreciation, facilities and IT support costs of $1.3 million and $5.0 million, respectively.
Also contributing to the increase in sales, marketing and customer success expense during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018, was an increase in commissions expense of $2.2 million.
In addition, compensation costs increased due to incremental headcount associated with the inclusion of YourCause.
The increase in commission expense was primarily driven by an increase in commissionable sales.
The increases in allocated corporate costs were primarily driven by investments made in corporate IT, including cyber security and increases in headcount.
We continue to make investments to delight our customers with innovative cloud solutions, which is a component of our four-point growth strategy.
The increases in research and development expense during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018, were primarily due to increases in compensation costs of $2.4 million and $8.3 million, respectively.
The increases in compensation costs were primarily associated with the inclusion of YourCause's engineering resources.
in the near-term as we make investments in innovation, quality and the integration of our solutions, which we believe will drive long-term revenue growth.
The increases in general and administrative expense during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018, were primarily due to increases in compensation costs of $5.4 million and $8.9 million, respectively.
Also contributing to the increase in general and administrative expense during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 was rent expense of $1.6 million.
The increase in compensation costs was primarily related to stock-based compensation and our acquisition of YourCause.
The increase in rent expense was related to the lease of our New Headquarters Facility in Charleston, South Carolina, which commenced in April 2018.
During 2017, in an effort to further our organizational objectives including, improved operating efficiency, customer outcomes and employee satisfaction, we initiated a multi-year plan to consolidate and relocate some of our existing offices to highly modern and more collaborative workspaces with short-term financial commitments.
These workspaces are also more centrally located for our employees and closer to our customers and prospects.
Upon adoption of ASU 2016-02 at January 1, 2019, we reduced our operating lease ROU assets recognized at transition by the carrying amounts of the restructuring liabilities for certain leased office spaces that we ceased using prior to December 31, 2018.
See additional details below.
These restructuring activities are currently expected to result in improved operating efficiencies and future annual before-tax savings of between $5.0 million and $6.0 million beginning in 2020.
The increases in interest expense in dollars and as a percentage of total revenue during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018, were primarily due to increases in our average daily borrowings related to our acquisition of YourCause in January 2019.
To the extent that our customers are billed for our solutions and services in advance of delivery, we record such amounts in deferred revenue.
Our recurring revenue contracts are generally for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter, billed annually in advance and non-cancelable.
We generally invoice our customers with recurring revenue contracts in annual cycles 30 days prior to the end of the contract term.
Deferred revenue from recurring revenue contracts increased during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, primarily due to new subscription sales of our cloud-based solutions and a seasonal increase in customer contract renewals.
Our acquisition of YourCause on January 2, 2019 also modestly contributed to the increase in deferred revenue from recurring revenue contracts since December 31, 2018.
Deferred revenue from one-time services and other increased during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, primarily due to a seasonal increase in advance registration billings associated with our bbcon user conference, which occurs each year in October.
We have acquired businesses whose net tangible assets include deferred revenue.
fair value, which resulted in lower recorded deferred revenue as of the acquisition date than the actual amounts paid in advance for solutions and services under those customer arrangements.
Further explanation of this impact is included below under the caption "Non-GAAP financial measures".
The increases in our effective income tax rate during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018, were primarily due to a decrease in the discrete benefit to income tax expense relating to stock-based compensation.
Most of our equity awards are granted during our first quarter and vest in subsequent years during the same quarter.
We use non-GAAP revenue, non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP income from operations, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share internally in analyzing our operational performance.
We have acquired businesses whose net tangible assets include deferred revenue.
In accordance with GAAP reporting requirements, we recorded write-downs of deferred revenue under arrangements predating the acquisition to fair value, which resulted in lower recognized revenue than the contributed purchase price until the related obligations to provide services under such arrangements are fulfilled.
In addition, we discuss non-GAAP organic revenue growth, non-GAAP organic revenue growth on a constant currency basis and non-GAAP organic recurring revenue growth, in analyzing our performance.
Each of these measures of non-GAAP organic revenue growth excludes incremental acquisition-related revenue attributable to companies acquired in the current fiscal year.
For companies, if any, acquired in the immediately preceding fiscal year, each of these non-GAAP organic revenue growth measures reflects presentation of full year incremental non-GAAP revenue derived from such companies as if they were combined throughout the prior period, and they include the non-GAAP revenue attributable to those companies, as if there were no acquisition-related write-downs of acquired deferred revenue to fair value as required by GAAP.
The exclusion of the prior period revenue is to present the results of the divested businesses within the results of the combined company for the same period of time in both the prior and current periods.
We believe this presentation provides a more comparable representation of our current business’ organic revenue growth and revenue run-rate.
Our transaction revenue has historically been at its lowest in the first quarter due to the timing of customer fundraising initiatives and events.
Our revenue from payment services has historically increased during the fourth quarter due to year-end giving.
Historically, due to lower revenues in our first quarter, combined with the payment of bonuses from the prior year in our first quarter, our cash flow from operations has been lowest in our first quarter, and due to the timing of customer contract renewals, many of which take place at or near the beginning of our third quarter, our cash flow from operations has been lower in our second quarter as compared to our third and fourth quarters.
Partially offsetting these favorable drivers of cash flow from operations in our third and fourth quarters are merit-based salary increases, which are generally effective in April each year.
In addition, deferred revenues can vary on a seasonal basis for the same reasons.
Our cash flow from financing is negatively impacted in our first quarter when most of our equity awards vest, as we pay taxes on behalf of our employees related to the settlement or exercise of equity awards.
At September 30, 2019, our total cash and cash equivalents balance included approximately $17.8 million of cash that was held by operations outside the U.S.
While these funds may not be needed to fund our U.S. operations for at least the next twelve months, if we need these funds, we may be required to accrue and pay taxes to repatriate the funds.
We currently do not intend nor anticipate a need to repatriate our cash held outside the U.S.
Cash flow from operations associated with working capital decreased $6.8 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to an increase in the amount of deferred revenue recognized slightly outpacing customer billings and an increase in the collection of customer account balances in 2018 from an aging improvement initiative.
Fluctuations in the timing of vendor payments also contributed to the decrease in cash flow from operation associated with working capital.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we used net cash of $109.4 million, for our acquisition of YourCause, compared to $45.3 million spent on similar investments during the same period in 2018.
We used $34.5 million for software development costs, which was up $7.9 million from cash spent during the same period in 2018.
The increase in cash outlays for software development costs was primarily related to our innovative cloud-based solutions, as well as development activities for Blackbaud SKY, our modern cloud platform.
We also spent $9.6 million of cash for purchases of property and equipment during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, which was down $3.3 million from cash spent during the same period in 2018.
The higher cash outlays for property and equipment during the same period in 2018 was primarily driven by leasehold improvements for our New Headquarters Facility in Charleston, South Carolina.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we had a net increase in borrowings of $115.6 million, which was primarily used to finance our acquisition of YourCause.
We paid $20.3 million to satisfy tax obligations of employees upon settlement or exercise of equity awards during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 compared to $27.4 million during the same period in 2018.
The amount of taxes paid by us on the behalf of employees related to the settlement or exercise of equity awards varies from period to period based upon the timing of grants and vesting, employee exercise decisions, as well as the market price for shares of our common stock at the time of settlement.
Most of our equity awards currently vest in our first quarter.
In addition, during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we paid dividends of $17.7 million, which was relatively consistent with the comparable period of 2018.
Cash used in financing activities associated with changes in restricted cash due to customers increased $209.3 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 when compared to the same period in 2018, as the amount of restricted cash held and payable by us to customers as of December 31, 2017 was significantly larger than at the same date in 2018.
We have drawn on our credit facility from time to time to help us meet financial needs, such as financing for business acquisitions.
At September 30, 2019, our available borrowing capacity under the 2017 Credit Facility was $175.6 million.
The 2017 Credit Facility matures in June 2022.
At September 30, 2019, the carrying amount of our debt under the 2017 Credit Facility was $503.1 million.
Our average daily borrowings during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 were $517.8 million and $553.3 million, respectively.
The balance of the term loans and any amounts drawn on the revolving credit loans are due upon maturity of the 2017 Credit Facility in June 2022.
The total liability for uncertain tax positions as of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, was $4.2 million and $3.7 million, respectively.
Our accrued interest and penalties related to tax positions taken on our tax returns was $0.9 million and $0.7 million as of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.
In February 2019, our Board of Directors approved our annual dividend rate of $0.48 per share to be made in quarterly payments.
On October 28, 2019, our Board of Directors declared a fourth quarter dividend of $0.12 per share payable on December 13, 2019 to stockholders of record on November 27, 2019.
Approximately 14% of our total revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 was generated from operations outside the U.S. We do not have significant operations in countries in which the economy is considered to be highly inflationary.
The accumulated currency translation adjustment, recorded within accumulated other comprehensive loss as a component of stockholders’ equity, was a loss of $11.9 million as of September 30, 2019 and a loss of $6.6 million as of December 31, 2018.
The vast majority of our contracts are entered into by our U.S. or U.K. entities.
The contracts entered into by the U.S. entity are almost always denominated in U.S. dollars or Canadian dollars, and contracts entered into by our U.K., Australian and Irish subsidiaries are generally denominated in British Pounds, Australian dollars and Euros, respectively.
Historically, as the U.S. dollar weakened, foreign currency translation resulted in an increase in our revenues and expenses denominated in non-U.S. currencies.
Conversely, as the U.S. dollar strengthened, foreign currency translation resulted in a decrease in our revenue and expenses denominated in non-U.S. currencies.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, foreign translation resulted in a decrease in our revenues and expenses denominated in non-U.S. currencies.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2019, the fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates reduced our total revenue by $5.2 million and our income from operations by $1.1 million.
We will continue monitoring such exposure and take action as appropriate.
To determine the impacts on revenue (or income from operations) from fluctuations in currency exchange rates, current period revenues (or income from operations) from entities reporting in foreign currencies were translated into U.S. dollars using the comparable prior year period's weighted average foreign currency exchange rates.
The following table provides information about shares of common stock acquired or repurchased during the three months ended September 30, 2019.
The level of acquisition activity varies from period to period based upon the timing of grants and vesting as well as employee exercise decisions.
