We are the world’s leading cloud software company powering social good. Serving the entire social good community—nonprofits, foundations, corporations, education institutions, healthcare institutions and individual change agents—we connect and empower organizations to increase their impact through software, services, expertise, and data intelligence. Our portfolio is tailored to the unique needs of vertical markets, with solutions for fundraising and CRM, marketing, advocacy, peer-to-peer fundraising, corporate social responsibility, school management, ticketing, grantmaking, financial management, payment processing, and analytics. Serving the industry for more than three decades, we are headquartered in Charleston, South Carolina and have operations in the United States, Australia, Canada and the United Kingdom. As of March 31, 2018, we had over 40,000 customers.
We will continue to transition our business to predominantly serve customers through a subscription-based cloud delivery model, enabling lower cost of entry, greater scalability and lower total cost of ownership to our customers. There is a concerted effort underway to optimize our portfolio of solutions and integrate powerful capabilities — such as built in data, analytics, artificial intelligence, payment processing and tailored user-specific experiences — to bring even greater value and performance to our customers.
We recently introduced Blackbaud Grantmaking™, our newest and most comprehensive grants management solution. Our next generation cloud offering for grantmaking evolves the experience previously available with a product we acquired with MicroEdge called GIFTS Online®. Blackbaud Grantmaking takes advantage of the rapid innovation, modern user experience, and enhanced capabilities made possible by our Blackbaud SKY® cloud platform.
We also recently announced the integration of AcademicWorks® with our Blackbaud SKY powered solutions, bolstering our customers' ability to grant and manage scholarships. Donors funding scholarships, for example, will now have improved visibility given the integration with our digital marketing solutions. Scholarship granting organizations are now able to seamlessly manage the financial tracking and reporting through integration with Financial Edge NXT®, and integration with Raiser's Edge NXT® ensures a holistic view of the donor and granted scholarship. This saves our customers time through automation, and provides them with a more robust set of tools to better enable their organizations for success. We're continuing to rapidly innovate in the cloud which is resulting in gains for both Blackbaud and our customers.
We are making investments to increase the effectiveness of our sales organization, with a focus on enabling our expanded sales teams with the processes and tools to accelerate our revenue growth and improve productivity and effectiveness.
We have shifted to selling integrated cloud-solutions instead of individual point-solutions, which is a key competitive differentiator for our sales teams. Our focus is on driving improved productivity within our existing salesforce through common procedures, training, key operating metrics, compensation plans, and reporting. Our sales account executives now lead with a total-solution selling strategy, which we believe results in more products per customer, higher ASP's, and increased customer retention over the long-term. We believe that attaching training, analytics, and payments to a deal improves the customer experience, improves outcomes, drives retention, and extends the customer lifetime value.
3.Expand TAM into Near Adjacencies through Acquisitions and Product Investments
We continue to evaluate compelling opportunities to acquire companies and acquire or build technologies and services. We are guided by our strategic acquisition criteria for considering attractive assets that expand our total addressable market ("TAM"), provide entry into new and near adjacencies, accelerate our shift to the cloud, accelerate revenue growth, are accretive to margins and present synergistic opportunities.
We have been executing this strategy for several years and have expanded our TAM by roughly $2 billion through acquired businesses over the last two years. During the second quarter of 2017, we acquired AcademicWorks, adding scholarship management and stewardship software to our portfolio. We quickly integrated their back office for consistency and scale and have expanded sales into Canada and the United Kingdom (the "UK") by integrating the solutions into our international sales channels.
During the fourth quarter of 2017, we acquired UK-based JustGiving, one of the world’s leading online giving platforms, broadening our ability to serve both individual donors and nonprofits. We are focused on integrating their operations and we remain active in the evaluation of future opportunities to expand our TAM through acquisitions and internal product development. 
We are focused on operational efficiency to strengthen the business and deliver improved profitability. We have made transformational changes in the business, including infrastructure investments, productivity initiatives, and organizational re-alignments, to drive us towards a more scalable operating model that creates efficiency and consistency in how we execute. 
Over the last several years, we have created an operational excellence function inside of Blackbaud to focus on maximizing the effectiveness of the business through continuous improvement. We have different courses spanning different functions and levels within the company enabling all of our employees to take ownership of their roles and move the company forward. This has empowered our employees to improve their daily lives, advance the Blackbaud's strategic objectives, and ultimately drive more value to our customers. We have made significant strides to-date improving operating efficiency and we believe there is more opportunity ahead to further optimize the business.
During 2017, in an effort to further our organizational objectives including, improved operating efficiency, customer outcomes and employee satisfaction, we also initiated a multi-year plan to consolidate and relocate some of our existing offices to highly modern and more collaborative workspaces with short-term financial commitments. These workspaces are also more centrally located for our employees and closer to our customers and prospects. Restructuring costs expected to be incurred consist primarily of costs to terminate existing lease agreements as well as contractual lease payments, net of estimated sublease income, upon vacating space as part of the plan. We currently expect to incur before-tax restructuring costs associated with these activities of between $6.0 million and $8.0 million, with a significant portion of the remaining costs expected to be incurred through 2019. We also expect to incur employee severance costs related to the plan; however, these costs cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. We have incurred cumulative before-tax restructuring costs of $1.6 million related to this plan as of March 31, 2018. These restructuring activities are expected to result in future annual before-tax savings of between $3.0 million and $4.0 million beginning in 2020.
The increase in total revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, was primarily driven by growth in recurring revenue as we continue to see strong demand from customers across our portfolio of cloud-based solutions. One-time services and other revenue declined during the three months ended March 31, 2018 due to our continued shift in focus towards selling cloud-based subscription solutions. In general, our cloud-based solutions include integrated analytic, training and payments services, and require less implementation services. As a result, we expect one-time services and other revenue to continue to be negatively impacted. In addition, we have also used promotions and discounts for our consulting services as incentives to accelerate the migration of our existing customer base from on-premises solutions toward our cloud-based subscriptions.
Income from operations increased during the three months ended March 31, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017. The positive impact of growth in total revenue driven by recurring subscriptions outpaced the related costs and was partially offset primarily by investments we are making in our sales organization and customer success program and, to a lesser extent, increases in amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $1.1 million and restructuring costs of $0.8 million.
Our recurring revenue contracts are generally for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter. We anticipate a continued decrease in maintenance contract renewals as we transition our solution portfolio and maintenance customers from a perpetual license-based model to a cloud-based subscription delivery model. In the long term, we also anticipate an increase in recurring subscription contract renewals as we continue focusing on innovation, quality and the integration of our cloud-based solutions, which we believe will provide value-adding capabilities to better address our customers' needs. Due primarily to these factors, we believe a recurring revenue customer retention measure that combines recurring subscription, maintenance and service customer contracts provides an accurate representation of our customers' overall behavior. For the twelve months ended March 31, 2018, approximately 93% of our customers with recurring revenue contracts were retained. This customer retention rate is relatively unchanged from our rate for the full year ended December 31, 2017. In the near term, our recurring revenue customer retention rate may modestly decrease driven by our efforts to rationalize our portfolio of solutions and migrate customers from legacy solutions towards our next generation cloud-based solutions. 
At March 31, 2018, our cash and cash equivalents were $25.0 million and the carrying amount of our debt under the 2017 Credit Facility was $466.1 million. Our net leverage ratio was 2.19 to 1.00. 
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, we generated $11.8 million in cash flow from operations, had a net increase in our borrowings of $28.8 million, returned $5.8 million to stockholders by way of dividends and had aggregate cash outlays of $12.9 million for purchases of property and equipment and capitalized software development costs. Historically, due to lower revenues in our first quarter, combined with the payment of bonuses from the prior year in our first quarter, our cash flow from operations has been lowest in our first quarter.
On April 30, 2018, we acquired all of the outstanding equity securities, including all voting equity interests, of Reeher LLC, a Minnesota limited liability company (“Reeher”), pursuant to a securities purchase agreement. The acquisition expands our fundraising performance management capabilities and is intended to drive more effective fundraising and greater social good outcomes for our customers. We acquired the equity securities for an aggregate purchase price of $43.0 million, subject to certain adjustments set forth in the securities purchase agreement. The purchase price and related expenses were funded primarily through borrowings under the 2017 Credit Facility.
On January 1, 2018, we adopted ASU 2014-09, using the full retrospective method of transition, which requires that the standard be applied to all periods presented. The impacts of adoption are reflected in the financial information herein. For additional details, see Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements in this report.
Recurring revenue is comprised of fees for the use of our subscription-based software solutions, which includes providing access to cloud-based solutions, hosting services, online training programs, subscription-based analytic services, such as donor acquisitions and data enrichment, and payment services. Recurring revenue also includes fees from maintenance services for our on-premises solutions, services included in our renewable subscription contracts, subscription-based contracts for professional services and variable transaction revenue associated with the use of our solutions.
We continue to experience growth in sales of our cloud-based solutions as we meet the demand of our customers that increasingly prefer cloud-based subscription offerings with integrated analytic, training and payment services. Recurring subscription contracts are typically for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter. We intend to continue focusing on innovation, quality and integration of our cloud-based solutions, which we believe will drive future revenue growth.
The increase in recurring revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, was primarily due to strong demand across our portfolio of cloud-based solutions as revenue from subscriptions increased $26.2 million. To a much lesser extent, the inclusion of AcademicWorks and JustGiving contributed to the increase in recurring revenue. The favorable impact from subscriptions was partially offset by a $5.4 million decrease in maintenance revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017.
The increase in cost of recurring revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, was primarily due to an increase in compensation costs of $4.2 million driven by resource additions that are directly related to generating recurring revenue as well as the inclusion of AcademicWorks and JustGiving.
One-time services and other revenue is comprised of fees for one-time consulting, analytic and onsite training services, as well as revenue from the sale of our software sold under perpetual license arrangements, fees from user conferences and third-party software referral fees.
Cost of one-time services and other decreased during the three months ended March 31, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to a decrease in compensation costs, which is in line with the ongoing shift in our go-to-market strategy as discussed above. Productivity gains also contributed to the decrease in cost of one-time services and other.
One-time services and other gross margin increased during the three months ended March 31, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to the declines in analytics and consulting revenue coupled with the larger reductions in costs of one-time services and other discussed above.
We continue to make investments to drive sales effectiveness, which is a component of our four-point growth strategy to accelerate revenue growth. We also continue investing in our customer success organization to drive customer outcomes, loyalty, retention, and referrals. The increase in sales, marketing, and customer success expense during the three months ended March 31, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, was primarily due to increases in compensation costs, commissions expense and advertising and marketing costs of $1.9 million, $1.1 million and $0.9 million, respectively. Compensation costs increased primarily due to incremental headcount associated with the increase in direct sales, marketing, and customer success efforts of our growing operations. The increase in commission expense was primarily driven by an increase in commissionable sales. Advertising and marketing costs increased as a result of our inclusion of JustGiving.
Sales, marketing and customer success expense as a percentage of total revenue remained relatively unchanged during the three months ended March 31, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017.
The increases in general and administrative expense in dollars and as a percentage of total revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, were primarily due to an increase compensation costs of $3.1 million. The increase in compensation costs was primarily driven by a combination of higher employee benefits, stock-based compensation and salaries.
Interest expense increased during the three and three months ended March 31, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to an increase in our average daily borrowings related to our acquisition of JustGiving in October 2017. Also contributing to the increase in interest expense during the three months ended March 31, 2018 were modest increases in our weighted average effective interest rates.
To the extent that our customers are billed for our solutions and services in advance of delivery, we record such amounts in deferred revenue. Our recurring revenue contracts are generally for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter, billed annually in advance and non-cancelable. We generally invoice our customers with recurring revenue contracts in annual cycles 30 days prior to the end of the contract term.
Deferred revenue from recurring revenue contracts decreased during the three months ended March 31, 2018, primarily due to less billings for recurring revenue contracts. Historically, due to the timing of customer budget cycles, we have an increase in customer contract renewals in our second and fourth quarters as compared to our first and third quarters. Deferred revenue from one-time services and other remained relatively unchanged during the three months ended March 31, 2018.
We have acquired businesses whose net tangible assets include deferred revenue. In accordance with GAAP reporting requirements, we recorded write-downs of deferred revenue from customer arrangements predating the acquisition to fair value, which resulted in lower recorded deferred revenue as of the acquisition date than the actual amounts paid in advance for solutions and services under those customer arrangements. Therefore, our deferred revenue after an acquisition will not reflect the full amount of deferred revenue that would have been reported if the acquired deferred revenue was not written down to fair value. Further explanation of this impact is included below under the caption "Non-GAAP financial measures".
The decrease in our effective income tax rate during the three months ended March 31, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, was primarily due to the impact of the discrete benefit to income tax expense relating to stock-based compensation items, calculated prior to the impact of the U.S. federal corporate tax rate change as a result of the Tax Act. This favorable impact was attributable to an increase in the market price for shares of our common stock, as reported by Nasdaq, as well as an increase in the number of stock awards that vested and were exercised. Most of our equity awards are granted during our first quarter and vest in subsequent years during the same quarter. This discrete benefit to income tax expense relating to stock-based compensation during the three months ended March 31, 2018 was reduced as a result of the decrease in the U.S. corporate tax rate.
The decrease in our effective income tax rate during the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the same period in 2017, was also attributable to the impact of the lower U.S. federal corporate tax rate on pre-tax income.
We have acquired businesses whose net tangible assets include deferred revenue. In accordance with GAAP reporting requirements, we recorded write-downs of deferred revenue under arrangements predating the acquisition to fair value, which resulted in lower recognized revenue than the contributed purchase price until the related obligations to provide services under such arrangements are fulfilled. Therefore, our GAAP revenues after the acquisitions will not reflect the full amount of revenue that would have been reported if the acquired deferred revenue was not written down to fair value. The non-GAAP measures described below reverse the acquisition-related deferred revenue write-downs so that the full amount of revenue booked by the acquired companies is included, which we believe provides a more accurate representation of a revenue run-rate in a given period and, therefore, will provide more meaningful comparative results in future periods. 
The increases in non-GAAP income from operations and non-GAAP operating margin during the three months ended March 31, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, were primarily due to growth in recurring revenue that outpaced the related costs, partially offset by investments we are making in our sales organization, customer success program and solution development efforts, which are discussed above.
Non-GAAP free cash flow is defined as operating cash flow less capital expenditures, including costs required to be capitalized for software development, and capital expenditures for property and equipment.
In addition, we discuss non-GAAP organic revenue growth, non-GAAP organic revenue growth on a constant currency basis and non-GAAP organic recurring revenue growth, in analyzing our performance. We believe that these non-GAAP measures are useful to investors, as a supplement to GAAP measures, for evaluating the periodic growth of our business on a consistent basis. Each of these measures of non-GAAP organic revenue growth excludes incremental acquisition-related revenue attributable to companies acquired in the current fiscal year. For companies, if any, acquired in the immediately preceding fiscal year, each of these non-GAAP organic revenue growth measures reflects presentation of full year incremental non-GAAP revenue derived from such companies as if they were combined throughout the prior period, and they include the non-GAAP revenue attributable to those companies, as if there were no acquisition-related write-downs of acquired deferred revenue to fair value as required by GAAP. In addition, each of these non-GAAP organic revenue growth measures excludes prior period revenue associated with divested businesses. The exclusion of the prior period revenue is to present the results of the divested businesses within the results of the combined company for the same period of time in both the prior and current periods. We believe this presentation provides a more comparable representation of our current business’ organic revenue growth and revenue run-rate. 
Our revenues normally fluctuate as a result of certain seasonal variations in our business. Our transaction revenue has historically been at its lowest in the first quarter due to the timing of customer fundraising initiatives and events. Our revenue from payment services has historically increased during the fourth quarter due to year-end giving. Our revenue from professional services has historically been lower in the first quarter when many of those services commence and in the fourth quarter due to the holiday season. As a result of these and other factors, our total revenue has historically been lower in the first quarter than in the remainder of our fiscal year, with the third and fourth quarters historically achieving the highest total revenues. Our expenses, however, do not vary significantly as a result of these factors, but do fluctuate on a quarterly basis due to varying timing of expenditures. Our cash flow from operations normally fluctuates quarterly due to the combination of the timing of customer contract renewals including renewals associated with customers of acquired companies, delivery of professional services and occurrence of customer events, the payment of bonuses, as well as merit-based salary increases, among other factors. Historically, due to lower revenues in our first quarter, combined with the payment of bonuses from the prior year in our first quarter, our cash flow from operations has been lowest in our first quarter, and due to the timing of customer contract renewals, many of which take place at or near the beginning of our third quarter, our cash flow from operations has been lower in our second quarter as compared to our third and fourth quarters. Partially offsetting these favorable drivers of cash flow from operations in our third and fourth quarters are merit-based salary increases, which are generally effective in April each year. In addition, deferred revenues can vary on a seasonal basis for the same reasons. These patterns may change as a result of the continued shift to online giving, growth in volume of transactions for which we process payments, or as a result of acquisitions, new market opportunities, new solution introductions or other factors. Our cash flow from financing is negatively impacted in our first quarter when most of our equity awards vest, as we pay taxes on behalf of our employees related to the settlement or exercise of equity awards.
At March 31, 2018, our total cash and cash equivalents balance included approximately $15.9 million of cash that was held by operations outside the U.S. While these funds may not be needed to fund our U.S. operations for at least the next twelve months, if we need these funds, we may be required to accrue and pay taxes to repatriate the funds. We currently do not intend nor anticipate a need to repatriate our cash held outside the U.S.
Working capital changes are composed of changes in accounts receivable, prepaid expenses and other assets, trade accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities, and deferred revenue. Cash flow from operations associated with working capital decreased $8.5 million during the three months ended March 31, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to the timing of vendor payments.
Net cash used in investing activities of $17.9 million increased by $8.7 million during the three months ended March 31, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017. 
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, we used net cash of $5.0 million for a business acquisition while we did not make any similar investments in during the same period in 2017. We used $7.1 million for software development costs, which was relatively consistent with cash spent in the same period in 2017.
We also spent $5.8 million of cash for purchases of property and equipment during the three months ended March 31, 2018, which was up $3.1 million from cash spent during the same period in 2017. The increase in cash outlays for property and equipment was primarily driven by leasehold improvements for our new global headquarters in Charleston, South Carolina.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, we had a net increase in borrowings of $28.8 million. Historically, due to lower revenues in our first quarter, combined with the payment of bonuses from the prior year in our first quarter, our cash flow from operations has been lowest in our first quarter. 
We paid $22.5 million to satisfy tax obligations of employees upon settlement or exercise of equity awards during the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to $14.8 million during the same period in 2017. The amount of taxes paid by us on the behalf of employees related to the settlement or exercise of equity awards varies from period to period based upon the timing of grants and vesting, employee exercise decisions, as well as the market price for shares of our common stock at the time of settlement. Most of our equity awards currently vest in our first quarter. In addition, during the three months ended March 31, 2018, we paid dividends of $5.8 million, which was relatively consistent with the comparable period of 2017.
Cash flow from financing activities associated with changes in restricted cash due to customers decreased $238.6 million during the three months ended March 31, 2018 when compared to the same period in 2017.
We have drawn on our credit facility from time to time to help us meet financial needs, such as financing for business acquisitions. At March 31, 2018, our available borrowing capacity under the 2017 Credit Facility was $222.0 million. The 2017 Credit Facility matures in June 2022.
At March 31, 2018, the carrying amount of our debt under the 2017 Credit Facility was $466.1 million. Our average daily borrowings during the three months ended March 31, 2018 were $447.5 million.
On April 30, 2018, we acquired Reeher for $43.0 million, subject to certain adjustments set forth in the securities purchase agreement. The purchase price and related expenses were funded primarily through borrowings under the 2017 Credit Facility.
The term loan under the 2017 Credit Facility and our other debt require periodic principal payments. The balance of the term loans and any amounts drawn on the revolving credit loans are due upon maturity of the 2017 Credit Facility in June 2022.
The total liability for uncertain tax positions as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, was $5.3 million and $5.2 million, respectively. Our accrued interest and penalties related to tax positions taken on our tax returns was $0.8 million as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017.
On April 30, 2018, our Board of Directors declared a second quarter dividend of $0.12 per share payable on June 15, 2018 to stockholders of record on May 25, 2018.
Approximately 14% of our total revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was generated from operations outside the United States. We do not have significant operations in countries in which the economy is considered to be highly inflationary. Our consolidated financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars and, accordingly, changes in the exchange rate between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar will affect the translation of our subsidiaries’ financial results into U.S. dollars for purposes of reporting our consolidated financial results. The accumulated currency translation adjustment, recorded within accumulated other comprehensive income as a component of stockholders’ equity, was a gain of $5.0 million as of March 31, 2018 and a loss of $1.4 million as of December 31, 2017.
The vast majority of our contracts are entered into by our U.S. or U.K. entities. The contracts entered into by the U.S. entity are almost always denominated in U.S. dollars or Canadian dollars, and contracts entered into by our U.K., Australian and Irish subsidiaries are generally denominated in British Pounds, Australian dollars and Euros, respectively. Historically, as the U.S. dollar weakened, foreign currency translation resulted in an increase in our revenues and expenses denominated in non-U.S. currencies. Conversely, as the U.S. dollar strengthened, foreign currency translation resulted in a decrease in our revenue and expenses denominated in non-U.S. currencies. During the three months ended March 31, 2018, foreign translation resulted in an increase in our revenues and expenses denominated in non-U.S. currencies. Though we have exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, primarily those between the U.S. dollar and both the British Pound and Canadian dollar, the impact has generally not been material to our consolidated results of operations or financial position. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, the fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates increased our total revenue by $2.0 million and our income from operations by an insignificant amount. We will continue monitoring such exposure and take action as appropriate. To determine the impacts on revenue (or income from operations) from fluctuations in currency exchange rates, current period revenues (or income from operations) from entities reporting in foreign currencies were translated into U.S. dollars using the comparable prior year period's weighted average foreign currency exchange rates. These impacts are non-GAAP financial information and are not in accordance with, or an alternative to, information prepared in accordance with GAAP. 
See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements in this report for a complete discussion of our revenue recognition policies.
Revenues are recognized when control of our services is transferred to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those services.
Our revenue recognition accounting methodology contains uncertainties because it requires us to make significant estimates and assumptions, and to apply judgment.
For example, for arrangements that have multiple performance obligations, we must exercise judgment and use estimates in order to (1) determine whether performance obligations are distinct and should be accounted for separately; (2) determine the standalone selling price of each performance obligation; (3) allocate the transaction price among the various performance obligations on a relative standalone selling price basis; and (4) determine whether revenue for each performance obligation should be recognized at a point in time or over time. 
We pay sales commissions at the time contracts with customers are signed or shortly thereafter, depending on the size and duration of the sales contract. Sales commissions and related fringe benefits earned by our sales force are considered incremental and recoverable costs of obtaining a contract with a customer. These costs are deferred and then amortized in a manner that aligns with the expected period of benefit, which we have determined to be five years. We do not generally pay commissions for contract renewals. The related amortization expense is included in sales, marketing and customer success expense in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income.
The following table provides information about shares of common stock acquired or repurchased during the three months ended March 31, 2018. All of these acquisitions were of common stock withheld by us to satisfy tax obligations of employees due upon exercise of stock appreciation rights and vesting of restricted stock awards and units. The level of acquisition activity varies from period to period based upon the timing of grants and vesting as well as employee exercise decisions.
Blackbaud, Inc.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
