We will continue to transition our business to predominantly serve customers through a subscription-based cloud delivery model, enabling lower cost of entry, greater scalability and lower total cost of ownership to our customers. There is a concerted effort underway to optimize our portfolio of solutions and integrate powerful capabilities — such as built in data, analytics, artificial intelligence, payment processing and tailored user-specific experiences — to bring even greater value and performance to our customers.
We achieved a significant milestone on this strategy by recently announcing our new comprehensive Cloud Solution for Faith Communities with the introduction of Blackbaud Church Management™. This next generation cloud offering brings our proven strengths in fundraising and relationship management, financial management, marketing and payments together with completely new Blackbaud Church Management capabilities, giving church leaders the ability to track gifts and tithing, assimilate new members, directly communicate with their congregations via multi-channel communication, enable members to make online and mobile contributions, manage small groups of volunteers, implement secure child check-in, conduct background checks, provide bulk tax statements and manage facilities. We expect the general release of Blackbaud Church Management in mid-2019.
We are making investments to increase the effectiveness of our sales organization, with a focus on enabling our sales teams with the processes and tools to accelerate our revenue growth and improve productivity.
Selling integrated cloud-solutions that are purpose-built for organizations, such as our cloud for K-12 private schools, is a key competitive differentiator for our sales teams. Our sales account executives now lead with a total-solution 
selling strategy by vertical, focused on recurring revenue and driving more products per customer, higher ASP's, and increased customer retention over the long-term. We believe that attaching training, analytics, and payments to a deal improves the cloud experience, drives customer outcomes, improves retention, and increases customer lifetime value. 
We continue to develop and acquire solutions that create value for our customers. We recently released new fundraising benchmarking capabilities in Raisers Edge NXT™ that complement the existing set of SKY Reporting™ tools and leverage Blackbaud's proprietary data, giving our customers the ability to compare their performance in key fundraising metrics against their peers. These capabilities not only provide customers with performance insight but also quantify the value of improving their performance and refer them to specific tools inside of the Raiser's Edge NXT to drive growth.
Our focus has been on driving improved productivity within our existing salesforce through common procedures, training, key operating metrics, compensation plans, and reporting. We have made solid gains on our productivity measures and established a productive and scalable direct sales model, which is why we now expect to increase our sales account executive hiring in the second half of 2018.
3.Expand TAM into Near Adjacencies through Acquisitions and Product Investments
We continue to evaluate compelling opportunities to acquire companies and acquire or build technologies and services. We are guided by our strategic acquisition criteria for considering attractive assets that expand our total addressable market ("TAM"), provide entry into new and near adjacencies, accelerate our shift to the cloud, accelerate revenue growth, are accretive to margins and present synergistic opportunities.
We have been executing this strategy for several years and have expanded our TAM by roughly $2 billion through acquired businesses. During the second quarter of 2018, we acquired Reeher, expanding our fundraising performance management capabilities with the intent to drive more effective fundraising and greater social good outcomes for our customers.
With the introduction of our cloud solution for faith communities, including the new church management applications, we are now in a position to organically build as an option and not just acquire incremental TAM. We are focused on integrating JustGiving and Reeher's operations and we remain active in the evaluation of future opportunities to expand our TAM through acquisitions and internal product development.
We are focused on operational efficiency to strengthen the business and deliver improved profitability. We continue driving towards a more scalable operating model that creates efficiency and consistency in how we execute through infrastructure investments, productivity initiatives and organizational re-alignments. 
In 2018, we've been executing a cohesive workplace strategy to better align our organizational objectives with our geographically diverse workforce. During the second quarter of 2018, we moved into our new global headquarters and the employee feedback has been overwhelmingly positive. The eco-friendly facility is dynamic and collaborative offering leading-edge technology that connects our global workforce. The new facility is also home to the new Blackbaud Innovation Center, a high-tech meeting space where customers, partners, community leaders and influencers across the industry can convene to turn action into impact.
During 2017, in an effort to further our organizational objectives including, improved operating efficiency, customer outcomes and employee satisfaction, we initiated a multi-year plan to consolidate and relocate some of our existing offices outside of Charleston, South Carolina to highly modern and more collaborative workspaces with short-term financial commitments. These workspaces are also more centrally located for our employees and closer to our customers and prospects. Restructuring costs incurred to date and expected to be incurred consist primarily of costs to terminate existing lease agreements as well as contractual lease payments, net of estimated sublease income, upon vacating space as part of the plan. We currently expect to incur before-tax restructuring costs associated with these activities of between $6.0 million and $8.0 million, with a significant portion of the remaining costs expected to be incurred through 2019. We also expect to incur employee severance costs related to the plan; however, these costs cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. We have incurred cumulative before-tax restructuring costs of $5.3 million related to this plan as of June 30, 2018. These restructuring activities are currently expected to result in future annual before-tax savings of between $3.0 million and $4.0 million beginning in 2020.
The increases in total revenue during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, were primarily driven by growth in recurring revenue as we continue to see strong demand from customers across our portfolio of cloud-based solutions. The inclusion of JustGiving and Reeher also contributed to the increases in recurring and total revenue. One-time services and other revenue declined during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 due to our continued shift in focus towards selling cloud-based subscription solutions. In general, our cloud-based solutions include integrated analytic, training and payments services, and require less implementation services and little to no customization services. As a result, we expect one-time services and other revenue to continue to be negatively impacted. In addition, we have also used promotions and discounts for our consulting services as incentives to accelerate the migration of our existing customer base from on-premises solutions toward our cloud-based subscriptions.
Income from operations decreased during the three months ended June 30, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017. The positive impact of growth in total revenue driven by recurring subscriptions was offset primarily by investments we are making in our sales organization, which we expect will increase in the second half of 2018, and customer success program and, to a lesser extent, increases in restructuring costs of $3.7 million, stock-based compensation expense of $3.0 million, net acquisition-related expenses and integration costs of $1.6 million and amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $1.1 million.
Our recurring revenue contracts are generally for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter. We anticipate a continued decrease in maintenance contract renewals as we transition our solution portfolio and maintenance customers from a perpetual license-based model to a cloud-based subscription delivery model. In the long term, we also anticipate an increase in recurring subscription contract renewals as we continue focusing on innovation, quality and the integration of our cloud-based solutions, which we believe will provide value-adding capabilities to better address our customers' needs. Due primarily to these factors, we believe a recurring revenue customer retention measure that combines recurring subscription, maintenance and service customer contracts provides an accurate representation of our customers' overall behavior. For the twelve months ended June 30, 2018, approximately 93% of our customers with recurring revenue contracts were retained. This customer retention rate is relatively unchanged from our rate for the full year ended December 31, 2017. In the near term, our recurring revenue customer retention rate may modestly decrease driven by our efforts to rationalize our portfolio of solutions and migrate customers from legacy solutions towards our next generation cloud-based solutions.
At June 30, 2018, our cash and cash equivalents were $29.2 million and the carrying amount of our debt under the 2017 Credit Facility was $478.7 million. Our net leverage ratio was 2.23 to 1.00. 
During the six months ended June 30, 2018, we generated $66.4 million in cash flow from operations, had a net increase in our borrowings of $41.4 million, primarily for the acquisition of Reeher, returned $11.7 million to stockholders by way of dividends and had aggregate cash outlays of $25.9 million for purchases of property and equipment and capitalized software development costs.
On January 1, 2018, we adopted ASU 2014-09, using the full retrospective method of transition, which requires that the standard be applied to all periods presented. The impacts of adoption are reflected in the financial information herein. For additional details, see Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements in this report.
Recurring revenue is comprised of fees for the use of our subscription-based software solutions, which includes providing access to cloud-based solutions, hosting services, online training programs, subscription-based analytic services, such as donor acquisitions and data enrichment, and payment services. Recurring revenue also includes fees from maintenance services for our on-premises solutions, services included in our renewable subscription contracts, subscription-based contracts for professional services and variable transaction revenue associated with the use of our solutions.
We continue to experience growth in sales of our cloud-based solutions as we meet the demand of our customers that increasingly prefer cloud-based subscription offerings with integrated analytic, training and payment services. Recurring subscription contracts are typically for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter. We intend to continue focusing on innovation, quality and integration of our cloud-based solutions, which we believe will drive future revenue growth.
The increases in recurring revenue during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, were primarily due to strong demand across our portfolio of cloud-based solutions as revenue from subscriptions increased $31.6 million and $57.8 million, respectively. The inclusion of JustGiving and Reeher also contributed to the increases in recurring revenue and are expected to remain modest in the near term due to U.K. market conditions and our acquisition-related integration efforts. The favorable impacts from subscriptions were partially offset by decreases in maintenance revenue of $5.2 million and $10.7 million, respectively, during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017.
The increases in cost of recurring revenue during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, were primarily due to increases in transaction-based costs related to the payment services integrated in our cloud-based solutions of $4.5 million and $6.5 million, respectively, and compensation costs of $3.6 million and $8.8 million, respectively, driven by resource additions that are directly related to generating recurring revenue as well as the inclusion of JustGiving and Reeher.
The increase in recurring gross margin for the six months ended June 30, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, was primarily the result of the positive economics of new and migrating customers to our next generation cloud-based solutions, a one-time third-party refund related to our integrated payment services and accretive recent business acquisitions, as growth in recurring revenue outpaced the growth in related costs.
One-time services and other revenue is comprised of fees for one-time consulting, analytic and onsite training services, as well as revenue from the sale of our software sold under perpetual license arrangements, fees from user conferences and third-party software referral fees.
Cost of one-time services and other decreased during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, primarily due to decreases in compensation costs, which is in line with the ongoing shift in our go-to-market strategy as discussed above. Productivity gains also contributed to the decreases in cost of one-time services and other.
One-time services and other gross margin decreased during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, as the declines in higher margin analytics and license fees revenue associated with the shift in our go-to-market strategy outpaced the reductions in costs of one-time services and other discussed above. This is a trend we expect to continue in the near term as we complete the transition of our solution portfolio to a cloud-based subscription delivery model.
We continue to make investments to drive sales effectiveness, which is a component of our four-point growth strategy to accelerate revenue growth. We also continue investing in our customer success organization to drive customer outcomes, loyalty, retention, and referrals. The increases in sales, marketing and customer success expense during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, were primarily due to increases in compensation costs of $2.8 million and $4.6 million, respectively, commissions expense of $1.7 million and $2.9 million, respectively, and advertising and marketing costs of $0.8 million and $1.8 million, respectively. Compensation costs increased primarily due to incremental headcount associated with the inclusion of JustGiving and Reeher, as well as annual merit-based salary increases. We intend to make additional investments to increase our direct sales force beginning in the second half of 2018. The increase in commission expense was primarily driven by an increase in commissionable sales. Advertising and marketing costs increased as a result of our inclusion of JustGiving.
The increases in general and administrative expense in dollars and as a percentage of total revenue during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, were primarily due to increases in compensation costs of $2.1 million and $5.2 million, respectively, third-party contractor expenses of $1.8 million and $2.3 million, respectively, and acquisition-related integration costs of $2.2 million and $2.4 million, respectively. The increases in compensation costs were driven by a combination of higher stock-based compensation, salaries and employee benefits, primarily related to the inclusion of JustGiving personnel. The increases in third-party contractor expenses and acquisition-related integration costs were also primarily related to the inclusion of JustGiving.
Interest expense increased during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, primarily due to increases in our average daily borrowings related to our acquisitions of JustGiving in October 2017 and Reeher in April 2018. Also contributing to the increases in interest expense during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 were modest increases in our weighted average effective interest rates.
To the extent that our customers are billed for our solutions and services in advance of delivery, we record such amounts in deferred revenue. Our recurring revenue contracts are generally for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter, billed annually in advance and non-cancelable. We generally invoice our customers with recurring revenue contracts in annual cycles 30 days prior to the end of the contract term.
We have acquired businesses whose net tangible assets include deferred revenue. In accordance with GAAP reporting requirements, we recorded write-downs of deferred revenue from customer arrangements predating the acquisition to fair value, which resulted in lower recorded deferred revenue as of the acquisition date than the actual amounts paid in advance for solutions and services under those customer arrangements. Therefore, our deferred revenue after an acquisition will not reflect the full amount of deferred revenue that would have been reported if the acquired deferred revenue was not written down to fair value. Further explanation of this impact is included below under the caption "Non-GAAP financial measures".
The decreases in our effective income tax rates during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, were primarily due to the impact of the discrete benefit to income tax expense relating to stock-based compensation items, calculated prior to the impact of the U.S. federal corporate tax rate change as a result of the Tax Act. This favorable impact was attributable to an increase in the market price for shares of our common stock, as reported by the Nasdaq Stock Market LLC ("Nasdaq"), as well as an increase in the number of stock awards that vested and were exercised. Most of our equity awards are granted during our first quarter and vest in subsequent years during the same quarter. This discrete benefit to income tax expense relating to stock-based compensation during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 was reduced as a result of the decrease in the U.S. corporate tax rate.
The Tax Act eliminates the exceptions for performance-based compensation and CFO compensation from the 162(m) calculation. A transition rule allows for the grandfathering of performance-based compensation pursuant to a written binding contract in effect as of November 2, 2017. While there is negative discretion inherent in our performance-based compensation plans, it is our position that the intent is for historic contracts to be written and binding. As a result, we have not adjusted the ending estimated deferred tax assets for the performance-based stock compensation or the bonus accrual in our 2018 tax provision.
We have acquired businesses whose net tangible assets include deferred revenue. In accordance with GAAP reporting requirements, we recorded write-downs of deferred revenue under arrangements predating the acquisition to fair value, which resulted in lower recognized revenue than the contributed purchase price until the related obligations to provide services under such arrangements are fulfilled. Therefore, our GAAP revenues after the acquisitions will not reflect the full amount of revenue that would have been reported if the acquired deferred revenue was not written down to fair value. The non-GAAP measures described below reverse the acquisition-related deferred revenue write-downs so that the full amount of revenue booked by the acquired companies is included, which we believe provides a more accurate representation of a revenue run-rate in a given period and, therefore, will provide more meaningful comparative results in future periods. 
The increases in non-GAAP income from operations during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2017, were primarily due to growth in recurring revenue that outpaced the related costs, partially offset by investments we are making in our sales organization, customer success program and solution development efforts, which are discussed above.
Non-GAAP free cash flow is defined as operating cash flow less capital expenditures, including costs required to be capitalized for software development, and capital expenditures for property and equipment.
In addition, we discuss non-GAAP organic revenue growth, non-GAAP organic revenue growth on a constant currency basis and non-GAAP organic recurring revenue growth, in analyzing our performance. We believe that these non-GAAP measures are useful to investors, as a supplement to GAAP measures, for evaluating the periodic growth of our business on a consistent basis. Each of these measures of non-GAAP organic revenue growth excludes incremental acquisition-related revenue attributable to companies acquired in the current fiscal year. For companies, if any, acquired in the immediately preceding fiscal year, each of these non-GAAP organic revenue growth measures reflects presentation of full year incremental non-GAAP revenue derived from such companies as if they were combined throughout the prior period, and they include the non-GAAP revenue attributable to those companies, as if there were no acquisition-related write-downs of acquired deferred revenue to fair value as required by GAAP. In addition, each of these non-GAAP organic revenue growth measures excludes prior period revenue associated with divested businesses. The exclusion of the prior period revenue is to present the results of the divested businesses within the results of the combined company for the same period of time in both the prior and current periods. We believe this presentation provides a more comparable representation of our current business’ organic revenue growth and revenue run-rate. 
Our revenues normally fluctuate as a result of certain seasonal variations in our business. Our transaction revenue has historically been at its lowest in the first quarter due to the timing of customer fundraising initiatives and events. Our revenue from payment services has historically increased during the fourth quarter due to year-end giving. Our revenue from professional services has historically been lower in the first quarter when many of those services commence and in the fourth quarter due to the holiday season. As a result of these and other factors, our total revenue has historically been lower in the first quarter than in the remainder of our fiscal year, with the third and fourth quarters historically achieving the highest total revenues. Our expenses, however, do not vary significantly as a result of these factors, but do fluctuate on a quarterly basis due to varying timing of expenditures. Our cash flow from operations normally fluctuates quarterly due to the combination of the timing of customer contract renewals including renewals associated with customers of acquired companies, delivery of professional services and occurrence of customer events, the payment of bonuses, as well as merit-based salary increases, among other factors. Historically, due to lower revenues in our first quarter, combined with the payment of bonuses from the prior year in our first quarter, our cash flow from operations has been lowest in our first quarter, and due to the timing of customer contract renewals, many of which take place at or near the beginning of our third quarter, our cash flow from operations has been lower in our second quarter as compared to our third and fourth quarters. Partially offsetting these favorable drivers of cash flow from operations in our third and fourth quarters are merit-based salary increases, which are generally effective in April each year. In addition, deferred revenues can vary on a seasonal basis for the same reasons. These patterns may change as a result of the continued shift to online giving, growth in volume of transactions for which we process payments, or as a result of acquisitions, new market opportunities, new solution introductions or other factors. Our cash flow from financing is negatively impacted in our first quarter when most of our equity awards vest, as we pay taxes on behalf of our employees related to the settlement or exercise of equity awards.
At June 30, 2018, our total cash and cash equivalents balance included approximately $16.9 million of cash that was held by operations outside the U.S. While these funds may not be needed to fund our U.S. operations for at least the next twelve months, if we need these funds, we may be required to accrue and pay taxes to repatriate the funds. We currently do not intend nor anticipate a need to repatriate our cash held outside the U.S.
Working capital changes are composed of changes in accounts receivable, prepaid expenses and other assets, trade accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities, and deferred revenue. Cash flow from operations associated with working capital increased $2.6 million during the six months ended June 30, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to an increase in the collection of customer account balances, partially offset by the timing of vendor payments.
During the six months ended June 30, 2018, we used net cash of $45.3 million, primarily for our acquisition of Reeher, while we made a similar investment during the same period in 2017 with our acquisition of AcademicWorks. We used $16.4 million for software development costs, which was up $2.7 million from cash spent during the same period in 2017. The increase in cash outlays for software development costs was primarily driven by development activities related to our next generation cloud-based solutions, and development activities for Blackbaud SKY, our modern cloud platform.
We also spent $9.6 million of cash for purchases of property and equipment during the six months ended June 30, 2018, which was up $3.9 million from cash spent during the same period in 2017. The increase in cash outlays for property and equipment was primarily driven by leasehold improvements for our new global headquarters in Charleston, South Carolina.
During the six months ended June 30, 2018, we had a net increase in borrowings of $41.4 million, which was primarily used to finance the acquisition of Reeher. 
We paid $25.2 million to satisfy tax obligations of employees upon settlement or exercise of equity awards during the six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to $16.6 million during the same period in 2017. The amount of taxes paid by us on the behalf of employees related to the settlement or exercise of equity awards varies from period to period based upon the timing of grants and vesting, employee exercise decisions, as well as the market price for shares of our common stock at the time of settlement. Most of our equity awards currently vest in our first quarter. In addition, during the six months ended June 30, 2018, we paid dividends of $11.7 million, which was relatively consistent with the comparable period of 2017.
Cash used in financing activities associated with changes in restricted cash due to customers increased $223.6 million during the six months ended June 30, 2018 when compared to the same period in 2017, as the amount of restricted cash held and payable by us to customers as of December 31, 2017 was significantly larger than at the same date in 2016.
We have drawn on our credit facility from time to time to help us meet financial needs, such as financing for business acquisitions. At June 30, 2018, our available borrowing capacity under the 2017 Credit Facility was $207.7 million. The 2017 Credit Facility matures in June 2022.
At June 30, 2018, the carrying amount of our debt under the 2017 Credit Facility was $478.7 million. Our average daily borrowings during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 were $487.5 million and $467.6 million, respectively.
The term loan under the 2017 Credit Facility and our other debt require periodic principal payments. The balance of the term loans and any amounts drawn on the revolving credit loans are due upon maturity of the 2017 Credit Facility in June 2022.
The total liability for uncertain tax positions as of June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, was $5.3 million and $5.2 million, respectively. Our accrued interest and penalties related to tax positions taken on our tax returns was $0.9 million and $0.8 million as of June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
On July 30, 2018, our Board of Directors declared a third quarter dividend of $0.12 per share payable on September 14, 2018 to stockholders of record on August 28, 2018.
Approximately 15% of our total revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2018 was generated from operations outside the United States. We do not have significant operations in countries in which the economy is considered to be highly inflationary. Our consolidated financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars and, accordingly, changes in the exchange rate between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar will affect the translation of our subsidiaries’ financial results into U.S. dollars for purposes of reporting our consolidated financial results. The accumulated currency translation adjustment, recorded within accumulated other comprehensive loss as a component of stockholders’ equity, was a loss of $3.8 million as of June 30, 2018 and a loss of $1.4 million as of December 31, 2017.
The vast majority of our contracts are entered into by our U.S. or U.K. entities. The contracts entered into by the U.S. entity are almost always denominated in U.S. dollars or Canadian dollars, and contracts entered into by our U.K., Australian and Irish subsidiaries are generally denominated in British Pounds, Australian dollars and Euros, respectively. Historically, as the U.S. dollar weakened, foreign currency translation resulted in an increase in our revenues and expenses denominated in non-U.S. currencies. Conversely, as the U.S. dollar strengthened, foreign currency translation resulted in a decrease in our revenue and expenses denominated in non-U.S. currencies. During the six months ended June 30, 2018, foreign translation resulted in an increase in our revenues and expenses denominated in non-U.S. currencies. Though we have exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, primarily those between the U.S. dollar and both the British Pound and Canadian dollar, the impact has generally not been material to our consolidated results of operations or financial position. For the six months ended June 30, 2018, the fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates increased our total revenue by $3.8 million and our income from operations by $0.9 million. We will continue monitoring such exposure and take action as appropriate. To determine the impacts on revenue (or income from operations) from fluctuations in currency exchange rates, current period revenues (or income from operations) from entities reporting in foreign currencies were translated into U.S. dollars using the comparable prior year period's weighted average foreign currency exchange rates. These impacts are non-GAAP financial information and are not in accordance with, or an alternative to, information prepared in accordance with GAAP.
in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017.
See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements in this report for a complete discussion of our revenue recognition policies.
Revenues are recognized when control of our services is transferred to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those services.
Our revenue recognition accounting methodology contains uncertainties because it requires us to make significant estimates and assumptions, and to apply judgment.
For example, for arrangements that have multiple performance obligations, we must exercise judgment and use estimates in order to (1) determine whether performance obligations are distinct and should be accounted for separately; (2) determine the standalone selling price of each performance obligation; (3) allocate the transaction price among the various performance obligations on a relative standalone selling price basis; and (4) determine whether revenue for each performance obligation should be recognized at a point in time or over time. 
The following table provides information about shares of common stock acquired or repurchased during the three months ended June 30, 2018. All of these acquisitions were of common stock withheld by us to satisfy tax obligations of employees due upon exercise of stock appreciation rights and vesting of restricted stock awards and units. The level of acquisition activity varies from period to period based upon the timing of grants and vesting as well as employee exercise decisions.
Blackbaud, Inc.
Blackbaud, Inc.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
