We are the world’s leading cloud software company powering social good.
Our portfolio is tailored to the unique needs of vertical markets, with solutions for fundraising and CRM, marketing, advocacy, peer-to-peer fundraising, corporate social responsibility, school management, ticketing, grantmaking, financial management, payment processing and analytics.
Serving the industry for more than three decades, we are headquartered in Charleston, South Carolina and have operations in the United States, Australia, Canada, Costa Rica and the United Kingdom.
The early adopter program for our Cloud Solution for Faith Communities is on track and we expect to soon announce the general availability of Blackbaud Church Management™.
We’ve spent a considerable amount of time working with churches to fully understand their processes and workflows to gain additional insight into the capabilities they need to be successful, and we continue to incorporate that feedback to optimize our platform specifically for their needs.
We have heard from our early adopter customers that our solution stands out as intuitive and easy-to-use with a mobile responsive user experience.
Churches can also add other Blackbaud capabilities from the Cloud Solution for Faith Communities as their needs scale—all through one integrated experience, which is powered by the Blackbaud SKY platform.
Bringing this solution to market is a significant step toward addressing several challenges in the church market and a substantial opportunity for Blackbaud.
During the second quarter of 2019, we continued to progress in the U.S. rollout of Blackbaud Peer-to-Peer Fundraising, powered by JustGiving.
We're excited about the opportunity to disrupt the market landscape by providing this peer-to-peer solution, which is fully integrated across our portfolio of best-in-class cloud solutions.
The market response to this new solution has been positive, with a growing number of customers going live with active campaigns.
We spent much of 2018 working to simplify our sales program and refine our methodology and approach in a uniform way to better enable our salespeople with process and practice.
With the sales structure transformation now largely done, our focus is on adding additional sales headcount and improving overall productivity.
Our account executives continue to lead with total solution selling by vertical, focused on recurring revenue and driving more products per customer, higher ASPs and overall increased customer lifetime value.
We also continue to rapidly advance our existing applications and bring new solutions to market, enabling our sales teams to sell more.
3.Expand TAM into Near Adjacencies through Acquisitions and Product Investments
In January 2019, we completed our acquisition of YourCause, an industry leader in enterprise corporate social responsibility and employee engagement technology, and we continue to be excited about this business.
Since January, we have moved quickly on back-office integration so we can focus on the opportunity ahead of us, which is significant given the trend in institutions of all sizes focusing on corporate social responsibility.
We are focused on operational efficiency to strengthen the business and position us for long-term success.
This continuous effort spans the entire organization as we drive towards a more scalable operating model that creates efficiency and consistency in how we execute through infrastructure investments, productivity initiatives, and organizational re-alignments.
One example is our recent heightened investments in sales hiring.
We have spent the last several years creating one global sales operating model, which allows us to recruit, hire, train and track the progress of a growing sales team in a way we could not have done in the past.
In addition, we have continued executing against our workplace strategy, working to replace and upgrade some of our existing offices and expand our footprint into new locations for customer facing roles.
This has been a multi-year program for us, and we expect to be largely complete by the end of 2019.
The increases in total revenue during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018, were primarily driven by growth in recurring revenue as we continue to see positive demand from customers across our portfolio of cloud-based solutions.
As expected, one-time services and other revenue declined $3.8 million and $9.4 million, respectively, during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 due to our continued shift in focus towards selling cloud-based subscription solutions.
In general, our cloud-based solutions include integrated analytics, training and payments services, and require less implementation services and little to no customization services.
We are also selling more subscription-based contracts for retained services and services embedded in our renewable cloud-based solution contracts.
As a result, we continue to expect one-time services and other revenue to decline.
Income from operations increased during the three months ended June 30, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018.
Increases in stock-based compensation of $1.2 million and amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $0.6 million, also negatively impacted income from operations during the three months ended June 30, 2019.
Income from operations decreased during the six months ended June 30, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018.
Increases in stock-based compensation of $3.8 million, employee severance of $2.6 million, rent expense of $1.6 million and amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $1.7 million, also negatively impacted income from operations during the six months ended June 30, 2019.
The increase in stock-based compensation expense was primarily driven by an increase in the grant date fair value of our annual equity awards granted to employees during the first quarter of 2019, when compared to the grant date fair value of the awards granted during the same period in 2018.
The increase in employee severance was related to the elimination of certain roles within the company.
The increase in rent expense was primarily associated with the lease for our New Headquarters Facility in Charleston, South Carolina, which commenced in April 2018.
Our recurring revenue contracts are generally for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter.
We anticipate a continued decrease in maintenance contract renewals as we transition our solution portfolio and maintenance customers from a perpetual license-based model to a cloud-based subscription delivery model.
In the long term, we also anticipate an increase in recurring subscription contract renewals as we continue focusing on innovation, quality and the integration of our cloud-based solutions, which we believe will provide value-adding capabilities to better address our customers' needs.
Due primarily to these factors, we believe a recurring revenue customer retention measure that combines recurring subscription, maintenance and service customer contracts provides a better representation of our customers' overall behavior.
For the twelve months ended June 30, 2019, approximately 92% of our customers with recurring revenue contracts were retained.
This customer retention rate is unchanged from our rate for the full year ended December 31, 2018.
At June 30, 2019, our cash and cash equivalents were $32.7 million and the carrying amount of our debt under the 2017 Credit Facility was $561.3 million.
Our net leverage ratio was 2.74 to 1.00.
During the six months ended June 30, 2019, we generated $45.1 million in cash from operations, had a net increase in our borrowings of $174.0 million, which was primarily used to finance the acquisition of YourCause, returned $11.8 million to stockholders by way of dividends and had aggregate cash outlays of $29.6 million for purchases of property and equipment and capitalized software development costs.
On January 1, 2019, we adopted ASU 2016-02, using the transition method that allowed us to initially apply the guidance at the adoption date of January 1, 2019 without adjusting comparative periods presented.
Adopting ASU 2016-02 had a material impact on our consolidated balance sheet as we recognized lease liabilities and ROU assets for those leases classified as operating leases.
The impacts of adoption are reflected in the financial information herein.
For additional information regarding the impact of our adoption of ASU 2016-02, see Notes 2 and 10 of our consolidated financial statements in this report.
Recurring revenue is comprised of fees for the use of our subscription-based software solutions, which includes providing access to cloud-based solutions, hosting services, online training programs, subscription-based analytic services, such as donor acquisitions and data enrichment, and payment services.
Recurring revenue also includes fees from maintenance services for our on-premises solutions, services included in our renewable subscription contracts, subscription-based contracts for retained services and variable transaction revenue associated with the use of our solutions.
We continue to experience growth in sales of our cloud-based solutions as we meet the demand of our customers that increasingly prefer cloud-based subscription offerings with integrated analytics, training and payment services.
Recurring subscription contracts are typically for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter.
We intend to continue focusing on innovation, quality and integration of our cloud-based solutions, which we believe will drive future revenue growth.
The increases in recurring revenue during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018, were primarily due to positive demand across our portfolio of cloud-based solutions as revenue from subscriptions increased $20.4 million and $42.2 million, respectively.
The inclusion of Reeher and YourCause contributed to the increases in recurring revenue as both acquisitions were completed after March 31, 2018.
We also saw increases in revenue from subscription-based retained services as well as services embedded in our renewable cloud-based solution contracts.
These favorable impacts from subscriptions were partially offset by decreases in maintenance revenue of $4.7 million and $9.2 million, respectively during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018.
The decreases in maintenance revenue were primarily related to our efforts to migrate customers from legacy on-premises solutions onto our solutions powered by Blackbaud SKY, our modern cloud platform.
The growth in compensation costs was primarily attributable to an increasing portion of our resources now providing subscription-based retained services as opposed to one-time.
The inclusion of Reeher and YourCause also contributed to the increases in cost of recurring revenue during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 when compared to the same periods in 2018.
party refund related to our integrated payment services during the three months ended March 31, 2018 that did not recur in 2019.
One-time services and other revenue is comprised of fees for one-time consulting, analytic and onsite training services, as well as revenue from the sale of our software sold under perpetual license arrangements, fees from user conferences and third-party software referral fees.
One-time services and other revenue decreased during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018, primarily due to decreases in one-time consulting revenue of $2.4 million and $6.2 million, respectively and analytics revenue of $0.9 million and $1.9 million, respectively.
We also continue to sell more subscription-based contracts for retained services and services embedded in our renewable cloud-based solution contracts, both of which are recorded as recurring revenue.
Cost of one-time services and other decreased during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018, primarily due to a decrease in compensation costs of $3.3 million and $6.3 million, respectively, which is in line with the ongoing shift in our go-to-market strategy as discussed above as an increasing portion of our resources are now providing subscription-based retained services as opposed to one-time.
One-time services and other gross margin increased during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018, as the reductions in costs of one-time services and other discussed above outpaced the declines in one-time consulting revenue and higher margin analytics revenue associated with the shift in our go-to-market strategy.
We continue to make investments to drive sales effectiveness, which is a component of our four-point growth strategy.
The increases in sales, marketing and customer success expense in dollars and as a percentage of total revenue during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018, were primarily due to increases in compensation costs of $4.8 million and $11.3 million, respectively.
In addition, compensation costs increased due to incremental headcount associated with the inclusion of Reeher and YourCause.
The increase in commission expense was primarily driven by an increase in commissionable sales.
We continue to make investments to deliver integrated and open solutions in the cloud, which is a component of our four-point growth strategy.
The increases in research and development expense during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018, were primarily due to increases in compensation costs of $2.5 million and $5.8 million, respectively.
The increases in compensation costs were primarily associated with the inclusion of Reeher's and YourCause's engineering resources.
The increase in compensation costs was primarily related to stock-based compensation and our acquisition of YourCause.
The increase in rent expense was related to the lease of our New Headquarters Facility in Charleston, South Carolina, which commenced in April 2018.
During 2017, in an effort to further our organizational objectives including, improved operating efficiency, customer outcomes and employee satisfaction, we initiated a multi-year plan to consolidate and relocate some of our existing offices to highly modern and more collaborative workspaces with short-term financial commitments.
These workspaces are also more centrally located for our employees and closer to our customers and prospects.
Upon adoption of ASU 2016-02 at January 1, 2019, we reduced our operating lease ROU assets recognized at transition by the carrying amounts of the restructuring liabilities for certain leased office spaces that we ceased using prior to December 31, 2018.
See additional details below.
These restructuring activities are currently expected to result in improved operating efficiencies and future annual before-tax savings of between $5.0 million and $6.0 million beginning in 2020.
The increases in interest expense in dollars and as a percentage of total revenue during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018, were primarily due to increases in our average daily borrowings related to our acquisition of YourCause in January 2019.
Also contributing to the increases in interest expense during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 were modest increases in our weighted average effective interest rates.
To the extent that our customers are billed for our solutions and services in advance of delivery, we record such amounts in deferred revenue.
Our recurring revenue contracts are generally for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter, billed annually in advance and non-cancelable.
We generally invoice our customers with recurring revenue contracts in annual cycles 30 days prior to the end of the contract term.
Deferred revenue from recurring revenue contracts increased during the six months ended June 30, 2019, primarily due to new subscription sales of our cloud-based solutions and a seasonal increase in customer contract renewals.
Our acquisition of YourCause on January 2, 2019 has also modestly contributed to the increase in deferred revenue from recurring revenue contracts since December 31, 2018.
Deferred revenue from one-time services and other increased during the six months ended June 30, 2019, primarily due to a seasonal increase in advance registration billings associated with our bbcon user conference, which occurs each year in October.
We have acquired businesses whose net tangible assets include deferred revenue.
advance for solutions and services under those customer arrangements.
Further explanation of this impact is included below under the caption "Non-GAAP financial measures".
The increases in our effective income tax rate during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018, were primarily due to a decrease in the discrete benefit to income tax expense relating to stock-based compensation.
Most of our equity awards are granted during our first quarter and vest in subsequent years during the same quarter.
We use non-GAAP revenue, non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP income from operations, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share internally in analyzing our operational performance.
We have acquired businesses whose net tangible assets include deferred revenue.
In accordance with GAAP reporting requirements, we recorded write-downs of deferred revenue under arrangements predating the acquisition to fair value, which resulted in lower recognized revenue than the contributed purchase price until the related obligations to provide services under such arrangements are fulfilled.
In addition, we discuss non-GAAP organic revenue growth, non-GAAP organic revenue growth on a constant currency basis and non-GAAP organic recurring revenue growth, in analyzing our performance.
Each of these measures of non-GAAP organic revenue growth excludes incremental acquisition-related revenue attributable to companies acquired in the current fiscal year.
For companies, if any, acquired in the immediately preceding fiscal year, each of these non-GAAP organic revenue growth measures reflects presentation of full year incremental non-GAAP revenue derived from such companies as if they were combined throughout the prior period, and they include the non-GAAP revenue attributable to those companies, as if there were no acquisition-related write-downs of acquired deferred revenue to fair value as required by GAAP.
The exclusion of the prior period revenue is to present the results of the divested businesses within the results of the combined company for the same period of time in both the prior and current periods.
We believe this presentation provides a more comparable representation of our current business’ organic revenue growth and revenue run-rate.
Our transaction revenue has historically been at its lowest in the first quarter due to the timing of customer fundraising initiatives and events.
Our revenue from payment services has historically increased during the fourth quarter due to year-end giving.
Historically, due to lower revenues in our first quarter, combined with the payment of bonuses from the prior year in our first quarter, our cash flow from operations has been lowest in our first quarter, and due to the timing of customer contract renewals, many of which take place at or near the beginning of our third quarter, our cash flow from operations has been lower in our second quarter as compared to our third and fourth quarters.
Partially offsetting these favorable drivers of cash flow from operations in our third and fourth quarters are merit-based salary increases, which are generally effective in April each year.
In addition, deferred revenues can vary on a seasonal basis for the same reasons.
Our cash flow from financing is negatively impacted in our first quarter when most of our equity awards vest, as we pay taxes on behalf of our employees related to the settlement or exercise of equity awards.
At June 30, 2019, our total cash and cash equivalents balance included approximately $20.9 million of cash that was held by operations outside the U.S.
While these funds may not be needed to fund our U.S. operations for at least the next twelve months, if we need these funds, we may be required to accrue and pay taxes to repatriate the funds.
We currently do not intend nor anticipate a need to repatriate our cash held outside the U.S.
Cash flow from operations associated with working capital decreased $12.7 million during the six months ended June 30, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to an increase in the collection of customer account balances in 2018 from an aging improvement initiative.
Fluctuations in the timing of vendor payments also contributed to the decrease in cash flow from operation associated with working capital.
Net cash used in investing activities of $138.5 million increased by $67.2 million during the six months ended June 30, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018.
During the six months ended June 30, 2019, we used net cash of $109.4 million, for our acquisition of YourCause, compared to $45.3 million spent on similar investments during the same period in 2018.
We used $23.2 million for software development costs, which was up $6.8 million from cash spent during the same period in 2018.
The increase in cash outlays for software development costs was primarily driven by development activities related to our cloud-based solutions, as well as development activities for Blackbaud SKY, our modern cloud platform.
We also spent $6.4 million of cash for purchases of property and equipment during the six months ended June 30, 2019, which was down $3.2 million from cash spent during the same period in 2018.
The higher cash outlays for property and equipment during the same period in 2018 was primarily driven by leasehold improvements for our New Headquarters Facility in Charleston, South Carolina.
During the six months ended June 30, 2019, we had a net increase in borrowings of $174.0 million, which was primarily used to finance our acquisition of YourCause.
We paid $19.8 million to satisfy tax obligations of employees upon settlement or exercise of equity awards during the six months ended June 30, 2019 compared to $25.2 million during the same period in 2018.
The amount of taxes paid by us on the behalf of employees related to the settlement or exercise of equity awards varies from period to period based upon the timing of grants and vesting, employee exercise decisions, as well as the market price for shares of our common stock at the time of settlement.
Most of our equity awards currently vest in our first quarter.
In addition, during the six months ended June 30, 2019, we paid dividends of $11.8 million, which was relatively consistent with the comparable period of 2018.
Cash used in financing activities associated with changes in restricted cash due to customers increased $201.4 million during the six months ended June 30, 2019 when compared to the same period in 2018, as the amount of restricted cash held and payable by us to customers as of December 31, 2017 was significantly larger than at the same date in 2018.
We have drawn on our credit facility from time to time to help us meet financial needs, such as financing for business acquisitions.
At June 30, 2019, our available borrowing capacity under the 2017 Credit Facility was $119.0 million.
The 2017 Credit Facility matures in June 2022.
At June 30, 2019, the carrying amount of our debt under the 2017 Credit Facility was $561.3 million.
Our average daily borrowings during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 were $585.1 million and $571.4 million, respectively.
The balance of the term loans and any amounts drawn on the revolving credit loans are due upon maturity of the 2017 Credit Facility in June 2022.
The total liability for uncertain tax positions as of June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, was $4.8 million and $3.7 million, respectively.
In February 2019, our Board of Directors approved our annual dividend rate of $0.48 per share to be made in quarterly payments.
On July 30, 2019, our Board of Directors declared a third quarter dividend of $0.12 per share payable on September 13, 2019 to stockholders of record on August 28, 2019.
Approximately 14% of our total revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2019 was generated from operations outside the U.S. We do not have significant operations in countries in which the economy is considered to be highly inflationary.
The accumulated currency translation adjustment, recorded within accumulated other comprehensive loss as a component of stockholders’ equity, was a loss of $8.0 million as of June 30, 2019 and a loss of $6.6 million as of December 31, 2018.
The vast majority of our contracts are entered into by our U.S. or U.K. entities.
The contracts entered into by the U.S. entity are almost always denominated in U.S. dollars or Canadian dollars, and contracts entered into by our U.K., Australian and Irish subsidiaries are generally denominated in British Pounds, Australian dollars and Euros, respectively.
Historically, as the U.S. dollar weakened, foreign currency translation resulted in an increase in our revenues and expenses denominated in non-U.S. currencies.
Conversely, as the U.S. dollar strengthened, foreign currency translation resulted in a decrease in our revenue and expenses denominated in non-U.S. currencies.
During the six months ended June 30, 2019, foreign translation resulted in a decrease in our revenues and expenses denominated in non-U.S. currencies.
For the six months ended June 30, 2019, the fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates reduced our total revenue by $3.8 million and our income from operations by $1.1 million.
We will continue monitoring such exposure and take action as appropriate.
To determine the impacts on revenue (or income from operations) from fluctuations in currency exchange rates, current period revenues (or income from operations) from entities reporting in foreign currencies were translated into U.S. dollars using the comparable prior year period's weighted average foreign currency exchange rates.
The following table provides information about shares of common stock acquired or repurchased during the three months ended June 30, 2019.
The level of acquisition activity varies from period to period based upon the timing of grants and vesting as well as employee exercise decisions.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
