fls.txt



item1.txt
Refer to Note 1 - Basis of Presentation for additional information.
Refer to Note 1 - Basis of Presentation - Corporate Reorganization, for additional information.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this Financial Statement.
References herein to “we,” “us,” “our,” the “company” and “Xerox” refer to Xerox Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries unless the context suggests otherwise.
You should read these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our 2018 Annual Report.
In this Reorganization, shareholders of Xerox (the predecessor publicly held parent company) became shareholders of Xerox Holdings on a one-for-one basis; maintaining the same number of shares and ownership percentage as held in Xerox immediately prior to the Reorganization.
Each share of Xerox Holdings Series A Preferred Stock has the same designations, rights, powers and preferences, and the same qualifications, limitations and restrictions as the shares of Xerox Series B Preferred Stock, with the addition of certain voting rights.
Shares of Xerox Holdings common stock will trade on the New York Stock Exchange under the current ticker symbol “XRX”, formerly used by Xerox.
The contribution and extinguishment were recorded at carrying value.
In March 2019, as part of Project Own It, we entered into a shared services arrangement with HCL Technologies (HCL) pursuant to which we are outsourcing certain global administrative and support functions, including, among others, selected information technology and finance functions (excluding accounting).
The shared services arrangement with HCL includes a total aggregate spending commitment by us of approximately $1.3 billion over the next 7 years.
The spending commitment excludes restructuring and related costs we are expected to incur in connection with the transition of the contemplated functions - refer to Note 12 - Restructuring Programs for additional information.
This realignment included the combination and consolidation of certain sales units to better service customers consistently across the company.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments Credit Losses - Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments, with additional updates being issued in 2018 and 2019.
This update requires measurement and recognition of expected credit losses for financial assets.


item2.txt
Lower revenues from our mid-range ConnectKey devices also reflected the continued impact of organizational changes within our XBS sales organization as part of Project Own It.
The decline in Equipment sales primarily reflected lower revenues from our mid-range products, which were impacted by organizational changes within XBS sales organization, as we transitioned a significant number of accounts from U.S. Enterprise in the first half of 2019.
Net income attributable to Xerox for the six months ended June 30, 2019 increased $179 million as compared to the prior year period primarily due to higher Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates as well as lower Transaction and related costs, net and Income tax expense.
These benefits were partially offset by higher Restructuring and related costs.
Cash flows provided by operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2019 were $539 million, as compared to $451 million in the prior year period primarily reflecting increased dividends from equity investments and lower cash payments for Transaction and related costs.
As a result, we now expect our revenues to decline approximately 6% for the year, excluding an approximate 1.0-percentage point unfavorable impact from currency, compared to our previous guidance of an approximate 5% decline, excluding an approximate 1.0-percentage point unfavorable impact from currency.
Installs include activity from Xerox Services and Xerox-branded products shipped to our XBS sales unit.
•9% decrease in mid-range black-and-white reflecting lower installs of ConnectKey devices primarily from EMEA.


item4.txt
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019.
3.5 By-Laws of Xerox Corporation as amended through July 31, 2019.
3.6 By-Laws of Xerox Holdings Corporation as amended through July 31, 2019.
2 to Credit Agreement, dated as of July 31, 2019, among Xerox Corporation, Xerox Holdings Corporation, Citibank, as Administrative Agent, and the Required Lenders.


part2.txt
c.The DSUs were issued at a deemed purchase price of $32.355 per DSU (aggregate price $613,710), based upon the market value on the date of issuance, in payment of the Annual Director's fees pursuant to Xerox Corporation's 2004 Equity Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors.
3.5 By-Laws of Xerox Corporation as amended through July 31, 2019.
3.6 By-Laws of Xerox Holdings Corporation as amended through July 31, 2019.


