References herein to “we,” “us,” “our,” the “company” and “Xerox” refer to Xerox Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries unless the context suggests otherwise.
You should read these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our 2017 Annual Report.
In third quarter 2018, we determined that the Pension Benefit Obligation (PBO) for our UK funded pension plan at December 31, 2017 was overstated by approximately GBP 40 million (approximately USD $53 or $43 after-tax).
On January 1, 2018, we adopted ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC Topic 606), which superseded nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP.
The core principle of ASC Topic 606 is to recognize revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
We adopted this standard using the modified retrospective method of adoption.
These revenues relate to certain analyst services performed in connection with the installation of equipment that are being considered part of the equipment sale performance obligation in 2018.
Accordingly, in 2018 these revenues are now reported as part of Sales.
As a result of this change, $8 and $25 of revenue was recorded, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, as Sales, which would have been previously recorded as Services revenue in prior periods.These incremental adjustments primarily relate to Fuji Xerox’s Asia Pacific subsidiaries and involve improper revenue recognition, including revenue associated with leasing transactions, additional provisions for bad debt allowances and other asset impairments.
In certain instances, some of the adjustments related to inappropriate accounting and reporting practices in the Fuji Xerox Asia Pacific subsidiaries and are further evidence of inadequate management oversight and an insufficient entity level monitoring system for financial statements of subsidiaries beyond what was previously identified by the IIC.
Total equipment revenue of $511 million decreased 3.8%, including a 1.1-percentage point unfavorable impact from currency.
Total equipment revenue of $1.57 billion declined 1.8% including a 1.3-percentage point favorable impact from currency.
The decrease in Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the three months ended September 30, 2018 was also partially offset by lower Transaction and related costs, net, primarily due to recoveries during third quarter 2018.
The decrease in Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was negatively impacted by Transaction and related costs, net and lower Equity in net income from unconsolidated affiliates, which included our share of a significant restructuring charge recorded by Fuji Xerox in the first quarter of 2018.
The decrease in adjusted1 Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to the respective prior year periods was primarily related to lower revenues and higher income tax expense, partially offset by the continued benefits of cost savings and productivity improvements.
The decrease in adjusted1 Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the three months ended September 30, 2018 was partially offset by higher Equity in net income from unconsolidated affiliates, while adjusted1 Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was negatively impacted by lower Equity in net income from unconsolidated affiliates, which included an out-of-period adjustment recorded during the first quarter of 2018.Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1(B) to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the Quarter Ended June 30, 2018.In July 2018, Registrant’s Board of Directors authorized a $1.0 billion share repurchase program.