fls.txt



item1.txt
Refer to Note 1 - Basis of Presentation for additional information.
Refer to Note 1 - Basis of Presentation for additional information.
References herein to “we,” “us,” “our,” the “Company” refer collectively to both Xerox Holdings and Xerox unless the context suggests otherwise.
This is a combined report of Xerox Holdings and Xerox, which includes separate unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for each registrant.
You should read these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Xerox's 2018 Annual Report.
Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements reflect the activity for both Xerox Holdings and Xerox for all periods presented, unless otherwise noted.
Each share of Xerox Holdings Series A Preferred Stock has the same designations, rights, powers and preferences, and the same qualifications, limitations and restrictions as the shares of Xerox Series B Preferred Stock, with the addition of certain voting rights.
Shares of Xerox Holdings common stock trade on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “XRX”, formerly used by Xerox.
The contribution and extinguishment were recorded at carrying value.
In March 2019, as part of Project Own It, we entered into a shared services arrangement with HCL Technologies (HCL) pursuant to which we are outsourcing certain global administrative and support functions, including, among others, selected information technology and finance functions (excluding accounting).
The shared services arrangement with HCL includes a total aggregate spending commitment by us of approximately $1.3 billion over the next 7 years.
The spending commitment excludes restructuring and related costs we are expected to incur in connection with the transition of the contemplated functions - refer to Note 12 - Restructuring Programs for additional information.


item2.txt
These declines were partially offset by the implementation of a large transactional IT sales arrangement from our XBS organization.
The decline in Equipment sales primarily reflected lower revenues from our mid-range products, which were impacted by organizational changes within the XBS sales organization, that continue to stabilize, as we transitioned a significant number of accounts from U.S. Enterprise in the first half of 2019.
Third quarter 2019 Net income attributable to Xerox Holdings increased $132 million as compared to third quarter 2018 primarily due to lower non-service retirement-related costs and Income tax expense as well as higher Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates.
Net income attributable to Xerox Holdings for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 increased $311 million as compared to the prior year period primarily due to higher Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates as well as lower Income tax expense and non-service retirement-related costs.
These benefits were partially offset by higher Restructuring and related costs.
Cash flows provided by operating activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 were $895 million, as compared to $725 million in the prior year period primarily reflecting lower working capital2, increased dividends from equity investments, and lower cash payments for Transaction and related costs, net.
We expect total revenues to decline approximately 7.9% in 2019, including an approximate 1.5-percentage point unfavorable impact from currency.


item4.txt
In response to this arrangement, the Company has and will continue to align and streamline the design and operation of its financial control environment.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Xerox Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to Xerox Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Xerox Corporation's Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 21, 2019.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019.


part2.txt
Reference is made to the Risk Factors set forth in Part I, Item 1A of Xerox Corporation's 2018 Annual Report.
This program replaced the $1.0 billion of authority remaining under Xerox Corporation’s previously authorized $2.0 billion share repurchase program.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Xerox Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to Xerox Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019.


