fls.txt



item1.txt
References herein to “we,” “us,” “our,” the “company” and “Xerox” refer to Xerox Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries unless the context suggests otherwise.
You should read these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our 2017 Annual Report.
In 2017 Fujifilm publicly announced it had formed an independent investigation committee ("IIC") to conduct a review of the appropriateness of the accounting practices at Fuji Xerox’s New Zealand subsidiary related to the recovery of receivables associated with certain bundled leasing transactions that occurred in, or prior to, Fuji Xerox’s fiscal year ending March 31, 2016.
Accordingly, we revised our previously issued consolidated financial statements for the first quarter of 2017.
On January 1, 2018 we adopted ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC Topic 606), which superseded nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP.
The core principle of ASC Topic 606 is to recognize revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
We adopted this standard using the modified retrospective method of adoption.
These revenues, which are approximately $50 annually, relate to certain analyst services performed in connection with the installation of equipment that are being considered part of the equipment sale performance obligation in 2018.
Accordingly, in 2018 these revenues are now reported as part of Sales.
However, as a result of the contract cost guidance included in ASC Topic 606 and ASC Topic 340-40 "Contracts with Customers", upon adoption, we recorded a transition asset of $153, and a net of tax increase of $117 to retained earnings, related to the incremental cost to obtain contracts.
Significant judgments primarily include the identification of performance obligations in our Document management services arrangements as well the pattern of delivery for those services.
Certain document management services arrangements may also include an embedded lease of equipment.
Lease deliverables include the equipment, financing, maintenance and other executory costs, while non-lease deliverables generally consist of the supplies and non-maintenance services.


item2.txt
In 2018, in connection with the completion of the audits of Fuji Xerox’s fiscal year-end financial statements as of and for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2017, as well as the review of Fuji Xerox’s unaudited interim financial statements as of and for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, additional adjustments and misstatements were identified.
These incremental adjustments primarily relate to Fuji Xerox’s Asia Pacific subsidiaries and involve improper revenue recognition, including revenue associated with leasing transactions, additional provisions for bad debt allowances and other asset impairments.
In certain instances, some of the adjustments related to inappropriate accounting and reporting practices in the Fuji Xerox Asia Pacific subsidiaries and are further evidence of inadequate management oversight and an insufficient entity level monitoring system for financial statements of subsidiaries beyond what was previously identified by the IIC.
Post-sale revenue, declined 0.3% including a 3.8-percentage point favorable impact from currency.
Equipment revenues of $499 million declined by 2.7%, including a 3.7-percentage point favorable impact from currency.
Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was $23 million and included after-tax costs of $155 million related to the amortization of intangible assets, restructuring and related costs, transaction and related costs, non-service retirement-related costs and other discrete adjustments, resulting in adjusted1 net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox of $178 million.
Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the three months ended March 31, 2017 was $46 million and included after-tax costs of $130 million related to the amortization of intangible assets, restructuring and related costs, non-service retirement-related costs and other discrete adjustments, resulting in adjusted1 net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox of $176 million.
The decrease in net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the prior year period was primarily due to lower equity income from our unconsolidated affiliates, which included our share of a significant restructuring charge recorded by Fuji Xerox, transaction and related costs and higher income taxes.
Operating cash flow from continuing operations for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was $216 million, as compared to $132 million for the prior year period.
Cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was $2 million and included capital expenditures (including internal use software) of $18 million which were partially offset by proceeds of $16 million from the sale of non-core business assets.
Post sale revenue primarily reflects contracted services, equipment maintenance, supplies and financing.
Post sale revenue decreased 0.3% as compared to first quarter 2017, with a 3.8-percentage point favorable impact from currency.


item4.txt
3(b) By-Laws of Registrant as amended through August 15, 2016.
31(b) Certification of CFO pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or Rule 15d-14(a).


part2.txt
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(a) to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2017.
3(b) By-Laws of Registrant as amended through August 15, 2016.


