fls.txt



item1.txt
Cypress Semiconductor Corporation (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, "Cypress" or the "Company") reports on a fiscal-year basis.
The Company ends its quarters on the Sunday closest to the end of the applicable calendar quarter, except in a 53-week fiscal year, in which case the additional week falls into the fourth quarter of that fiscal year.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") and include the accounts of Cypress Semiconductor Corporation and its subsidiaries.
In the opinion of management, the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments of a normal, recurring nature, which are necessary to state fairly the financial information included therein.
On September 29, 2019, the Company acquired the minority shareholders' noncontrolling interest in AgigA Tech, Inc. ("AgigA") for total cash consideration of $3.9 million, making AgigA a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company.
The Company will, consistent with the presentation in prior periods, continue to report AgigA's financial results under its Memory Products Division.
On June 3, 2019, the Company entered into a definitive Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement") with Infineon Technologies AG, a stock corporation (Aktiengesellschaft) organized under the laws of the Federal Republic of Germany ("Infineon") and IFX Merger Sub Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Infineon ("Merger Sub").
When the Company receives substantially all of the economic benefits from and directs the use of specified property, plant and equipment, transactions give rise to leases.
Operating leases are included in operating lease right-of-use ("ROU") assets, other current liabilities, and operating lease liabilities in the Company's consolidated balance sheets.
ROU assets represent the Company's right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent the Company's obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
Finance leases are included in property and equipment, current portion of long-term debt, revolving credit facility and long-term portion of debt in the Company's consolidated balance sheets.
The Company has elected the practical expedient within ASC Topic 842 to not separate lease and non-lease components within lease transactions for all classes of assets.
Additionally, the Company has elected the short-term lease exception for all classes of assets, does not apply the recognition requirements for leases of 12 months or less, and recognizes lease payments for short-term leases as expense either straight-line over the lease term or as incurred depending on whether the lease payments are fixed or variable.
The terms of the subleases range from one to eight years, payments are fixed within the contracts, and there are no residual value guarantees or other restrictions or covenants in the leases.
When discount rates implicit in leases cannot be readily determined, the Company uses the applicable incremental borrowing rate at lease commencement to perform lease classification tests on lease components and to measure lease liabilities and ROU assets.
The incremental borrowing rate used by the Company was based on baseline rates and adjusted by the credit spreads commensurate with the Company’s secured borrowing rate, over a similar term.
Other significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2018.
Under this method, the cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings is recognized on the date of adoption (December 31, 2018).
As a result of adoption of this standard, and election of the transition practical expedients, the Company recognized ROU assets and lease liabilities for those leases classified as operating leases under ASC Topic 840 that continued to be classified as operating leases under ASC Topic 842 at the date of initial application.
On June 3, 2019, Infineon, Merger Sub and the Company entered into the Merger Agreement, which provides for Merger Sub, upon the closing of the transaction, to merge with and into the Company (the "Merger"), with the Company continuing as the surviving corporation in the Merger and as a wholly owned subsidiary of Infineon.


item2.txt
Cypress manufactures and sells advanced embedded system solutions for IoT, automotive, industrial, and consumer applications.
Refer to Note 2 Merger Agreement of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Quarterly Report for a description of our pending acquisition by Infineon Technologies AG ("Infineon").
Microcontroller and Connectivity Division  MCD focuses on connectivity and computing solutions for the Internet of Things and automotive solutions that enhance the in-cabin user experience.
The portfolio includes Wi-Fi® and Bluetooth® and Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE), and Wi-Fi plus Bluetooth combo solutions; Traveo™ automotive MCUs, PSoC® programmable MCUs and general-purpose MCUs; CapSense® capacitive-sensing controllers and automotive TrueTouch® touchscreen solutions; a broad line of USB controllers, including solutions for the USB-C and USB Power Delivery standards; and analog PMIC Power Management ICs.
The portfolio includes specialized, high-performance parallel and serial NOR flash memories, static random access memories ("SRAM"), F-RAM™ ferroelectric memory devices, nonvolatile SRAMs ("nvSRAM"), nonvolatile DIMM (''NVDIMM"), PowerGEM® energy modules and other specialty memories.


item3.txt
Our investment portfolio consists of a variety of financial instruments that expose us to interest rate risk, including, but not limited to, money market funds, and certificates of deposit.


item4.txt



part2.txt
•During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, we determined that our investment in Enovix Corporation, which is accounted for as an equity method investment, was other-than temporarily impaired as Enovix did not achieve key planned product development milestones.
•During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, we determined that our investment in Deca Technologies Inc. ("Deca") was other-than temporarily impaired due to significant delays in Deca's commercialization and achievement of scalable production of certain key products, and consequently we recognized an impairment charge of $41.5 million to write down the carrying value of our investment in Deca to $65.1 million (the estimated fair value of our investment as of the end of fiscal 2018).
•During the second quarter of fiscal 2019, we determined that our investment in Deca had become further impaired due to a significant reduction in orders from Deca's key customers, and based on other objective indicators of enterprise value.


