fls.txt
This Quarterly Report includes, among others, forward-looking statements regarding: our expectations regarding dividends, debt repayments, and stock repurchases; our expectations regarding restructuring plan costs and effects; our expectations regarding active litigation matters; the sufficiency of our cash, cash equivalents, and borrowing arrangements to meet our requirements for the next 12 months; possible recognition of certain unrecognized tax benefits within the next 12 months; and the potential impact of our indemnification obligations.


item1.txt
Cypress Semiconductor Corporation (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, "Cypress" or the "Company") reports on a fiscal-year basis.
The Company ends its quarters on the Sunday closest to the end of the applicable calendar quarter, except in a 53-week fiscal year, in which case the additional week falls into the fourth quarter of that fiscal year.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") and include the accounts of Cypress Semiconductor Corporation and its subsidiaries.
These financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included in Cypress' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2018.
When the Company receives substantially all of the economic benefits from and directs the use of specified property, plant and equipment, transactions give rise to leases.
Operating leases are included in operating lease right-of-use ("ROU") assets, other current liabilities, and operating lease liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets.
Finance leases are included in property and equipment, current portion of long-term debt, revolving credit facility and long-term portion of debt in our consolidated balance sheets.
The Company has elected the practical expedient within ASC Topic 842 to not separate lease and non-lease components within lease transactions for all classes of assets.
Other significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2018.
The standard introduces new requirements to increase transparency and comparability among organizations for leasing transactions for both lessees and lessors.
2016-02 requires a lessee to record a right-of-use asset and a lease liability for all leases with terms longer than 12 months.
The Company adopted ASC Topic 842, as of December 31, 2018 and applied the alternative modified retrospective transition method requiring application of the new guidance to all leases existing at, or entered into on or after, the date of adoption, i.e.
As a result of adoption of this standard, and election of the transition practical expedients, the Company recognized ROU assets and lease liabilities for those leases classified as operating leases under ASC Topic 840 that continued to be classified as operating leases under ASC Topic 842 at the date of initial application.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company allocated $65.7 million of goodwill previously recorded in the MPD segment to the NAND business being divested.
Based on an analysis carried out in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $76.6 million which related to the goodwill and intangible assets allocated to the NAND business and classified as held-for-sale.
As of March 31, 2019 and December 30, 2018 inventories related to the NAND business in the amount of $10.8 million and $13.5 million, respectively, were classified as held-for-sale assets as SkyHigh has agreed to purchase such inventories.
SkyHigh will pay cash consideration for these inventories to the Company of a fixed amount and a contingent amount to be determined based on the profit on sales of such inventories generated by SkyHigh, if any.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company determined that its investment in Deca was other-than temporarily impaired and recognized a charge of $41.5 million in order to write down the carrying amount of the investment in Deca to the estimated fair value as of the end of fiscal 2018.
The Company did not have any material assets or liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis using Level 3 inputs as of March 31, 2019 and December 30, 2018.


item2.txt
Cypress manufactures and sells advanced embedded system solutions for automotive, industrial, consumer and enterprise end markets.
Microcontroller and Connectivity Division  MCD focuses on connectivity and computing solutions for the Internet of Things and automotive solutions that enhance the in-cabin user experience.
The portfolio includes Wi-Fi® and Bluetooth® and Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE), and Wi-Fi plus Bluetooth combo solutions; Traveo™ automotive MCUs, PSoC® programmable MCUs and general-purpose MCUs; CapSense® capacitive-sensing controllers and automotive TrueTouch® touchscreen solutions; a broad line of USB controllers, including solutions for the USB-C and USB Power Delivery standards; and analog PMIC Power Management ICs.
The portfolio includes specialized, high-performance parallel and serial NOR flash memories, static random access memories ("SRAM"), F-RAM™ ferroelectric memory devices, nonvolatile SRAMs ("nvSRAM"), and other specialty memories.
As we continue to implement our strategies, there are many internal and external factors that could impact our ability to meet any or all of our objectives.


item3.txt
Our investment portfolio consists of a variety of financial instruments that expose us to interest rate risk, including, but not limited to, money market funds, and certificates of deposit.


item4.txt
In designing and evaluating our disclosure controls and procedures, management recognized that disclosure controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the disclosure controls and procedures are met.


part2.txt
The information required by this item is included in Note 11 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I Item 1, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and is incorporated herein by reference.
Upon launch, SkyHigh entered into a wafer supply agreement with SKH, and back-end manufacturing and transition services agreements with Cypress.


