 Item 1. Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements  



SIMULATIONS PLUS, INC. 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 



As of 





The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 





SIMULATIONS PLUS, INC. 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 



For the three and nine months ended May 31, 2018 and May 31, 2017 





The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 





SIMULATIONS PLUS, INC. 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 



For the nine months ended May 31, 2018 and May 31, 2017 







The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 





Simulations Plus, Inc.  



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 









This report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended May 31, 2018, should be read in conjunction with the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 31, 2017, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on November 14, 2017. As contemplated by the SEC under Article 3 of Regulation S-X, the accompanying consolidated financial statements and footnotes have been condensed and therefore do not contain all disclosures required by generally accepted accounting principles. The interim financial data are unaudited; however, in the opinion of Simulations Plus, Inc. ("we", "our", "us"), the interim data includes all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair statement of the results for the interim periods. Results for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of those to be expected for the full year. 



Organization 



Simulations Plus, Inc. (“Simulations Plus”, “Lancaster”) was incorporated on July 17, 1996. On September 2, 2014, Simulations Plus, Inc. acquired all of the outstanding equity interests of Cognigen Corporation (“Cognigen”, “Buffalo”) and Cognigen became a wholly owned subsidiary of Simulations Plus, Inc. Simulations Plus, Inc., acquired DILIsym Services, Inc. (DILIsym) as a wholly owned subsidiary pursuant to a stock purchase agreement dated May 1, 2017. On June 1, 2017, the Company consummated the acquisition of all outstanding equity interests of DILIsym pursuant to the terms of the Stock Agreement, with DILIsym becoming a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. (Collectively, “Company”, “we”, “us”, “our”) 



Lines of Business 



The Company designs and develops pharmaceutical simulation software to promote cost-effective solutions to a number of problems in pharmaceutical research and in the education of pharmacy and medical students, and it provides consulting services to the pharmaceutical and chemical industries. Recently, the Company has begun to explore developing software applications for defense and for health care outside of the pharmaceutical industry. 





Principles of Consolidation 



The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Simulations Plus, Inc. and, as of September 2, 2014 and June 1, 2017, respectively, its wholly owned subsidiaries, Cognigen Corporation and DILIsym Services, Inc. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated in consolidation. 



Estimates 



Our financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. These estimates and assumptions are affected by management’s application of accounting policies. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Significant accounting policies for us include revenue recognition, accounting for capitalized computer software development costs, valuation of stock options, and accounting for income taxes. 



Reclassifications 



Certain numbers in the prior year have been reclassified to conform to the current year's presentation. 



Revenue Recognition 







As a byproduct of ongoing improvements and upgrades for the new programs and new modules of software, some modifications are provided to our customers who have already purchased software at no additional charge. Other software modifications result in new, additional-cost modules that expand the functionality of the software. These are licensed separately. We consider the modifications that are provided without charge to be minimal, as they do not significantly change the basic functionality or utility of the software, but rather add convenience, such as being able to plot some additional variable on a graph in addition to the numerous variables that had been available before, or adding some additional calculations to supplement the information provided from running the software. Such software modifications for any single product have typically occurred once or twice per year, sometimes more, sometimes less. Thus, they are infrequent. The Company provides, for a fee, additional training and service calls to its customers and recognizes revenue at the time the training or service call is provided. 



Generally, we enter into one-year license agreements with customers for the use of our pharmaceutical software products. We recognize revenue on these contracts when all the criteria are met. Most license agreements have a term of one year; however, from time to time, we enter into multiyear license agreements. We generally unlock and invoice software one year at a time for multiyear licenses. Therefore, revenue is recognized one year at a time. Certain of the Company's software products are housed and supported on the Company's computer networks. Software revenues for those products are included in income over the life of the contract. 



We recognize revenue on sales of our DILIsym subsidiary in accordance with ASC 605-25, “Revenue Recognition, Multiple-Element Arrangements”. Our multiple-deliverable arrangements consist of consulting arrangements at our DILIsym subsidiary. We determined all elements to be separate units of accounting as they have standalone value to the customers. We allocate the revenue derived from these arrangements among all the deliverables. We base such allocation on the relative selling price of each deliverable. We recognize the allocated revenue for each deliverable when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, the price is fixed and determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. 





Cash and Cash Equivalents 



For purposes of the statements of cash flows, the Company considers all highly liquid investments purchased with original maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents. 



Accounts Receivable 



We analyze the age of customer balances, historical bad-debt experience, customer creditworthiness, and changes in customer payment terms when making estimates of the collectability of the Company’s trade accounts receivable balances. If we determine that the financial conditions of any of our customers deteriorated, whether due to customer-specific or general economic issues, an increase in the allowance may be made. Accounts receivable are written off when all collection attempts have failed. 



Capitalized Computer Software Development Costs 



Software development costs are capitalized in accordance with ASC 985-20, “Costs of Software to Be Sold, Leased, or Marketed”. Capitalization of software development costs begins upon the establishment of technological feasibility and is discontinued when the product is available for sale. 



The establishment of technological feasibility and the ongoing assessment for recoverability of capitalized software development costs require considerable judgment by management with respect to certain external factors including, but not limited to, technological feasibility, anticipated future gross revenues, estimated economic life, and changes in software and hardware technologies. Capitalized software development costs are comprised primarily of salaries and direct payroll-related costs and the purchase of existing software to be used in our software products. 





Amortization of capitalized software development costs is calculated on a product-by-product basis using the straight-line method over the estimated economic life of the products (not to exceed five years). Amortization of software development costs amounted to $331,862 and $290,567 for the three months ended May 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $952,894 and $864,443 for the nine months ended May 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. We expect future amortization expense to vary due to increases in capitalized computer software development costs. 



We test capitalized computer software development costs for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. 



Property and Equipment 







Maintenance and minor replacements are charged to expense as incurred. Gains and losses on disposals are included in the results of operations. 



Goodwill and indefinite-lived assets 



The Company performs valuations of assets acquired and liabilities assumed on each acquisition accounted for as a business combination and recognizes the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their acquisition-date fair value. Acquired intangible assets include customer relationships, software, trade names, and noncompete agreements. The Company determines the appropriate useful life by performing an analysis of expected cash flows based on historical experience of the acquired businesses. Intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives using the straight-line method, which approximates the pattern in which the majority of the economic benefits are expected to be consumed. 



Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquired entity over the fair value of the acquired net assets. Goodwill is not amortized, instead it is tested for impairment annually or when events or circumstances change that would indicate that goodwill might be impaired. Events or circumstances that could trigger an impairment review include, but are not limited to, a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, unanticipated competition, a loss of key personnel, significant changes in the manner of the Company's use of the acquired assets or the strategy for the Company's overall business, significant negative industry or economic trends, or significant underperformance relative to expected historical or projected future results of operations. 



Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level, which is one level below or the same as an operating segment. As of May 31, 2018, the Company determined that it has three reporting units, Simulations Plus, Cognigen Corporation, and DILIsym Services, Inc. When testing goodwill for impairment, the Company first performs a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is necessary to perform step one of a two-step annual goodwill impairment test for each reporting unit. The Company is required to perform step one only if it concludes that it is more likely than not that a reporting unit's fair value is less than its carrying value. Should this be the case, the first step of the two-step process is to identify whether a potential impairment exists by comparing the estimated fair values of the Company's reporting units with their respective book values, including goodwill. If the estimated fair value of the reporting unit exceeds book value, goodwill is considered not to be impaired, and no additional steps are necessary. If, however, the fair value of the reporting unit is less than book value, then the second step is performed to determine if goodwill is impaired and to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. The amount of the impairment loss is the excess of the carrying amount of the goodwill over its implied fair value. The estimate of implied fair value of goodwill is primarily based on an estimate of the discounted cash flows expected to result from that reporting unit but may require valuations of certain internally generated and unrecognized intangible assets such as the Company's software, technology, patents, and trademarks. If the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to the excess. 



As of May 31, 2018, the entire balance of goodwill was attributed to two of the Company's reporting units, Cognigen Corporation and DILIsym Services. Intangible assets subject to amortization are reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable. There were no changes to goodwill, nor has the Company recognized any impairment charges, during the three-month periods ended May 31, 2018 and 2017. 





Business Acquisitions 



The Company accounted for the acquisition of Cognigen and DILIsym Services, Inc., using the purchase method of accounting where the assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recognized based on their respective estimated fair values. The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Determining the fair value of certain acquired assets and liabilities is subjective in nature and often involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions, including, but not limited to, the selection of appropriate valuation methodology, projected revenue, expenses and cash flows, weighted average cost of capital, discount rates, estimates of advertiser and publisher turnover rates, and estimates of terminal values. Business acquisitions are included in the Company's consolidated financial statements as of the date of the acquisition. 



Fair Value of Financial Instruments 







For certain of our financial instruments, including accounts receivable, accounts payable, accrued payroll and other expenses, accrued bonus to officer, and accrued warranty and service costs, the amounts approximate fair value due to their short maturities. 











As of May 31, 2018, and August 31, 2017, the Company has a liability for contingent consideration related to its acquisition of the DILIsym Services, Inc. The fair-value measurement of the contingent consideration obligations is determined using Level 3 inputs. The fair value of contingent consideration obligations is based on a discounted cash flow model using a probability-weighted income approach. These fair-value measurements represent Level 3 measurements as they are based on significant inputs not observable in the market. Significant judgment is employed in determining the appropriateness of these assumptions as of the acquisition date and for each subsequent period. Accordingly, changes in assumptions could have a material impact on the amount of contingent consideration expense the Company records in any given period. Changes in the value of the contingent consideration obligations are recorded in the Company’s Consolidated Statement of Operations. 



The following is a reconciliation of contingent consideration value. 







Research and Development Costs 



Research and development costs are charged to expense as incurred until technological feasibility has been established. These costs include salaries, laboratory experiment, and purchased software that was developed by other companies and incorporated into, or used in the development of, our final products. 



Income Taxes 



The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with ASC 740-10, “Income Taxes” which requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been included in the financial statements or tax returns. 



Under this method, deferred income taxes are recognized for the tax consequences in future years of differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their financial reporting amounts at each year end based on enacted tax laws and statutory tax rates applicable to the periods in which the differences are expected to affect taxable income. Valuation allowances are established, when necessary, to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized. The provision for income taxes represents the tax payable for the period and the change during the period in deferred tax assets and liabilities. 



Intellectual property 



On February 28, 2012, we bought out a royalty agreement with Enslein Research of Rochester, New York. The cost of $75,000 is being amortized over 10 years under the straight-line method. Amortization expense for each of the three-month periods ended May 31, 2018 and 2017 was $1,875, and was $5,625 for each of the nine-month periods ended May 31, 2018, and 2017. Accumulated amortization as of May 31, 2018 and August 31, 2017 were $46,875 and $41,250, respectively. 



On May 15, 2014, we entered into a termination and nonassertion agreement with TSRL, Inc., pursuant to which the parties agreed to terminate an exclusive software licensing agreement entered into between the parties in 1997. As a result, the Company obtained a perpetual right to use certain source code and data, and TSRL relinquished any rights and claims to any GastroPlus products and to any claims to royalties or other payments under that 1997 agreement. We agreed to pay TSRL total consideration of $6,000,000, which is being amortized over 10 years under the straight-line method. Amortization expense for each of the three-month periods ended May 31, 2018 and 2017 was $150,000, and $450,000 for each of the nine-month periods ended May 31, 2018 and 2017. Accumulated amortization as of May 31, 2018 and August 31, 2017 were $2,425,000 and $1,975,000, respectively. 



On June 1, 2017, as part of the acquisition of DILIsym Services, Inc. the Company acquired certain developed technologies associated with drug induced liver disease (DILI). These technologies were valued at $2,850,000 and are being amortized over 9 years under the straight-line method. Amortization expense for the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018 was $79,176 and $237,500, respectively, and is included in cost of revenues. Accumulated amortization as of May 31, 2018 and August 31, 2017 was $316,667 and $79,176, respectively. 



Total amortization expense for intellectual property agreements for the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018 and 2017 was $231,042 and $151,875, respectively, and total amortization expense for the nine months ended May 31, 2018 and 2017 was $693,125 and $455,625 respectively. Accumulated amortization as of May 31, 2018 was $2,788,542 and $2,095,417 as of August 31, 2017. 



Intangible assets 









Amortization expense for each of the three-month and nine-month periods ended May 31, 2018 and 2017 was $89,375 and $36,875, and $268,125 and $110,625, respectively. According to policy, in addition to normal amortization, these assets are tested for impairment as needed. 



Earnings per Share 







Stock-Based Compensation 





Impairment of Long-lived Assets 



The Company accounts for the impairment and disposition of long-lived assets in accordance with ASC 350, “Intangibles – Goodwill and Other” and ASC 360, “Property and Equipment”. Long-lived assets to be held and used are reviewed for events or changes in circumstances that indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. We measure recoverability by comparing the carrying amount of an asset to the expected future undiscounted net cash flows generated by the asset. If we determine that the asset may not be recoverable, or if the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated future undiscounted cash flows, we recognize an impairment charge to the extent of the difference between the fair value and the asset's carrying amount. No impairment losses were recorded during the nine months ended May 31, 2018 and 2017. 



Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements 



In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which supersedes existing guidance on accounting for leases in "Leases (Topic 840)" and generally requires all leases to be recognized in the consolidated balance sheet. ASU 2016-02 is effective for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018; early adoption is permitted. The provisions of ASU 2016-02 are to be applied using a modified retrospective approach. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this standard on its consolidated financial statements. 





In May 2014, the Franchise Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASU 2014-09). The standard will eliminate the transaction- and industry-specific revenue recognition guidance under current generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. (GAAP) and replace it with a principles-based approach for determining revenue recognition. ASU 2014-09 is effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2017. Early adoption is permitted for years beginning after December 15, 2016. The revenue recognition standard is required to be applied retrospectively, including any combination of practical expedients as allowed in the standard. We are evaluating the impact, if any, of the adoption of ASU 2014-09 to our financial statements and related disclosures. The Company has not yet selected a transition method nor has it determined the effect of the standard on its ongoing financial reporting. In April 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-10, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which amends certain aspects of the Board's new revenue standard, ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers. The standard should be adopted concurrently with adoption of ASU 2014-09 which is effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2017. The Company has commenced its assessment of these new standards, developed a project plan to guide the implementation, and is evaluating the impact these new standards will have on its consolidated financial statements. In the second and third quarters, the company executed a project to evaluate the impact of these changes, which included a review of existing contracts with customers, an evaluation of the specific terms of those contracts and the appropriate treatment under the new standards, and a comparison of that new treatment to the Company’s existing accounting policies, to identify differences. This project is well advanced and key findings and conclusions are currently being discussed. The standard can be applied either retrospectively to each period presented or as a cumulative effect adjustment as of the date of adoption. The Company has not yet determined if it plans to utilize the full retrospective or modified retrospective method of adoption. In the fourth quarter the Company will complete its analysis, draft disclosures, and calculate any transition adjustment, if required, once the analysis is complete. The Company believes that it is following an appropriate timeline to allow for proper adoption on the implementation date of September 1, 2018. The company will continue to monitor new customer contracts until the transition date. 













On June 1, 2017, the Company acquired DILIsym Services, Inc. The agreement provided for a working capital adjustment, an eighteen-month $1,000,000 holdback provision against certain representations and warrantees, and an Earn-out agreement of up to an additional $5,000,000 in Earn-out payments based on earnings over the next three years. The Earn-out liability has been recorded at an estimated fair value. Payments under the Earn-out liability will be due starting in FY 2019. It is estimated that approximately 38% of the Earn-out liability as well as the holdback will be paid in 2019 and the majority of the remaining Earn-out will be paid in the following year. 











Leases 



We lease approximately 13,500 square feet of space in Lancaster, California. The original lease had a five-year term with two, three-year options to extend. The initial five-year term expired in February 2011, and we extended the lease to February 2, 2014. In June 2013, the lease was amended to extend the term to February 2, 2017. The amended lease also provides for an annual base rent increase of 3% per year and two, two-year options to extend. In May 2016 the Company exercised the two, two-year options extending the term of the lease through February 2, 2021 at a fixed rate of $25,000 per month. The new extension agreement allowed the Company with 90 days’ notice to opt out of the remaining lease in the last two years of the term upon payment of a recapture payment equal to the 3% base payment increase that would have been due under the original agreement. 



Our Buffalo subsidiary leases approximately 12,623 square feet of space in Buffalo, New York. The initial five-year term expires in October 2018; the lease allows for a three-year option to extend to October 2021. The current base rent is $15,638 per month. 



In September 2017 DILIsym signed a three-year lease for approximately 1,900 rentable square feet of space in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina. The initial three-year term expires in October 2020. The base rent is $5,021 per month with an annual 3% adjustment. Prior to this lease DILIsym was on a month-to-month rental. 



Rent expense, including common area maintenance fees for the three months ended May 31, 2018, and 2017 was $144,589 and $128,011, respectively, and $424,077 and $375,564 for the nine months ended May 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 



Employment Agreements 



In the normal course of business, the Company has entered into employment agreements with certain of its key management personnel that may require compensation payments upon termination. 



License Agreement 





Income Taxes 



We follow guidance issued by the FASB with regard to our accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in the financial statements. Such guidance prescribes a recognition threshold of more likely than not and a measurement process for financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. In making this assessment, a company must determine whether it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained upon examination, based solely on the technical merits of the position and must assume that the tax position will be examined by taxing authorities. Our policy is to include interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. Interest and penalties totaled $-0- for fiscal year 2018. We file income tax returns with the IRS and various state jurisdictions and India. Our federal income tax returns for fiscal year 2015 and 2017 are open for audit, and our state tax returns for fiscal year 2014 through 2017 remain open for audit. 



Our review of prior year tax positions using the criteria and provisions presented in guidance issued by FASB did not result in a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. 



Litigation 



From time to time, we may be involved in routine legal proceedings, as well as demands, claims and threatened litigation, which arise in the normal course of our business. Litigation can be expensive and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of legal proceedings, particularly complex legal proceedings, cannot be predicted with any certainty. 



We are not a party to any legal proceedings and are not aware of any pending legal proceedings of any kind. 







Dividend 









Equity Incentive Plan 



On February 23, 2007, the Board of Directors adopted and the shareholders approved the 2007 Stock Option Plan under which a total of 1,000,000 shares of common stock had been reserved for issuance. On February 25, 2014 the shareholders approved an additional 1,000,000 shares increasing the total number of shares that may be granted under the Option Plan to 2,000,000. This plan terminated in February 2017 by its term. 



On December 23, 2016 the Board of Directors adopted, and on February 23, 2017 the shareholders approved, the 2017 Equity Incentive Plan under which a total of 1,000,000 shares of common stock has been reserved for issuance. This plan will terminate in December 2026. 



As of May 31, 2018, employees and directors hold stock options to purchase 1,161,976 shares of common stock at exercise prices ranging from $1.00 to $17.71. 













During the three and nine-month periods ended May 31, 2018, the Company issued 2,232 and 6,765 shares of stock to non-management directors of the Company valued at $36,716 and $110,262, respectively as compensation for services rendered to the Company. 





Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentration of credit risk consist principally of cash, cash equivalents, and trade accounts receivable. The Company holds cash and cash equivalents at banks located in California and North Carolina with balances that often exceed FDIC insured limits. Historically, the Company has not experienced any losses in such accounts and believes it is not exposed to any significant credit risk on cash and cash equivalents. However, considering the current banking environment, the Company is investigating alternative ways to minimize its exposure to such risks. While the Company may be exposed to credit losses due to the nonperformance of its counterparties, the Company does not expect the settlement of these transactions to have a material effect on its results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition. The Company maintains cash at financial institutions that may, at times, exceed federally insured limits. At May 31, 2018 the Company had cash and cash equivalents exceeding insured limits by $6,254,000. 



Revenue concentration shows that international sales accounted for 41% and 34% of net sales for the nine months ended May 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Three customers accounted for 9% (a dealer account in Japan representing various customers), 7%, and 5% of net sales during the nine months ended May 31, 2018. Three customers accounted for 8%, 6% (a dealer account in Japan representing various customers), and 5% of sales for the nine months ended May 31, 2017. 



Accounts receivable concentration shows that six customers comprised 13% (a dealer account in Japan representing various customers), 9%, 6%, 6%, 5%, and 5% of accounts receivable at May 31, 2018, compared to three customers comprising 14% and 12% (a dealer account in Japan representing various customers) and 8% of accounts receivable at May 31, 2017. 



We operate in the computer software industry, which is highly competitive and changes rapidly. Our operating results could be significantly affected by our ability to develop new products and to find new distribution channels for new and existing products. 



The majority of our customers are in the pharmaceutical industry. Consolidation and downsizing in the pharmaceutical industry could have an impact on our revenues and earnings going forward. 





We account for segments and geographic revenues in accordance with guidance issued by the FASB. Our reportable segments are strategic business units that offer different products and services. 





































We maintain a 401(K) Plan for all eligible employees, and we make matching contributions equal to 100% of the employee’s elective deferral, not to exceed 4% of total employee compensation. We can also elect to make a profit-sharing contribution. Our contributions to this Plan amounted to $95,585 and $64,233 for the three months ended May 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively and $238,011 and $179,123 for the nine months ended May 31, 2018 and 2017 respectively. 





DILIsym Services, Inc. 



On May 1, 2017, the Company entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement (the “Stock Agreement”) with DILIsym Services, Inc. (“DILIsym”). On June 1, 2016, the Company consummated the acquisition of all outstanding equity interests of DILIsym pursuant to the terms of the Stock Agreement, with DILIsym becoming a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. We believe the combination of Simulations Plus and DILIsym provides substantial future potential based on the complementary strengths of each of the companies. 





Under the terms of the Stock Agreement, as described below, the Company will pay the former shareholders of DILIsym total consideration of approximately $10,463,000. 



On June 1, 2017, the Company paid the former shareholders of DILIsym a total of $4,515,982, which included a $4,000,000 initial payment and a preliminary working capital payment of $515,982. Additional working capital adjustments of $247,328 were due under the agreement and were paid subsequent to August 31, 2017. 



Within three business days following the eighteen-month anniversary of the date of the Stock Agreement, May 1, 2017, and subject to any offsets, the Company will pay the former shareholders of DILIsym a total of $1,000,000. The agreement calls for Earn-out payments up to an additional $5,000,000 based on a formula of pretax earnings over the next three years. The Earn-out liability has been recorded at fair value. 







Goodwill has been provided in the transaction based on estimates of future earnings of this subsidiary including anticipated synergies associated with the positioning of the combined company as a leader in model-based drug development. Based on the structure of the transaction, the Company does not anticipate benefiting from any tax deductions in future periods for recognized goodwill. 



PROFORMA INFORMATION (UNAUDITED) 



Consolidated supplemental Pro Forma information 



The following consolidated supplemental pro forma information assumes that the acquisition of DILIsym took place on September 1, 2016 for the income statement for the three-month and nine-month periods ended May 31, 2017. These amounts have been calculated after applying the Company’s accounting policies and adjusting the results of DILIsym to reflect the same expenses in the three-month period ended May 31, 2017. The adjustments include costs of acquisition, and amortization of intangibles and other technologies acquired during the merger, assuming the fair-value adjustments applied on September 1, 2016, together with consequential tax effects. 







On June 26, 2018, the Company announced the appointment of a new Chief Executive Officer(CEO), Shawn O’Connor, who replaces the founding CEO, Walter S. Woltosz. Mr. Woltosz will remain as Chairman of the Board of Directors. 



On July 6, 2018, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.06 per share to our shareholders. The dividend will be distributed on Thursday August 2, 2018, for shareholders of record as of Wednesday July 26, 2018. 





