Item 1: Financial Statements (unaudited) 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 
1. Basis of Presentation 
Nature of Operations 
Product Lines 
Antenna Products  
Test and Measurement Products  
Effective August 2018, the Company consolidated its organizational structure to drive growth and address the convergence in the Industrial IoT, public safety, and 4G infrastructure markets and the emergence of new technologies such as 5G (the “Reorganization”). The Company’s operations, engineering, business development, sales and marketing, and operational general and administrative functions were consolidated into a single enterprise-wide organization. As a result of the Reorganization that occurred in the third quarter 2018, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, as the chief operating decision maker (“CODM”) began assessing operating  
Basis of Consolidation 
Foreign Operations 
The Company is exposed to foreign currency fluctuations due to its foreign operations and because products are sold internationally. The functional currency for the Company’s foreign operations is predominantly the applicable local currency. Accounts of foreign operations are translated into U.S. dollars using the exchange rate in effect at the applicable balance sheet date for assets and liabilities and average monthly rates prevailing during the period for revenue and expense accounts. Adjustments resulting from translation are included in accumulated other comprehensive loss, a separate component of stockholders’ equity. Gains and losses resulting from other transactions originally in foreign currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars are included in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. Net foreign exchange gains resulting from foreign currency transactions included in other income, net was $198 and $37 for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Net foreign exchange gains resulting from foreign currency transactions included in other income, net was $226 and $28 for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.  
Recent Accounting Pronouncements 
In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2016-02, Leases (“Topic 842”), which amends existing guidance to require lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by long-term leases and to disclose additional quantitative and qualitative information about leasing arrangements. This ASU also provides clarifications surrounding the presentation of the effects of leases in the statement of operations and statement of cash flows. The Company adopted this guidance on January 1, 2019. The Company commenced its assessment of Topic 842 in the second half of 2018 and developed a project plan to guide the implementation. The Company completed this project planin which it analyzed the ASU's impact on its leases, surveyed the Company's key employees, assessed the portfolio of leases, and established a future lease process to keep the lease accounting portfolio up to date. The Company also evaluated the key policy elections and considerations under the standard and completed the internal policy documentation to address the new standard requirements. The Company adopted this new guidance using the updated modified transition method allowed per ASU 2018-11 of Topic 842. Upon adoption on January  
1, 2019, total assets and liabilities increased due to the recording of right-of-use assets of $1.5 million and lease liabilities of $1.6 million. See Note 10 for additional information and disclosures required by this new standard. 
2. Fair Value of Financial Instruments 
Cash equivalents are measured at fair value and investments are recognized at amortized cost in the Company’s financial statements. Accounts receivable and other investments are financial assets with carrying values that approximate fair value due to the short-term nature of these assets. Accounts payable is a financial liability with a carrying value that approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of these liabilities. 
3. Earnings per Share 
At September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, cash and cash equivalents included bank balances and investments with original maturities less than 90 days. At September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the Company’s cash equivalents were invested in highly liquid AAA rated money market funds that are required to comply with Rule 2a-7 of the Investment Company Act of 1940. Such funds utilize the amortized cost method of accounting, seek to maintain a constant $1.00 per share price, and are redeemable upon demand. The Company restricts its investments in AAA money market funds to those invested 100% in either short-term U.S. government agency securities or bank repurchase agreements collateralized by these same securities. The fair values of these money market funds are established through quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (Level 1 inputs). The Company’s cash in U.S. banks is insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation up to the insurable limit of $250.  
The Company had $2.8 million and $0.8 million of cash and cash equivalents in foreign bank accounts at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively. The Company’s cash in its foreign bank accounts is not insured. Within the cash in foreign bank accounts, the Company had cash of $2.8 million and $0.6 million in China bank accounts at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively. As of September 30, 2019, the Company has no intentions of repatriating the cash in its foreign bank accounts in China. If the Company decides to repatriate the cash in the foreign bank accounts, it may have trouble doing so in a timely manner. The Company may also be exposed to foreign currency fluctuations and taxes if it repatriates these funds. The Company completed the closure of its Israeli subsidiary during the fourth quarter of 2018 and repatriated the subsidiary’s remaining cash of $0.2 million  
during the second quarter of 2019. The foreign currency exchange impact related to the repatriation of these funds did not have a material impact on the financial statements.  
Investments 
At September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the Company’s short-term investments consisted of U.S. government agency bonds, A or higher rated corporate bonds, and certificates of deposit. All the investments at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018 were classified as held-to-maturity. The bonds have original maturities greater than 90 days and mature in less than one year. The Company’s bond investments are recorded at the purchase price and carried at amortized cost.  
The Company categorizes its financial instruments within a fair value hierarchy according to accounting guidance for fair value. The fair value hierarchy is described under the Fair Value of Financial Instruments in Note 2. For the Level 2 investments, the Company uses quoted prices of similar assets in active markets. The fair values in the table above reflect net unrealized losses of $29 and $21 at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.  
5. Goodwill and Intangible Assets 
The goodwill is related to the test and measurement product line, not to the whole Company. The test and measurement product line is a reporting unit because the Company has discrete financial information necessary to perform goodwill impairment testing for this reporting unit under the accounting guidance. The Company evaluates the goodwill based on the cash flows for the test and measurement product line.  
Intangible Assets 
6. Balance Sheet Information 
Accounts Receivable 
Accounts receivable are recorded at invoiced amounts with standard net terms that range between 30 and 90 days. The Company extends credit to its customers based on an evaluation of a customer’s financial condition and collateral is generally not required. The Company maintains an allowance for estimated uncollectible accounts receivable. The allowance is based on the Company’s assessment of known delinquent accounts, historical experience, and other currently available evidence of the collectability and the aging of accounts receivable. The Company’s allowance for doubtful accounts was $0.1 million at September 30, 2019 and at December 31, 2018.  
Inventories 
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market and include material, labor and overhead costs using the first-in, first-out method of costing. Inventories as of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018 were composed of raw materials, sub-assemblies, work-in-process and finished goods. The Company had consigned inventory with customers of $0.2 million and $0.9 million at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively. The Company records allowances to reduce the value of inventory to the lower of cost or market, including allowances for excess and obsolete inventory. Reserves for excess inventory are calculated based on our estimate of inventory in excess of normal and planned usage. Obsolete reserves are based on our identification of inventory where the carrying value is above net realizable value. The allowance for inventory losses was $3.4 million and $3.3 million at September 30, 2019 and at December 31, 2018, respectively. 
Prepaid and Other Current Assets 
Prepaid assets are stated at cost and are amortized over the useful lives (up to one year) of the assets. 
Property and Equipment 
Depreciation and amortization expense was approximately $0.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Depreciation and amortization expense was approximately $2.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Amortization for finance leases is included in depreciation and amortization expense. See Note 10 for information related to finance leases. 
The condensed consolidated statements of operations include $0.9 million and $0.8 million of stock compensation expense for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The condensed consolidated statements of operations include $3.2 million and $2.6 million of stock compensation expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The Company accounts for forfeitures as they occur.  
Restricted Stock – Service Based 
The intrinsic value of service-based restricted shares that vested during the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 was $32 and $36 respectively. The intrinsic value of service-based restricted shares that vested during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 was $2.2 million and $0.8 million, respectively.  
At September 30, 2019, total unrecognized compensation expense related to restricted stock was approximately $2.0 million to be recognized through 2022 over a weighted average period of 1.3 years. 
The Company grants restricted stock units as employee incentives. Restricted stock units are primarily granted to foreign employees for long-term incentive purposes. Employee restricted stock units are service-based awards and are amortized over the vesting period. At the vesting date, these units are converted to shares of common stock. The Company records expense on a straight-line basis for restricted stock units. 
The intrinsic value of service-based restricted stock units that vested and were issued as shares during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 was $30 and $29, respectively. No service-based restricted stock units vested during the three months ended September 30, 2019 or 2018.   
As of September 30, 2019, the unrecognized compensation expense related to the unvested portion of the Company’s restricted stock units was approximately $30 , to be recognized through 2022 over a weighted average period of 1.2 years. 
Stock Options 
The Company grants stock options to purchase common stock primarily to certain new employees. The exercise price of the stock options is no less than the fair value of the Company’s stock on the grant date. Outstanding stock options have either a seven-year or ten-year life and generally vest over a period of four years, 25% after one year, and ratably on a monthly basis thereafter. Stock options may be exercised at any time prior to their expiration date or within 180 days of termination of employment, or such shorter time as may be provided in the related stock option agreement.  
The intrinsic value is based on the share price of $8.40 at September 30, 2019. 
Performance-Based Equity Awards 
The performance period for the 2019 LTIP is from January 1, 2019 through December 31, 2021 and the participants are required to be in service at the determination date of the award following the end of the performance period in order to receive the award. Shares earned under the 2019 LTIP will be fully vested shares. Stock compensation expense is amortized over the performance period for these awards based on estimated achievement of the goal. At target, the total fair market value of the award was $0.9 million based on the share price of $5.27 on the grant date. 
Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”) 
The ESPP enables eligible employees to purchase common stock at the lower of 85% of the fair market value of the common stock on the first or last day of each offering period. Each offering period is approximately six months. The Company received proceeds of $0.3 million from the issuance of 95,376 shares under the ESPP in February 2019 and received proceeds of $0.4 million from the issuance of 68,212 shares under the ESPP in February 2018. The Company received proceeds of $0.4 million from the issuance of 85,483 shares under the ESPP in August 2019 and received proceeds of $0.3 million from the issuance of 88,583 shares under the ESPP in August 2018. 
Based on the 15% discount and the fair value of the option feature of the ESPP, it is considered compensatory. Compensation expense is calculated using the fair value of the employees’ purchase rights under the Black-Scholes model. 
The dividend yield rate was calculated by dividing the Company’s annual dividend by the closing price on the grant date. The risk-free interest rate was based on the U.S. Treasury yields with a remaining term that approximates the expected life of the options granted. The volatility was based on a five-year historical period of the Company’s stock price. The expected life was based on the offering period. 
The Company grants equity awards under the PCTEL, Inc. Stock Plan (the “Stock Plan”) to members of its Board of Directors as an annual retainer and for committee service. These awards are shares of the Company’s stock that vest upon issuance. New directors receive a one-time grant that vests over three years. In June 2019, the Company issued 79,918 shares of the Company’s stock with a fair value of $0.4 million for the director’s annual retainer and for committee service. In June 2018, the Company issued 60,988 shares of the Company’s stock with a fair value of $0.4 million for the directors’ annual retainer and for committee service.  
Employee Withholding Taxes on Stock Awards 
Employee Benefit Plans 
9. Commitments and Contingencies 
China Restructuring 
Warranty Reserve and Sales Returns 
The Company adopted Topic 842 as of January 1, 2019, using the transition method per ASU No. 2018-11, wherein entities are allowed to apply the new leases standard at the adoption date. Accordingly, all periods prior to January 1, 2019 were presented in accordance with the previous ASC Topic 840 (“Topic 840”), Leases, and no retrospective adjustments were made to the comparative periods presented. Adoption of Topic 842 resulted in an increase to total assets of $1.5 million and to liabilities of $1.6 million due to the recording of operating lease right-of-use assets ("ROU") and operating lease liabilities. Finance leases were not impacted by the adoption of Topic 842, as finance lease liabilities and the corresponding ROU assets were already recorded in the balance sheet under the previous guidance, Topic 840. The adoption did not materially impact the Company’s consolidated statements of operations or cash flows. 
The Company has operating leases for facilities and finance leases for office equipment. Leases with an initial term of 12 months or less are not recorded in the balance sheet. The Company has elected the practical expedient to account for each separate lease  
component of a contract and its associated non-lease components as a single lease component, thus causing all fixed payments to be capitalized. The Company also elected the package of practical expedients permitted within the new standard, which among other things, allows the Company to carry forward historical lease classifications. The Company determines if an arrangement is a lease at inception of a contract.  
ROU assets represent the Company's right to use an underlying asset during the lease term and lease liabilities represent the Company's obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease. ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at the lease commencement date based on the net present value of fixed lease payments over the lease term. The Company's lease term is deemed to include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that it will exercise that option. ROU assets also include any advance lease payments made and exclude lease incentives. As most of the Company's operating leases do not provide an implicit rate, the Company uses its incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments on a collateralized basis. Finance lease agreements generally include an interest rate that is used to determine the present value of future lease payments. Operating fixed lease expense and finance lease depreciation expense are recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
In January 2019, the Company entered into an eleven-year lease ending February 28, 2031 for 21,030 square feet of office space in Clarksburg, Maryland for the Company’s test and measurement product line. The Company will move the operations for its test and measurement product line from its Germantown, Maryland office to the new office in the first quarter 2020. The Company recognized a present value right of use asset of $2.1 million in August 2019, which was the lease commencement date for accounting purposes. The present value of the right of use asset reflects 14 months of rent abatement and up to $1.5 million in tenant improvement incentives in the form of cash reimbursements which the Company is expected to fully utilize.  
The Company’s gross unrecognized tax benefit was $0.7 million at September 30, 2019 and at December 31, 2018.  
12. Product Line, Customer and Geographic Information 
The following tables are the product line revenues and gross profits for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018. 
There were no customers that accounted for 10% or more of revenues during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018. 
The following table represents the customers that accounted for 10% or more of total trade accounts receivable at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018.  
13. Revenue from Contracts with Customers 
All of the Company’s revenue relates to contracts with customers. The Company’s accounting contracts are from purchase orders or purchase orders combined with purchase agreements. The majority of the Company’s revenue is recognized on a “point-in-time” basis and a nominal amount of revenue is recognized “over time”. For the sale of antenna products and test and measurement products, the Company satisfies its performance obligations generally at the time of shipment or upon delivery based on the contractual terms with its customers. For products shipped on consignment, the Company recognizes revenue upon delivery from the consignment location. For its test and measurement software tools, the Company has a performance obligation to provide software maintenance and support for one year. The Company recognizes revenues for the maintenance and support over this period.  
There were no contract assets at September 30, 2019 or December 31, 2018. The Company records contract liabilities for deferred revenue and customer prepayments. Contract liabilities are recorded in accrued liabilities in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets. The contract liability was $0.3 million and $0.2 million at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively. The Company recognized revenue of $0.1 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018, respectively, related to contract liabilities at the beginning of the period. 
On November 6, 2019 the Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program pursuant to which the Company may repurchase up to $7.0 million of its common stock, effective immediately through the end of 2020. Such purchases may be made from time to time at prevailing prices in the open market, by block purchases, in private transactions or otherwise. The repurchases will be funded with cash on hand. 
Item 1: Legal Proceedings 
Item 1A: Risk Factors 
