ITEM 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 



EFFECT OF FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES AND EXCHANGE RATE RISK MANAGEMENT 



We conduct business operations outside of the United States through our foreign operations. Some of our foreign operations maintain their accounting records in their local currencies. Consequently, period to period comparability of results of operations is affected by fluctuations in exchange rates. The primary currencies to which we have exposure are the Korean won, Japanese yen, Euro, Singapore dollar and the New Taiwan dollar. Approximately 31% of our revenue is transacted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. However, we also incur expenses in foreign countries that are transacted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, which provides a natural hedge and mitigates the exposure on the Consolidated Statements of Income. We periodically enter into forward contracts in an effort to manage foreign currency exchange exposure on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. However, we are unlikely to be able to hedge these exposures completely. We do not enter into forward contracts or other derivative instruments for speculative or trading purposes. 



Fluctuations in foreign currencies have not had a material impact on our Consolidated Statements of Income for the six months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018. During the six months ended March 31, 2019, we recorded $1.4 million in foreign currency translation gains, net of tax, that are included in other comprehensive income. These gains and losses primarily relate to changes in the U.S. dollar value of assets and liabilities denominated in local currencies when these asset and liability amounts are translated at month-end exchange rates. 



MARKET RISK AND SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS RELATED TO FOREIGN EXCHANGE RATE RISK 



We have performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% additional adverse movement in foreign exchange rates. As of March 31, 2019, the analysis demonstrated that such market movements would not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows over a one-year period. Actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from this analysis based on changes in the timing and amount of foreign currency rate movements and our actual exposures. 





 INDEX  



ITEM 3. DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIES 



Not applicable. 



