The condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements contained in this report include the accounts of Watsco, all of its wholly owned subsidiaries and the accounts of three joint ventures with Carrier Corporation (“Carrier”), in each of which Watsco maintains a controlling interest.
Sales of residential central air conditioners, heating equipment, and parts and supplies are seasonal.
Furthermore, results of operations can be impacted favorably or unfavorably based on weather patterns, primarily during the Summer and Winter selling seasons.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued guidance on accounting for leases, which requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets for the rights and obligations created by those leases.
In July 2018, the FASB issued updated guidance that provides an additional transition method of adoption that allows entities to initially apply the standard at the adoption date and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.
The adoption of this standard and its related amendments (collectively, the “New Lease Standard”) on January 1, 2019 did not result in the recognition of a cumulative adjustment to opening retained earnings under the additional transition method, nor did it have a significant impact on our consolidated statements of income or cash flows.
In January 2017, the FASB issued guidance to simplify the subsequent measurement of goodwill by eliminating Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test.
Under this updated standard, an entity should recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value, but the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.
tax-deductible goodwill on the carrying amount of the reporting unit when measuring the goodwill impairment loss, if any.In 2009, we formed a joint venture with Carrier Corporation (“Carrier”), which we refer to as Carrier Enterprise I, in which Carrier contributed 95 of its company-owned locations in 13 Sun Belt states and Puerto Rico, and its export division in Miami, Florida, and we contributed 15 locations that distributed Carrier products.
In the following narratives, computations and other information referring to “same-store basis” exclude the effects of locations closed, acquired, or locations opened, unless they are within close geographical proximity to existing locations, during the immediately preceding 12 months.
Revenues for the third quarter of 2019 increased $98.9 million, or 8%, including $58.7 million from locations opened and acquired during the preceding 12 months, offset by $4.2 million from locations closed.
Sales of HVAC equipment (68% of sales) increased 8%, sales of other HVAC products (29% of sales) increased 11% and sales of commercial refrigeration products (3% of sales) increased 1%.
On a same-store basis, revenues increased $44.4 million, or 3%, as compared to the same period in 2018, reflecting a 4% increase in sales of HVAC equipment (69% of sales), which included a 6% increase in residential HVAC equipment, a 2% increase in sales of other HVAC products (27% of sales) and 1% increase of commercial refrigeration products (4% of sales).
Gross profit for the third quarter of 2019 increased $15.7 million, or 5%, primarily as a result of increased revenues.
Gross profit margin for the quarter ended September 30, 2019 declined 60 basis-points to 24.0% versus 24.6% for the same period in 2018, primarily due to the benefit of Selling, general and administrative expenses for the third quarter of 2019 increased $12.5 million, or 6%, primarily due to increased revenues.
Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of revenues for the quarter ended September 30, 2019 decreased to 15.3% versus 15.5% for the same period in 2018.
Selling, general and administrative expenses included $1.5 million of additional costs for 2019 in excess of 2018 for ongoing technology initiatives, driven in part by our acquisition of Alert Labs in August 2018.