fls.txt
10-Q contains or incorporates by reference statements that are not historical in nature and that are intended to be, and are hereby identified as, “forward-looking statements” as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


item1.txt
The condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements contained in this report include the accounts of Watsco, all of its wholly owned subsidiaries and the accounts of three joint ventures with Carrier Corporation (“Carrier”), in each of which Watsco maintains a controlling interest.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued guidance on accounting for leases, which requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets for the rights and obligations created by those leases.
In July 2018, the FASB issued updated guidance that provides an additional transition method of adoption that allows entities to initially apply the standard at the adoption date and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.
The adoption of this standard and its related amendments (collectively, the “New Lease Standard”) on January 1, 2019 did not result in the recognition of a cumulative adjustment to opening retained earnings under the additional transition method, nor did it have a significant impact on our consolidated statements of income or cash flows.
In January 2017, the FASB issued guidance to simplify the subsequent measurement of goodwill by eliminating Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test.
Under this updated standard, an entity should recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value, but the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.
tax-deductible goodwill on the carrying amount of the reporting unit when measuring the goodwill impairment loss, if any.
We elected the package of practical expedients which did not require us to reassess (1) whether existing contracts contain embedded leases, (2) the lease classification of existing leases, and (3) whether initial direct costs for existing leases would qualify for capitalization under the New Lease Standard.
Finance lease ROU assets at June 30, 2019 of $2,759 are included in property and equipment, net in our condensed consolidated unaudited balance sheet.
Finance lease liabilities at June 30, 2019 of $2,852 are included in current portion of long-term obligations and other long-term obligations, net of current portion in our condensed consolidated unaudited balance sheet.
ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term, and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
Operating lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement dates of the respective leases in determining the present value of the applicable lease payments.
Lease payments for short-term leases, which are 12 months or less without a purchase option that is likely to be exercised, are recognized as lease cost on a straight-line basis over the lease term.


item2.txt
In 2009, we formed a joint venture with Carrier Corporation (“Carrier”), which we refer to as Carrier Enterprise I, in which Carrier contributed 95 of its company-owned locations in 13 Sun Belt states and Puerto Rico, and its export division in Miami, Florida, and we contributed 15 locations that distributed Carrier products.
In April 2011, Carrier contributed 28 of its company-owned locations in the Northeast U.S., and we contributed 14 locations in the Northeast U.S.
In the following narratives, computations and other information referring to “same-store basis” exclude the effects of locations closed, acquired, or locations opened, unless they are within close geographical proximity to existing locations, during the immediately preceding 12 months.
Revenues for the second quarter of 2019 increased $39.1 million, or 3%, including $22.8 million from locations opened and acquired during the preceding 12 months, offset by $3.6 million from locations closed.
On a same-store basis, revenues increased $19.9 million, or 1%, as compared to the same period in 2018, reflecting a 3% increase in sales of HVAC equipment (69% of sales), which included a 4% increase in residential HVAC equipment, a 2% decrease in sales of other HVAC products (28% of sales) and a 1% decrease in sales of commercial refrigeration products (3% of sales).
Gross profit for the second quarter of 2019 increased $7.2 million, or 2%, primarily as a result of increased revenues.
Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of revenues for the quarter ended June 30, 2019 increased to 14.3% versus 14.0% for the same period in 2018.
Other income of $3.0 million and $3.2 million for the second quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively, represented our share of the net income of RSI.
Interest expense, net for the second quarter of 2019 increased $0.4 million, or 59%, primarily as a result of an increase in average outstanding borrowings and a higher effective interest rate for the 2019 period, in each case under our revolving credit facility, as compared to the same period in 2018.
The decrease was primarily due to lower estimated foreign withholding taxes in the second quarter of 2019 as compared to the same period in 2018.
Net Income Attributable to Watsco, Inc. Net income attributable to Watsco for the quarter ended June 30, 2019 increased $0.2 million compared to the same period in 2018. non-controlling interest related to the purchase of the additional 20% interest in Homans, partially offset by higher selling, general and administrative expenses and interest expense as discussed above.
Revenues for the first half of 2019 increased $43.8 million, or 2%, including $26.9 million from locations opened and acquired during the preceding 12 months, offset by $6.2 million from locations closed.
For residential HVAC equipment, the increase in revenues was primarily due to realization of price increases and a higher mix of high-efficiency air conditioning and heating systems, which sell at higher unit prices, resulting in a 3% increase in the average selling price.
Gross profit for the first half of 2019 increased $10.1 million, or 2%, primarily as a result of increased revenues.


item4.txt



part2.txt



