Our results of operations could be affected by factors such as changes in foreign currency rates or weak economic conditions in foreign markets. We derive net sales in U.S. dollars and other currencies including Canadian dollars, Euros, Chinese renminbi, British pounds, Australian dollars, Brazilian reais or other currencies. For the three months ended July 28, 2018, 21.1 percent of net sales were derived in currencies other than U.S. dollars. We have expenses in currencies other than U.S. dollars relating to our sales, service, and manufacturing operations. The cost of raw materials derived from international sources can be impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency. We have foreign currency cash accounts to operate our global business. These accounts are also impacted by changes in foreign currency rates. As of July 28, 2018, we had $7.6 million denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.
Our exposure to market rate risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our marketing obligations and long-term accounts receivable. As of July 28, 2018, our outstanding marketing obligations were $0.4 million, all of which were in fixed rate obligations. 
In connection with the sale of certain display systems, we have entered into various types of financing with customers. The aggregate amounts due from customers include an imputed interest element. The majority of these financings carry fixed rates of interest. As of July 28, 2018, our outstanding long-term receivables were $3.0 million. Each 25 basis point increase in interest rates would have an associated immaterial annual opportunity cost.
The following table provides maturities and weighted average interest rates on our financial instruments sensitive to changes in interest rates.
Of our $15.9 million in cash balances at July 28, 2018, $8.3 million were denominated in U.S. dollars, of which $4.4 million was held by our foreign subsidiaries. At July 28, 2018, we had an additional $7.6 million in cash balances denominated in foreign currencies, of which $6.2 million were maintained in accounts of our foreign subsidiaries. A portion of the cash held in foreign accounts is used to collateralize outstanding bank guarantees issued by our foreign subsidiaries.
