We design, manufacture and sell a wide range of display systems to customers throughout the world. We focus our sales and marketing efforts on markets, geographical regions and products. Our five business segments consist of four domestic business units and the International business unit. The four domestic business units consist of Commercial, Live Events, High School Park and Recreation, and Transportation, all of which include the geographic territories of the United States and Canada. Disclosures related to our business segments are provided in "Note 5. Segment Reporting" of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report. 
Our net sales and profitability historically have fluctuated due to the impact of uniquely configured orders, such as display systems for professional sports facilities, colleges and universities, and spectacular projects in the commercial area, as well as the seasonality of the sports market. Uniquely configured orders can include several displays, controllers, and subcontracted structure builds, each of which can occur on varied schedules per the customer's needs. Outdoor installation sales can be impacted by outdoor weather conditions and the construction season. Our third fiscal quarter tends to be a slower quarter because it includes two holidays, it is affected by sports seasonality, and generally less outdoor construction work occurs due to weather conditions. 
Our mission is to be the world leader at informing and entertaining audiences through dynamic audio-visual communication systems. We organize into business units to focus on customer loyalty over time to earn new and replacement business because our products have a finite lifetime. See "Note 5. Segment Reporting" of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report for further information. Our strategies include the creation of a comprehensive line of innovative solutions and systems and our ability to create and leverage platform designs and technologies. These strategies align us to effectively deliver value to our varied customers and their market needs, while serving our stakeholders over the long-term. We focus on creating local capabilities for sales, service, and manufacturing in geographies with expected digital market opportunities. We believe consistently generating profitable growth will provide value to our stakeholders (customers, employees, shareholders, suppliers, and communities).
•our percentage of market share by comparing our estimated revenue to the total estimated global digital display revenue,
•our order growth compared to the overall digital market order change,
•financial metrics such as annual order volume and profit change as compared to our previous financial results,
•customer retention and expansion rates, and 
•our ability to generate profits over the long-term to provide a shareholder return.
•National accounts standard display market opportunities due to customers' desire to communicate their message, advertising and content consistently across the country. Increased demand is possible from national retailers, quick serve restaurants, petroleum retailers, and other nationwide organizations. 
•Additional standard display offerings using micro-light emitting diode ("LED") designs.
•Dynamic messaging systems demand growth due to market adoption and expanded use of this technology. 
•The use of architectural lighting products for commercial buildings, which real estate owners use to add accents or effects to an entire side or circumference of a building to communicate messages or to decorate the building.
•The continued deployment of digital billboards as Out-of-Home ("OOH") advertising companies continue developing new sites and replacing digital billboards reaching end of life. This is dependent on no adverse changes occurring in the digital billboard regulatory environment restricting future billboard deployments, as well as maintaining our current market share in a business that is concentrated in a few large OOH companies.
•Lower product costs, driving an expansion of the marketplace.
•Our product and service offerings, including additional micro-LED offerings which remain the most integrated and comprehensive offerings in the industry.
•The competitive nature of sports teams, which strive to out-perform their competitors with display systems.
•Increasing use of LED technologies replacing signage previously using LCD technology in and surrounding live events facilities.
•Increased demand for video systems in high schools as school districts realize the revenue generating potential of these displays compared to traditional scoreboards and these systems' ability to provide or enhance academic curriculum offerings for students.
•Increased demand for different types of displays and dynamic messaging systems, such as message centers at schools to communicate to students, parents and the broader community.
•Lower system costs driving the use of more sophisticated displays in school athletic facilities, such as large integrated video systems.
•Expanding control system options tailored for the markets' needs.
Daktronics, Inc. operates on a 52- or 53-week fiscal year, with our fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to April 30 of each year. When April 30 falls on a Wednesday, the fiscal year ends on the preceding Saturday. Within each fiscal year, each quarter is comprised of 13-week periods following the beginning of each fiscal year. In each 53-week year, an additional week is added to the first quarter, and each of the last three quarters is comprised of a 13-week period. The fiscal year ended April 27, 2019 consisted of 52 weeks. Fiscal 2020 will be a 53-week year; therefore, the six months ended November 2, 2019 contains operating results for 27 weeks while the six months ended October 27, 2018 contains operating results for 26 weeks.
Net Sales
The decrease in orders for the three months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to the softer market in the on-premise and OOH niches, partially offset by an increase in large orders in the spectacular niche. 
Orders decreased for the three months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago due to a decrease in the number of projects for college and universities venues.
Orders increased for the three months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago due to the variability in order timing.
Orders decreased for the three months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was due to the variability of timing caused by large projects. 
Orders increased for the three months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to general variations in the timing of account-based order placements.
Product Order Backlog
The product order backlog as of November 2, 2019 was $182 million as compared to $150 million as of October 27, 2018 and $207 million at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2020. Historically, our product order backlog varies due to the seasonality of our business, the timing of large projects, and customer delivery schedules for these orders. The product order backlog as of November 2, 2019 increased in all business units from October 27, 2018.
The gross profit percent decreased in our Commercial, Live Events, and High School Park and Recreation business units for the reasons described above. Additionally, the Commercial business unit experienced increased costs related to products covered under long-term service agreements. The gross profit percent increased in the Transportation business unit primarily due to higher sales volumes over relatively fixed infrastructure costs, which was partially offset by an increase in warranty expense. The gross profit percent increased in the International business unit primarily due to lower warranty expense and higher sales volumes over relatively fixed infrastructure costs. 
Contribution Margin
Selling expense in our Commercial and High School Park and Recreation business units increased in the second quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to the same quarter a year ago due to personnel related expenses and increased marketing efforts. Selling expense in our International business unit decreased in the second quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to the same quarter a year ago due to bad debt recovery and a decrease in third-party commissions. Selling expense in our Live Events and Transportation business units for the second quarter of fiscal 2020 remained relatively flat compared to the same quarter a year ago. 
Other Operating Expenses
General and administrative expenses in the second quarter of fiscal 2020 increased as compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to an increase in professional fees and personnel related expenses. 
Product design and development expenses consist primarily of salaries, other employee-related costs, professional services, facilities costs and equipment-related costs and supplies. Product design and development investments in the near term are focused on developing or improving our video technology over a wide range of pixel pitches for both indoor and outdoor applications. These new or improved technologies are focused on varied pixel density for image quality and use, expanded product line offerings for our various markets and geographies, improved quality and reliability, and improved cost points. We plan to make continued investments in our software and controller capabilities throughout our various product offerings. Through our design efforts, we focus on standardizing display components and control systems for both single site and network displays. 
Other Income and Expenses 
The change in interest income, net for the second quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to the change in investment levels caused by the volatility of working capital needs.
We calculate the provision for income taxes during interim reporting periods by applying an estimate of the annual effective tax rate for the full fiscal year to “ordinary” income or loss (pretax income or loss excluding unusual or infrequently occurring discrete items) for the reporting period. Due to various factors, including operations in multiple jurisdictions worldwide, our effective tax rate is subject to fluctuation. 
We have recorded an effective tax rate benefit of 63.8 percent for the second quarter of fiscal 2020 as compared to an effective tax rate expense of 5.8 percent for the second quarter of fiscal 2019. The change in the effective tax rate, as compared to the same period one year ago, is primarily driven by differences in estimated tax credits proportionate to estimated pre-tax book income for the period.
Net Sales
Sales and orders in all business units were impacted as a result of the six months ended November 2, 2019 including 27 weeks compared to the more common 26 weeks. The six months ended October 27, 2018 contained 26 weeks. 
For net sales, during the first six months ended November 2, 2019, we achieved a $13.2 million per week average run rate as compared to $12.6 million per week during the first six months ended October 27, 2018, or an approximate 4.6% increase. This change was driven by the order volume reasons described below and the timing of conversion related to the seasonality in our business.
For orders, during the first six months ended November 2, 2019, we achieved a $12.5 million per week average run rate as compared to $12.0 million per week during the first six months ended October 27, 2018, or an approximate 4.8% increase. We had an increase in orders placed during the first six months ended November 2, 2019 related to new releases of our product offerings.
Orders increased for the six months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago due to an increase in the number of projects for professional sports and arena venues.
Orders decreased for the six months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago due to the variability in order timing and a decrease in large video projects compared to the same period last year.
Orders decreased for the six months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to the variability of timing caused by large projects.
Orders increased for the six months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to general variations in the timing of large contracts in professional sports stadium and account-based order placements.
The decrease in our gross profit percentage for the six months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to an increase in tariff related expenses of approximately $2.6 million, or a 0.7% impact to gross profit, as last year at this time tariffs were just being introduced on US imports of aluminum, steel, and components from China. We also experienced additional expenses of approximately $3.0 million for project delivery costs and for an existing litigation claim estimate. Total warranty as a percent of sales decreased to 2.2% for the three months ended November 2, 2019 as compared to 2.5% during the six months ended October 27, 
Contribution Margin
All areas of selling expenses were impacted as a result of the six months ended November 2, 2019 including 27 weeks compared to the more common 26 weeks. The six months ended October 27, 2018 contained 26 weeks. Selling expense in our Commercial, Live Events, and High School Park and Recreation business units increased in the six months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period a year ago primarily due to personnel related expenses and increased marketing efforts. Selling expenses in our International business unit decreased in the six months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to bad debt recovery and a decrease in third-party commissions. Selling expenses in our Transportation business unit remained relatively flat in the six months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago.
Other Operating Expenses
All areas of operating expenses were impacted as a result of the six months ended November 2, 2019 including 27 weeks compared to the more common 26 weeks. The six months ended October 27, 2018 contained 26 weeks.
General and administrative expenses in the six months ended November 2, 2019 increased as compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to an increase in professional fees and personnel related expenses. 
Product design and development expenses consist primarily of salaries, other employee-related costs, professional services, facilities costs and equipment-related costs and supplies. Product design and development investments in the near term are focused on developing or improving our video technology over a wide range of pixel pitches for both indoor and outdoor applications. These new or improved technologies are focused on varied pixel density for image quality and use, expanded product line offerings for our various markets and 
geographies, improved quality and reliability, and improved cost points. We plan to make continued investments in our software and controller capabilities throughout our various product offerings. Through our design efforts, we focus on standardizing display components and control systems for both single site and network displays. 
Other Income and Expenses 
The change in interest income, net in the six months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to the change in investment levels caused by the volatility of working capital needs.
Our effective tax rate benefit was 14.6 percent for the six months ended November 2, 2019 as compared to an effective tax rate of 0.0 percent for the six months ended October 27, 2018. The change in the effective tax rate, as compared to the same period one year ago, is primarily driven by differences in tax credits proportionate to estimated pre-tax book income for the period.
Net cash used in operating activities was $10.3 million for the first six months of fiscal 2020 compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $22.6 million in the first six months of fiscal 2019. The $32.9 million decrease in cash used in operating activities from the first six months of fiscal 2019 to the first six months of fiscal 2020 was the result of changes in net operating assets and liabilities of $33.8 million, $0.6 million in depreciation and amortization, and $0.6 million in other non-cash items, net, adjusted by a $1.1 million increase in net income and $1.0 million contingent liability adjustment.
Working capital was $126.6 million and $119.6 million at November 2, 2019 and April 27, 2019, respectively. The changes in working capital, particularly changes in accounts receivable, accounts payable, inventory, and contract assets and liabilities, and the sports market seasonality can have a significant impact on the amount of net cash provided by operating activities largely due to the timing of payments and receipts. On multimillion-dollar orders, the time between order acceptance and project completion may extend up to or exceed 12 months depending on the amount of custom work and a customer’s delivery needs. We often receive down payments or progress payments on these orders.
We had $3.9 million of retainage on long-term contracts included in receivables and contract assets as of November 2, 2019, which has an impact on our liquidity. We expect to collect these amounts within one year. When working capital is needed, we have historically financed our cash needs through a combination of cash flow from operations and borrowings under bank credit agreements.  During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019, we violated one of our bank covenants, but we received a waiver from our banking institution for the year ended April 27, 2019.
On November 15, 2019, we entered into an amendment to extend the maturity date of our credit agreement and a related revolving bank note from November 15, 2019 to November 15, 2022 and to modify certain other terms and financial covenants. The revolving amount of the agreement and note remains at $35.0 million, including up to $15.0 million for commercial and standby letters of credit. The credit agreement is unsecured and requires us to be in compliance with certain financial ratios and other covenants. As of November 2, 2019, there were no advances to us under the loan portion of the line of credit, and the balance of letters of credit outstanding was approximately $9.6 million. 
On November 15, 2016, we entered into an amended and restated loan agreement and a related revolving note and continuing and unconditional guaranty agreement with another bank which supported our credit needs outside of the United States. The revolving amount of the loan was $20.0 million, with a maturity date of November 15, 2019. As of November 2, 2019, there were no advances outstanding under the loan agreement. We did not renew this agreement. Therefore, the loan agreement and related revolving note and guaranty expired and terminated according to their terms on November 15, 2019, and we have no continuing obligations or liability under this loan agreement, revolving note, and guaranty.
We are sometimes required to obtain bank guarantees or other financial instruments for display installations and we have a global banking relationship to provide such instruments. If we are unable to meet the terms of the arrangement, our customer would draw on the banking arrangement, and the bank would subrogate its loss to Daktronics. As of November 2, 2019, we had $5.6 million of such instruments outstanding.
We are sometimes required to obtain performance bonds for display installations, and we have a bonding line available through a surety company for an aggregate of $150.0 million in bonded work outstanding. If we were unable to complete the work, and our customer would call upon the bond for payment, the surety company would subrogate its loss to Daktronics. At November 2, 2019, we had $8.4 million of bonded work outstanding against this line.
Our business growth and profitability improvement strategies depend on investments in capital expenditures and strategic investments. We are projecting capital expenditures to be less than $25 million for fiscal 2020 for purchases of manufacturing equipment for new or enhanced product production, expanded capacity, investments in quality and reliability equipment, and continued information infrastructure investments. We also evaluate and may invest in new technologies or acquire companies aligned with our business strategy. 
There has been no material change in our off-balance sheet arrangements and contractual obligations since the end of our 2019 fiscal year on April 27, 2019. For additional information, see our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 27, 2019.
Significant Accounting Policies and Estimates
New Accounting Pronouncements
