Through January 27, 2018, most of our net sales were denominated in U.S. dollars, and our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate changes on net sales had not been significant. For the nine months ended January 27, 2018, net sales originating outside the United States were 16.1 percent of total net sales, of which a portion was denominated in Canadian dollars, Euros, Chinese renminbi, British pounds, Australian dollars, Brazilian reais or other currencies. We manufacture our products in the United States, China, Belgium, and Ireland. Our results of operations could be affected by factors such as changes in foreign currency rates or weak economic conditions in foreign markets. If we believed currency risk in any foreign location is significant, we would utilize foreign exchange hedging contracts to manage our exposure to the currency fluctuations. 
We have foreign currency forward agreements in place to offset changes in the value of contracts with customers denominated in a foreign currency. The notional amount of these derivatives is $10.4 million, and all contracts mature within 19 months. These contracts are marked to market each balance sheet date and are not designated as hedges. See "Note 14. Derivative Financial Instruments" of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report for further details.
Our exposure to market rate risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our marketing obligations and long-term accounts receivable. As of January 27, 2018, our outstanding marketing obligations were $0.5 million, all of which were in fixed rate obligations. 
In connection with the sale of certain display systems, we have entered into various types of financing with customers. The aggregate amounts due from customers include an imputed interest element. The majority of these financings carry fixed rates of interest. As of January 27, 2018, our outstanding long-term receivables were $4.1 million. Each 25 basis point increase in interest rates would have an associated immaterial annual opportunity cost.
The following table provides maturities and weighted average interest rates on our financial instruments sensitive to changes in interest rates.
