We design, manufacture and sell a wide range of display systems to customers throughout the world. We focus our sales and marketing efforts on markets, geographical regions and products. Our five business segments consist of four domestic business units and the International business unit. The four domestic business units consist of Commercial, Live Events, High School Park and Recreation, and Transportation, all of which include the geographic territories of the United States and Canada. Disclosures related to our business segments are provided in "Note 4. Segment Disclosure" of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report. 
profitability, our backlog is not necessarily indicative of future net sales or net income. Backlog can fluctuate due to large order booking timing and seasonality. Backlog is not a measure defined by GAAP, and our methodology for determining backlog may vary from the methodology used by other companies in determining their backlog amounts.
Our mission is to be the world leader at informing and entertaining audiences through dynamic audio-visual communication systems. We measure our success through estimated market share based on estimated market demand for digital displays and generating profits over the long-term. Our success is contingent on the depth and quality of our products, including related control systems, the depth of our service offerings and our technology serving these market demands. These qualities are important for our long-term success because our products have finite lifetimes, and we strive to win replacement business from existing customers.
We organize around customer segments and geographic regions as further described in "Note 4. Segment Disclosure" of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report. Each business segment also has unique key growth drivers and challenges. 
•National accounts standard display market opportunities due to customers' desire to communicate their message, advertising and content consistently across the country. Increased demand is possible from retailers, quick serve restaurants, petroleum businesses, and other nationwide organizations. 
•Increasing interest in spectaculars, which include very large and sometimes highly customized displays as part of entertainment venues such as casinos, shopping centers, cruise ships and Times Square type locations.
•Dynamic messaging systems demand growth due to market adoption and marketplace expansion. 
•The use of architectural lighting products for commercial buildings, which real estate owners use to add accents or effects to an entire side or circumference of a building to communicate messages or to decorate the building.
•The continued deployment of digital billboards as Out-of-Home ("OOH") companies continue developing new sites and replacing digital billboards which are reaching end of life. This is dependent on there being no adverse changes in the digital billboard regulatory environment restricting future deployments of billboards, as well as maintaining our current market share of the business concentrated in a few large OOH companies.
•Lower product costs, driving an expansion of the marketplace.
•Our product and service offerings, which remain the most integrated and comprehensive offerings in the industry.
•The competitive nature of sports teams, which strive to out-perform their competitors with display systems.
•The desire for high-definition video displays, which typically drives larger displays or higher resolution displays, both of which increase the average transaction size.
•Increased demand for video systems in high schools as school districts realize the revenue generating potential of these displays versus traditional scoreboards.
•Increased demand for different types of displays and dynamic messaging systems, such as message centers at schools to communicate to students, parents and the broader community.
•The use of more sophisticated displays in school athletic facilities, such as large integrated video systems.
The decrease in orders for the three months ended January 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago was the net result of decreases in the billboard niche and decreases in the on-premise niche due to a number of factors, including competitive market pricing, a delay of national account-based opportunities, and the natural volatility of large project timing. 
Orders decreased for the three months ended January 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago due to variability in order timing. 
Orders decreased for the three months ended January 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago due to fewer video project orders which have larger average selling prices in this segment during the period.
Orders for the three months ended January 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago decreased primarily due to variability caused by large order timing. 
Orders increased for the three months ended January 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to the volatility of large order timing.
The product order backlog as of January 27, 2018 was $151 million as compared to $170 million as of January 28, 2017 and $155 million at the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2018. Historically, our backlog varies due to the seasonality of our business, the timing of large projects, and customer delivery schedules for these orders. The backlog as of January 27, 2018 decreased from January 28, 2017 in our Commercial, Live Events and Transportation business units, increased in our International business unit, and remained relatively flat in our High School Park and Recreation business unit.
Gross profit is net sales less cost of goods sold. Cost of goods sold consists primarily of inventory, consumables, salaries, other employee-related costs, facilities-related costs for manufacturing locations, machinery and equipment maintenance and depreciation, site sub-contractors, warranty costs, and other service delivery expenses.
General and administrative expenses in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 decreased as compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to decreases in personnel expenses. 
Product design and development expenses consist primarily of salaries, other employee-related costs, professional services, facilities costs and equipment-related costs and supplies. Product development investments in the near term are focused on developing or improving our video technology over a wide range of pixel pitches for both indoor and outdoor applications. These new or improved technologies are focused on varied pixel density for image quality and use, expanded product line offerings for our various markets and geographies, improved quality and reliability, and improved cost points. We plan to make continued investments in our software and controller capabilities throughout our various product offerings. Through all design efforts, we focus on standardizing display components and control systems for both single site and network displays. 
Product development expenses in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 increased as compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to increased labor costs and professional services assigned to product development projects relating to our strategy to accelerate the deployment of products and solutions to our markets. To deliver value to our customers and serve the markets' expectations, we plan to increase the level of expenditures for new or enhanced customer solutions for the remainder of fiscal 2018 as compared to prior years. 
Interest income, net in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared to the same period one year ago remained relatively flat. As a result of the volatility of working capital needs and changes in investing and financing activities, along with changes in the interest rate environment, it is difficult to project changes in interest income.
The decrease in orders for the nine months ended January 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago was the net result of decreases in the on-premise and spectacular niches due to a number of factors including competitive market pricing, a delay of national account-based opportunities during the nine months ended January 27, 2018 as compared to the same period last year, and the natural volatility of large project timing.
Orders increased for the nine months ended January 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago due to an increased number of projects in professional sport arenas.
Orders decreased for the nine months ended January 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago due to fewer large sports video projects awarded during the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2017.
Orders decreased for the nine months ended January 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to variability caused by large order timing. 
Orders increased for the nine months ended January 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to the volatility of large order timing. 
Gross profit is net sales less cost of goods sold. Cost of goods sold consists primarily of inventory, consumables, salaries, other employee-related costs, facilities-related costs for manufacturing locations, machinery and equipment maintenance and depreciation, site sub-contractors, warranty costs, and other service delivery expenses.
General and administrative expenses in the nine months ended January 27, 2018 increased as compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to increases in personnel expenses and information technology software and hardware expenses.
Product design and development expenses consist primarily of salaries, other employee-related costs, professional services, facilities costs and equipment-related costs and supplies. Product development investments in the near term are focused on developing or improving our video technology over a wide range of pixel pitches for both indoor and outdoor applications. These new or improved technologies are focused on varied pixel density for image quality and use, expanded product line offerings for our various markets and geographies, improved quality and reliability, and improved cost points. We plan to make continued investments in our software and controller capabilities throughout our various product offerings. Through all design efforts, we focus on standardizing display components and control systems for both single site and network displays. 
Product development expenses in the nine months ended January 27, 2018 as compared to the same period one year ago increased primarily due to increased labor costs and professional services assigned to product development projects relating to our strategy to accelerate the deployment of products and solutions to our markets. To deliver value to our customers and serve the markets' expectations, we plan to increase the level of expenditures for new or enhanced customer solutions for the remainder of fiscal 2018 as compared to prior years.
Interest income, net in the nine months ended January 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago decreased as a result of lower long-term receivables which bear imputed interest rates. As a result of the volatility of working capital needs and changes in investing and financing activities, along with changes in the interest rate environment, it is difficult to project changes in interest income.
Our effective tax rate was 47.2 percent for the nine months ended January 27, 2018 as compared to an effective tax rate of 31.9 percent for the nine months ended January 28, 2017. 
Working capital was $142.9 million and $127.1 million at January 27, 2018 and April 29, 2017, respectively. The changes in working capital, particularly changes in accounts receivable, accounts payable, inventory, and costs in excess of billings and billings in excess of costs, and the seasonality of the sports market can have a significant impact on the amount of net cash provided by operating activities largely due to the timing of payments and receipts. We have historically financed working capital needs through a combination of cash flow from operations and borrowings under bank credit agreements.
We have used and expect to continue to use cash balances to meet our short-term working capital requirements. On large product orders, the time between order acceptance and project completion may extend up to and exceed 24 months depending on the amount of custom work and a customer’s delivery needs. We often receive down payments or progress payments on these product orders. To the extent these payments are not sufficient to fund the costs and other expenses associated with these orders, we use working capital and bank borrowings to finance these cash requirements.
•A ratio of interest-bearing debt, excluding any marketing obligations, to EBITDA of less than 1 to 1 at the end of any fiscal quarter.
As of January 27, 2018, we were in compliance with all applicable bank loan covenants.
Although we expect to continue to pay dividends for the foreseeable future, the nature and amounts of dividends will be reviewed regularly and declared by the Board at its discretion.
We are sometimes required to obtain performance bonds for display installations, and we have a bonding line available through a surety company for an aggregate of $150.0 million in bonded work outstanding. If we were unable to complete the work and our customer would call upon the bond for payment, the surety company would subrogate its loss to Daktronics. At January 27, 2018, we had $8.3 million of bonded work outstanding against this line.
Our business growth and profitability improvement strategies depend on investments in capital expenditures. We are projecting capital expenditures to be less than $20 million for fiscal 2018 for purchases of manufacturing equipment for new or enhanced product production, expanded capacity, investments in quality and reliability equipment, and continued information infrastructure investments. 
During the nine months ended January 27, 2018, we did not repurchase any shares of our common stock.
