fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company included finance lease receivables of $12.8 and $14.4 in other assets as of June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, in the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
The Company recognizes revenue when it satisfies a performance obligation by transferring control over a product or service to a customer.
In certain contracts where services are provided prior to billing, the Company recognizes a contract asset within trade receivables and other current assets.
The Company includes a warranty in connection with certain contracts with customers, which are not considered to be separate performance obligations.
The Company provides its customers a manufacturer’s warranty and records, at the time of the sale, a corresponding estimated liability for potential warranty costs.
The Company also has extended warranty and service contracts available for its customers, which are recognized as separate performance obligations.
Revenue is recognized on these contracts ratably as the Company has a stand-ready obligation to provide services when or as needed by the customer.
The Company also provides a full array of cash management services, which optimizes the availability and cost of physical currency across the enterprise through efficient forecasting, inventory and replenishment processes.
The consideration (including any discounts) is allocated between distinct obligations in a bundle based on their stand-alone selling prices.
Revenue from professional services are recognized over time, because the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits of the Company’s performance as the services are performed or when the Company’s performance creates an asset with no alternative use to the Company and the Company has an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date.
Supplementing the POS system is a broad range of peripherals, including printers, scales and mobile scanners, as well as the cash management portfolio which offers a wide range of banknote and coin processing systems.
The consideration (including any discounts) is allocated between separate services or distinct obligations in a bundle based on their stand-alone selling prices.
The stand-alone selling prices are determined based on the prices at which the Company separately sells the products or services.
Revenue on service contracts is recognized ratably over time, generally using an input measure, as the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits of the Company’s performance as the services are performed.
Product revenue is recognized at the point in time that the customer obtains control of the product, which could be upon delivery or upon completion of installation services, depending on contract terms.
The amount of revenue recognized in 2018 from performance obligations satisfied (or partially satisfied) in previous periods, mainly due to the changes in the estimate of variable consideration and contract modifications was de minimis.
There have been $2.1 and $5.0 during the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $10.9 and $14.8 during the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, of impairment losses recognized as bad debt related to receivables or contract assets arising from the Company's contracts with customers.
As of January 1, 2018, the Company had $437.5 of unrecognized deferred revenue constituting the remaining performance obligations that are either unsatisfied (or partially unsatisfied).


item2.txt
The Company's approximately 23,000 employees service our customer's integrated solutions and design and deliver convenient, "always on" and highly secure solutions that bridge the physical and the digital worlds of transactions.
Leveraging a broad portfolio of solutions, the Company offers customers in these industries the flexibility to select the combination of services, software and systems that drive the most value to their business.
Branch and store automation helps financial institutions and retailers grow revenue, reduce costs, and increase convenience and security for their customers by migrating routine transactions, typically done inside the branch or store, to lower-cost automated channels.
The Company’s advisory services team collaborates with its clients to define the ideal customer experience, modify processes, refine existing staffing models and deploy technologies that meet business objectives.
The Company provides integrated solutions for financial institutions of all sizes - tailored to help drive operational efficiencies, grow revenue and manage risk.
The Company's advisory services team collaborates with its customers to help define optimal user experience, improve business processes, refine existing staffing models and deploy technology to automate both branches and stores.
In the retail business, the Company’s comprehensive portfolio of POS technology, software and retail automation solutions drives efficiencies by accelerating the checkout process and improving convenience for both retailers and consumers.
Excluding currency, net sales increased $5.7 from higher national account volume in North America and increased product related project activity in Latin America, specifically in Mexico and Ecuador.
Services and software gross margin was relatively flat in the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 1.0% lower in the six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the same periods of the prior year.


item3.txt
The Argentina operations represent less than one percent of the Company's total assets and total net sales as of and for the six months ended June 30, 2018.


item4.txt



part2.txt



