fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company reclassified an immaterial amount of $5.4 for the six months ended June 30, 2018 within the operating activities of the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows between depreciation and amortization and certain other assets and liabilities to correct its presentation.
The Company utilizes both operating and finance leases in its portfolio of leased assets, however, the majority of these leases are classified as operating.
•The Company elected to not separate non-lease components from lease components and, instead, to account for each separate lease component and the non-lease components associated with it as a single lease component, recognized on the balance sheet.
These payment amounts have been projected using the index or rate as of lease commencement or the transition date and measured in ROU assets and lease liabilities.
Other leases contain variable payments that are based on actual usage of the underlying assets and therefore are not measured in assets or liabilities as the variable payments are not based on an index or a rate.
ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at commencement date and initially measured based on the present value of lease payments over the defined lease term.
As most leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments.
For the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, there were no differences in the earnings (loss) per share amounts calculated under the two methods.
Total share-based compensation expense was $4.8 and $6.6 for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and was $14.1 and $20.3 for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The options expected to vest are the result of applying the pre-vesting forfeiture rate assumption to total outstanding non-vested options.
Performance shares are granted to employees and vest based on the achievement of certain performance objectives, as determined by the board of directors each year.
The Company's performance shares include performance objectives that are assessed after a three-year period as well as performance objectives that are assessed annually over a three-year period.
The effective tax rate on loss from continuing operations was (20.0) percent for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and (59.5) percent for the six months ended June 30, 2019. its Barbados structure to meet the covenant requirements under its credit agreement, which resulted in additional discrete tax expense, which was offset in part by the valuation allowance release relating to the Company’s nondeductible interest expense that was carried forward from December 31, 2018.
The effective tax rate on loss from continuing operations was 18.8 percent for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 5.1 percent for the six months ended June 30, 2018.
There were no realized gains from the sale of securities or proceeds from the sale of available-for-sale securities for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018.
The Company has deferred compensation plans that enable certain employees to defer receipt of a portion of their cash, 401(k) or share-based compensation and non-employee directors to defer receipt of director fees at the participants’ discretion.
For deferred cash-based compensation, the Company established rabbi trusts (refer to note 18), which are recorded at fair value of the underlying securities within securities and other investments.


item2.txt
•Benefited from solid growth in self-checkout (SCO) demand from a number of European customers, including a $7.0 contract with U.K.-based retailer, Co-Op, for more than 400 self-checkout terminals and related services The Company’s integrated solutions connect digital and physical channels conveniently, securely and efficiently for millions of consumers every day.
As an innovation partner for nearly all of the world's top 100 financial institutions and a majority of the top 25 global retailers, the Company delivers unparalleled services and technology that power the daily operations and consumer experience of banks and retailers around the world.
Leveraging a broad portfolio of solutions, the Company offers its clients the flexibility to purchase the combination of services, software and systems that drive the most value to their business.
Branch and store automation helps financial institutions and retailers grow revenue, reduce costs, and increase convenience and security for their customers by migrating routine transactions, typically done inside the branch or store, to lower-cost automated channels.
The Company’s advisory services team collaborates with its clients to define the ideal customer experience, modify processes, refine existing staffing models and deploy technologies that meet business objectives.
The Company provides integrated solutions for financial institutions of all sizes designed to help drive operational efficiencies, differentiate the consumer experience, grow revenue and manage risk.
The Company's DN Vynamic software is the first end-to-end Connected Commerce software portfolio in the banking marketplace designed to simplify and enhance the consumer experience.
The Company's advisory services team collaborates with customers to refine the end-user experience, improve business processes, refine existing staffing models and deploy technology to automate both branches and stores.
Both the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 were unfavorably impacted by higher restructuring charges of $2.9 and $2.4, respectively.
The six months ended June 30, 2019 were favorably impacted by lower non-routine charges of $2.0 primarily related to a recovery on a spare parts inventory provision in 2019 and higher integration costs in 2018.
Excluding restructuring and non-routine charges, services gross margin increased 5.4 percent and 2.8 percent, respectively, for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 as services margin increased in the Eurasia banking segment related to the favorable impact of the services modernization initiatives and favorable mix of higher margin installation activity driven by the Company's focus on more profitable business.


item3.txt



item4.txt
This quarterly report on Form 10-Q includes the certifications of the Company's Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) required by Rule 13a-14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act).


part2.txt



