fls.txt



item1.txt
During the third quarter of 2018, the Company identified an error in prior periods presented for repairable service parts inventory balances.
As a result of applying the correction retrospectively, previously reported service cost of sales for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 increased by $1.0 and $3.0, respectively, and previously reported net income and basic and diluted earnings per share decreased by $0.6 and $0.01 and $1.9 and $0.02, respectively.
The Company included finance lease receivables of $14.9 and $14.4 in other assets as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, in the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
The Company reclassified $8.0 from other current assets to restricted cash as of December 31, 2017 in the condensed consolidated balance sheets and was included in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash as of September 30, 2017 in the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows.
Revenue is measured based on consideration specified in a contract with a customer and excludes amounts collected on behalf of third parties.
The Company recognizes revenue when it satisfies a performance obligation by transferring control over a product or service to a customer.
In certain contracts where services are provided prior to billing, the Company recognizes a contract asset within trade receivables and other current assets.
The Company includes a warranty in connection with certain contracts with customers, which are not considered to be separate performance obligations.
The Company provides its customers a manufacturer’s warranty and records, at the time of the sale, a corresponding estimated liability for potential warranty costs.
The Company also has extended warranty and service contracts available for its customers, which are recognized as separate performance obligations.
Revenue is recognized on these contracts ratably as the Company has a stand-ready obligation to provide services when or as needed by the customer.
The Company also provides a full array of cash management services, which optimizes the availability and cost of physical currency across the enterprise through efficient forecasting, inventory and replenishment processes.
The Company’s advisory services team collaborates with its customers to help define optimal user experience, improve business processes, refine existing staffing models and deploy technology to meet branch and store automation objectives.
The Company considered ASC 606-10-32-34(c)(2), which provides the criteria that "the entity has not yet established a price for that good or service, and the good or service has not previously been sold on a standalone basis (that is, the selling price is uncertain)."
The Company concluded this fully integrated commercial solution is inseparable since its customers generally only benefit from the combined output, which includes both the intellectual property and the professional services.
The percentage of the Company's consolidated net sales recognized from integration and customization of software represented approximately one percent for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017.
Revenue from professional services are recognized over time, because the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits of the Company’s performance as the services are performed or when the Company’s performance creates an asset with no alternative use to the Company and the Company has an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date.
Supplementing the POS system is a broad range of peripherals, including printers, scales and mobile scanners, as well as the cash management portfolio which offers a wide range of banknote and coin processing systems.


item2.txt
•Won Windows 10 ATM product upgrade contracts with several North America financial institutions, including an agreement with a regional United States (U.S.) bank for more than 500 DN Vynamic software licenses and a new managed services agreement.
Leveraging a broad portfolio of solutions, the Company offers customers the flexibility to purchase the combination of services, software and systems that drive the most value to their business.
Branch and store automation helps financial institutions and retailers grow revenue, reduce costs, and increase convenience and security for their customers by migrating routine transactions, typically done inside the branch or store, to lower-cost automated channels.
The Company’s advisory services team collaborates with its clients to define the ideal customer experience, modify processes, refine existing staffing models and deploy technologies that meet business objectives.
The Company provides integrated solutions for financial institutions of all sizes - tailored to help drive operational efficiencies, differentiate the consumer experience, grow revenue and manage risk.
From a software perspective, the Company provides financial institutions with front-end applications for consumer connection points as well as back-end platforms that manage channel transactions, operations and integration.
These hardware-agnostic software applications facilitate millions of transactions via ATMs, kiosks, and other self-service devices, as well as via digital channels such as online and mobile.
The Company's advisory services team collaborates with its customers to help define optimal user experience, improve business processes, refine existing staffing models and deploy technology to automate both branches and stores.
Net sales decreased $3.7 or 0.3 percent including a net unfavorable currency impact of $26.1 primarily related to the euro and Brazil real.
Net sales in the three months ended September 30, 2017 were adversely impacted $9.7 related to deferred revenue purchase accounting adjustments (Deferred Revenue Adjustments).


item3.txt
The Argentina operations represent less than one percent of the Company's total assets and total net sales as of and for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.


item4.txt
This quarterly report on Form 10-Q includes the certifications of the Company's Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) required by Rule 13a-14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act).


part2.txt
For more information regarding legal proceedings, please refer to Part I, Item 3 of the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.


