fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company included finance lease receivables of $13.3 and $14.4 in other assets as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, in the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
The Company recognizes revenue when it satisfies a performance obligation by transferring control over a product or service to a customer.
The Company includes a warranty in connection with certain contracts with customers, which are not considered to be separate performance obligations.
The Company provides its customers a manufacturer’s warranty and records, at the time of the sale, a corresponding estimated liability for potential warranty costs.
The Company also has extended warranty and service contracts available for its customers, which are recognized as separate performance obligations.
Revenue is recognized on these contracts ratably as the Company has a stand-ready obligation to provide services when or as needed by the customer.
The Company also provides a full array of cash management services, which optimizes the availability and cost of physical currency across the enterprise through efficient forecasting, inventory and replenishment processes.
The consideration (including any discounts) is allocated between separate services in a bundle based on their stand-alone selling prices.
The stand-alone selling prices are determined based on the prices at which the Company separately sells the services.
Revenue on service contracts is recognized ratably over time, generally using an input measure, as the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits of the Company’s performance as the services are performed.
In some circumstances, when global service supply chain services are not included in a term contract and rather billed as they occur, revenue on these billed work services are recognized at a point in time as transfer of control occurs.
The Company applies the ‘as invoiced’ practical expedient related to performance obligations satisfied over time which permits the Company to recognize revenue in the amount to which it has a right to invoice the customer if that amount corresponds directly with the value to the customer of the Company’s performance completed to date.
The consideration (including any discounts) is allocated between distinct obligations in a bundle based on their stand-alone selling prices.
Revenue from professional services are recognized over time, because the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits of the Company’s performance as the services are performed.
In the case of more significant professional services agreements, when the Company’s performance creates an asset with no alternative use to the Company and the Company has an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, revenue is also recognized over time.
Generally revenue will be recognized using an input measure, typically cost incurred, in the more significant professional services agreements.
Supplementing the POS system is a broad range of peripherals, including printers, scales and mobile scanners, as well as the cash management portfolio which offers a wide range of banknote and coin processing systems.
For bundled packages, the Company accounts for individual system products separately if they are distinct - i.e. if a product or service is separately identifiable from other items in the bundled package and if a customer can benefit from it on its own or with other resources that are readily available to the customer.
The consideration (including any discounts) is allocated between distinct obligations in a bundle based on their stand-alone selling prices.


item2.txt
•Received strong banking activity in the U.S. for Windows 10 upgrades, with more than $50 million in orders •Partnered with U.S. Bank to showcase Essence, Diebold Nixdorf’s streamlined self-service touchpoint solution at ‘Super Bowl Live’ in Minneapolis The Company provides Connected Commerce solutions which enable millions of transactions each day.
The Company's approximately 23,000 employees service our customer's integrated solutions and design and deliver convenient, "always on" and highly secure solutions that bridge the physical and the digital worlds of transactions.
Customers of the Company include nearly all of the world's top 100 financial institutions and a majority of the top 25 global retailers.
Commensurate with its strategy, the Company is executing a multi-year integration and transformation program which aligns employee activities with the Company's goal of realizing $240 of cost reduction by the year 2020.
In May 2018, the Company announced its plans to build upon the achievements of its integration and transformation program while improving Company profitability and cash flow through relentless focus on our customers, operational excellence and forming a unified culture.
Managed services and outsourcing consists of managing the end-to-end business processes, technology integration and day-to-day operation of the self-service channel, bank branch and retail store networks.
The Company also provides a full array of cash management services, which optimizes the availability and cost of physical currency across the enterprise through efficient forecasting, inventory and replenishment processes.
The Company's advisory services team collaborates with its customers to help define optimal user experience, improve business processes, refine existing staffing models and deploy technology to automate both branches and stores.
Through collaboration with customers, engineering excellence and an efficient supply chain, the Company delivers industry-leading customer touchpoints to financial institutions, retailers and other customers.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



