fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company reclassified immaterial amounts of $1.9 and $5.9 from cost of sales to selling and administrative expense for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
The Company reclassified an immaterial amount of $8.1 for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 within the operating activities of the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows between depreciation and amortization and certain other assets and liabilities to correct its presentation.
The Company utilizes both operating and finance leases in its portfolio of leased assets, however, the majority of these leases are classified as operating.
•The Company elected to not separate non-lease components from lease components and, instead, to account for each separate lease component and the non-lease components associated with it as a single lease component, recognized on the balance sheet.
These payment amounts have been projected using the index or rate as of lease commencement or the transition date and measured in ROU assets and lease liabilities.
Other leases contain variable payments that are based on actual usage of the underlying assets and, therefore, are not measured in assets or liabilities as the variable payments are not based on an index or a rate.
For real estate leases, these payments are most often tied to non-committed maintenance or utilities charges, and for equipment leases, to actual output or hours in operation.
As of September 30, 2019, the Company did not have any material leases that have not yet commenced but that create significant rights and obligations.
ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at commencement date and initially measured based on the present value of lease payments over the defined lease term.
As most leases do not provide an implicit rate, the Company uses its incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments.
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, there were no differences in the earnings (loss) per share amounts calculated under the two methods.
Total share-based compensation expense was $5.3 and $6.9 for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and was $19.4 and $27.2 for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The options expected to vest are the result of applying the pre-vesting forfeiture rate assumption to total outstanding non-vested options.
Performance shares are granted to employees and vest based on the achievement of certain performance objectives, as determined by the board of directors each year.
The Company's performance shares include performance objectives that are assessed after a three-year period as well as performance objectives that are assessed annually over a three-year period.
The effective tax rate on the loss from continuing operations was (17.2) percent for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and (50.8) percent for the nine months ended September 30, 2019.
Company collapse of the Barbados structure to meet the covenant requirements under its credit agreement, which resulted in additional discrete tax expense of $48.4 inclusive of the offsetting valuation allowance release relating to the Company’s nondeductible interest expense that was carried forward from December 31, 2018.


item2.txt
As an innovation partner for nearly all of the world's top 100 financial institutions and a majority of the top 25 global retailers, the Company delivers unparalleled services and technology that power the daily operations and consumer experience of banks and retailers around the world.
Leveraging a broad portfolio of solutions, the Company offers its clients the flexibility to purchase the combination of services, software and systems that drive the most value to their business.
Branch and store automation helps financial institutions and retailers grow revenue, reduce costs, and increase convenience and security for their customers by migrating routine transactions, typically done inside the branch or store, to lower-cost automated channels.
The Company collaborates with its clients to define the ideal customer experience, modify processes, refine existing staffing models and deploy technologies that meet business objectives.
The Company provides integrated solutions for financial institutions of all sizes designed to help drive operational efficiencies, differentiate the consumer experience, grow revenue and manage risk.
The Company's DN Vynamic software is the first end-to-end Connected Commerce software portfolio in the banking marketplace designed to simplify and enhance the consumer experience.
The Company's advisory services team collaborates with customers to refine the end-user experience, improve business processes, refine existing staffing models and deploy technology to automate both branches and stores.
Both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 were favorably impacted by lower restructuring charges of $2.8 and $0.4, respectively, and lower non-routine charges of $0.8 and $2.4, respectively.
Excluding restructuring and non-routine charges, services gross margin increased 5.5 percent and 3.6 percent for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, as services margin increased in the Eurasia banking segment related to the favorable impact of the services modernization initiatives and favorable mix of higher margin installation activity.
Both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 were favorably impacted by lower restructuring charges of $3.8 and $3.9, respectively.


item3.txt



item4.txt
This quarterly report on Form 10-Q includes the certifications of the Company's Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) required by Rule 13a-14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act).


part2.txt



