Item 1. Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited)  



NETAPP, INC.  



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS  









See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.  





NETAPP, INC.  



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS  









See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.  





NETAPP, INC.  



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) 









See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 





NETAPP, INC. 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 









See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 





NETAPP, INC.  



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  





1. Description of Business and Significant Accounting Policies  



NetApp, Inc. (we, us, or the Company) provides global organizations the ability to manage and share their data across on-premises, private and public clouds. Together with our partners, we provide a full range of enterprise-class software, systems and services solutions that customers use to modernize their infrastructures, build next generation data centers and harness the power of hybrid clouds. 



Basis of Presentation and Preparation  



Our fiscal year is reported on a 52- or 53-week year ending on the last Friday in April. An additional week is included in the first fiscal quarter approximately every six years to realign fiscal months with calendar months. Fiscal years 2018 and 2017, ending on April 27, 2018, and April 28, 2017, respectively, are each 52-week years, with 13 weeks in each of their quarters.  



The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared by the Company, and reflect all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, that are, in the opinion of management, necessary for the fair presentation of our financial position, results of operations, comprehensive income and cash flows for the interim periods presented. The statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) for interim financial information. Accordingly, these statements do not include all information and footnotes required by GAAP for annual consolidated financial statements, and should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements as of and for the fiscal year ended April 28, 2017 contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. The results of operations for the three and nine months ended January 26, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the operating results to be expected for the full fiscal year or future operating periods.  



The preparation of the condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. Such estimates include, but are not limited to, revenue recognition, reserves and allowances; inventory valuation and purchase order accruals; valuation of goodwill and intangibles; restructuring reserves; product warranties; employee compensation and benefit accruals; stock-based compensation; loss contingencies; valuation of investment securities; income taxes and fair value measurements. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. 



There have been no significant changes in our significant accounting policies as of and for the nine months ended January 26, 2018, as compared to the significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 28, 2017. 



2. Recent Accounting Standards Not Yet Effective 



Revenue from Contracts with Customers 



In May 2014, the FASB issued an accounting standards update related to the recognition and reporting of revenue that establishes a comprehensive new revenue recognition model designed to depict the transfer of goods or services to a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration the entity expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. The guidance allows for the use of either the full or modified retrospective transition method. We will adopt this new standard, as amended, on its effective date in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. 



Preliminarily, we plan to adopt the standard using the full retrospective method to restate each prior reporting period presented. Our ability to adopt this standard using the full retrospective method is dependent upon system readiness, for both revenue and commissions, and the completion of the analysis of information necessary to restate prior period financial statements and disclosures. We are continuing to assess the impact of this standard on our financial position, results of operations and related disclosures and have not yet determined whether the effect will be material. We do not expect that the adoption of this standard will have a material impact on our operating cash flows. Additionally, as we continue to assess the new standard along with industry trends and additional interpretive guidance, we may adjust our implementation plan accordingly. 





•  



in arrangements containing software, revenue deferred for the undelivered elements will be based on a relative fair value allocation, generally resulting in more software arrangement revenue being recognized earlier; 





•  



removal of the current limitation on contingent revenue for multiple element arrangements, such as that related to the delivery of additional items or meeting other specified performance conditions, may result in revenue being recognized earlier; 



•  



estimation of variable consideration for arrangements with contract terms such as rights of return, potential penalties and acceptance clauses; 



•  



required disclosures, including information about the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations and expected timing of revenue recognition; and 



•  



accounting for deferred commissions, including costs that qualify for deferral and the amortization period. 



We do not expect that the new standard will result in substantive changes in our deliverables or the amounts of revenue allocated between multiple deliverables, with the exception of the items discussed above. 



Leases 



In February 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update on financial reporting for leasing arrangements, including requiring lessees to recognize an operating lease with a term greater than one year on their balance sheets as a right-of-use asset and corresponding lease liability, measured at the present value of the lease payments. This new standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2020, although early adoption is permitted. Upon adoption, lessees must apply a modified retrospective transition approach for leases existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements. We are currently in the assessment phase to determine the adoption methodology and are evaluating the impact of this new standard on our consolidated financial statements and disclosures. We expect that most of our operating lease commitments will be subject to the new standard and recognized as lease liabilities and right-of-use assets upon adoption, which will increase the total assets and total liabilities we report.  



Credit Losses on Financial Instruments 



In June 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update on the measurement of credit losses on financial instruments. The standard introduces a new model for measuring and recognizing credit losses on financial instruments, requiring financial assets measured at amortized cost basis to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected. It also requires that credit losses be recorded through an allowance for credit losses. This new standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2021, although early adoption is permitted. Upon adoption, companies must apply a modified retrospective transition approach through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings, though a prospective transition approach is required for debt securities for which an other-than-temporary impairment had been recognized before the effective date. Based on the composition of our investment portfolio, current market conditions, and historical credit loss activity, the adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 



Income Taxes on Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets 



In October 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update that requires entities to recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory when the transfer occurs. This amends current GAAP which prohibits recognition of current and deferred income taxes for all types of intra-entity asset transfers until the asset has been sold to an outside party. This new standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2019, although early adoption is permitted. Upon adoption, companies must apply a modified retrospective transition approach through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption. We are currently evaluating the impact of this new standard on our consolidated financial statements. 



Derecognition of Non-Financial Assets 



In February 2017, the FASB issued an accounting standards update that amends guidance on how entities account for the derecognition of a nonfinancial asset or an in substance nonfinancial asset that is not a business. The guidance allows for the use of either the full or modified retrospective transition method. This new standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2019, although early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of this new standard on our consolidated financial statements. 



Although there are several other new accounting pronouncements issued or proposed by the FASB that we have adopted or will adopt, as applicable, we do not believe any of these accounting pronouncements has had or will have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, operating results or disclosures. 





3. Statements of Cash Flows Additional Information 









On August 4, 2017, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Greenqloud ehf., a privately-held provider of cloud management software based in Iceland, for $51 million in cash, of which we preliminarily allocated $10 million to developed technology, $38 million to goodwill, and the remainder to other assets. 



On June 15, 2017, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Plexistor Ltd., a privately-held provider of software defined memory architecture based in Israel, for $24 million in cash, of which we allocated $6 million to developed technology, $17 million to goodwill, and the remainder to other assets. 



5. Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets, Net  





















6. Balance Sheet Details  















As of April 28, 2017, we had classified certain land and buildings located in Sunnyvale, California, previously reported as property and equipment as assets held-for-sale and included their book value of $118 million in other current assets in the condensed consolidated balance sheets. On September 8, 2017, we entered into an agreement to sell these properties for a total of $306 million, through two separate and independent closings. On December 7, 2017, the first closing occurred and we consummated the sale of properties with a net book value of $66 million for cash proceeds of $210 million, resulting in a gain, net of direct selling costs, of $142 million.  



The remaining properties, consisting of land with a net book value of $52 million, continue to be classified as assets held-for-sale as of January 26, 2018. We will consummate the sale of these properties, and receive cash proceeds of $96 million, upon the occurrence of the second closing, which is expected to occur within the next 12 months. That closing is subject to due diligence, certain termination rights and customary closing conditions, including local governmental approval of the subdivision of a land parcel.  





















Warranty expense accrued during the period includes amounts accrued for systems at the time of shipment, adjustments for changes in estimated costs for warranties on systems shipped in the period and changes in estimated costs for warranties on systems shipped in prior periods. 













Deferred product revenue represents unrecognized revenue related to undelivered product commitments and other product deliveries that have not met all revenue recognition criteria. Deferred services revenue represents customer payments made in advance for services, which include software and hardware maintenance contracts and other services. Financed unearned services revenue represents undelivered services for which cash has been received under certain third-party financing arrangements. See Note 16 for additional information related to these arrangements.  



7. Other income (expense), net 







8. Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measurements  











We consider an active market to be one in which transactions for the asset or liability occur with sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis, and consider an inactive market to be one in which there are infrequent or few transactions for the asset or liability, the prices are not current, or price quotations vary substantially either over time or among market makers. Where appropriate, our own or the counterparty’s non-performance risk is considered in measuring the fair values of liabilities and assets, respectively.  





Investments  







As of January 26, 2018 and April 28, 2017, gross unrealized losses related to individual securities were not significant. 







Actual maturities may differ from the contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay certain obligations.  



Fair Value of Financial Instruments  









Reported as other current assets in the condensed consolidated balance sheets 





Reported as other non-current assets in the condensed consolidated balance sheets 





Reported as accrued expenses in the condensed consolidated balance sheets 



Our Level 2 debt instruments are held by a custodian who prices some of the investments using standard inputs in various asset price models or obtains investment prices from third-party pricing providers that incorporate standard inputs in various asset price models. These pricing providers utilize the most recent observable market information in pricing these securities or, if specific prices are not available for these securities, use other observable inputs like market transactions involving identical or comparable securities. We review Level 2 inputs and fair value for reasonableness and the values may be further validated by comparison to multiple independent pricing sources. In addition, we review third-party pricing provider models, key inputs and assumptions and understand the pricing processes at our third-party providers in determining the overall reasonableness of the fair value of our Level 2 debt  





instruments. As of January 26, 2018 and April 28, 2017, we have not made any adjustments to the prices obtained from our third-party pricing providers.  



Fair Value of Debt  



As of January 26, 2018 and April 28, 2017, the fair value of our long-term debt was approximately $1,551 million and $1,520 million, respectively. The fair value of our long-term debt was based on observable market prices in a less active market. The fair value of our commercial paper notes approximated their carrying value. All of our debt obligations are categorized as Level 2 instruments.  





Long-Term Debt  











Senior Notes  



In September 2017, we issued $400 million aggregate principal amount of 2.00% Senior Notes due on September 27, 2019 and $400 million aggregate principal amount of 3.30% Senior Notes due on September 29, 2024, for which we received total proceeds of approximately $795 million, net of discount and issuance costs. On November 3, 2017, we extinguished our 2.00% Senior Notes due December 2017 for an aggregate redemption price of $751 million, plus accrued and unpaid interest.  



Interest on our Senior Notes issued in September 2017 is payable semi-annually in March and September. Our 3.375% Senior Notes and 3.25% Senior Notes, with principal amounts of $500 million and $250 million, respectively, were issued in June 2014 and December 2012, respectively. Interest on these Senior Notes is paid semi-annually in June and December. Our Senior Notes, which are unsecured, unsubordinated obligations, rank equally in right of payment with any existing and future senior unsecured indebtedness. 



We may redeem the Senior Notes in whole or in part, at any time at our option at specified redemption prices. In addition, upon the occurrence of certain change of control triggering events, we may be required to repurchase the Senior Notes under specified terms. The Senior Notes also include covenants that limit our ability to incur debt secured by liens on assets or on shares of stock or indebtedness of our subsidiaries; to engage in certain sale and lease-back transactions; and to consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets. As of January 26, 2018, we were in compliance with all covenants associated with the Senior Notes. 









Commercial Paper Program and Credit Facility 



We have a commercial paper program (the Program), under which we may issue unsecured commercial paper notes. Amounts available under the Program, as amended on July 17, 2017, may be borrowed, repaid and re-borrowed, with the aggregate face or principal amount of the notes outstanding under the Program at any time not to exceed $1.0 billion. The maturities of the notes can vary, but may not exceed 397 days from the date of issue. The notes are sold under customary terms in the commercial paper market and may be issued at a discount from par or, alternatively, may be sold at par and bear interest at rates dictated by market conditions at the time of their issuance. The proceeds from the issuance of the notes are used for general corporate purposes. As of January 26, 2018, we had commercial paper notes outstanding with an aggregate principal amount of $632 million, a weighted-average interest rate of 1.81% and maturities ranging from 17 days to 46 days. As of April 28, 2017, we had commercial paper notes outstanding with an aggregate principal amount of $500 million, a weighted-average interest rate of 1.26% and maturities ranging from 7 days to 38 days. 



In connection with the Program, we have a senior unsecured credit agreement with a syndicated group of lenders that expires on December 10, 2021. The credit agreement, as amended on July 17, 2017, provides a $1.0 billion revolving unsecured credit facility, with a $50 million letter of credit sub-facility, that serves as a back-up for the Program. Proceeds from the facility may also be used for general corporate purposes to the extent that the credit facility exceeds the outstanding debt issued under the Program. The credit agreement includes options that allow us to request an increase in the facility of up to an additional $300 million and to extend its maturity date for two additional one-year periods, both subject to certain conditions. As of January 26, 2018 we were in compliance with all associated covenants in this agreement. No amounts were drawn against this facility during any of the periods presented. 



Sale-leaseback Transactions 



In fiscal 2016, we entered into a sale-leaseback arrangement of certain of our land and buildings, under which we leased back certain of our properties rent free over lease terms ending at various dates through December 31, 2017. These properties did not qualify for sale-leaseback accounting and as a result they were accounted for as financing transactions. In December 2017, we terminated the leases and recorded a non-cash sale of properties with a net book value of $54 million, the extinguishment of $130 million in financing obligations, and a gain of $76 million. As of January 26, 2018, there are no balances remaining on our condensed consolidated balance sheets associated with this sale-leaseback arrangement.  





Equity Incentive Awards 



As of January 26, 2018, we have certain equity incentive awards (awards) outstanding, which include stock options, restricted stock units (RSUs), including time-based RSUs and performance-based RSUs (PBRSUs), and Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) awards. 



Stock Options  







The aggregate intrinsic value represents the pre-tax difference between the exercise price of stock options and the quoted market price of our stock on that day for all in-the-money options.  









Restricted Stock Units  



In the nine months ended January 26, 2018, we granted PBRSUs to certain of our executives. Each PBRSU has performance-based vesting criteria such that the PBRSU cliff-vests at the end of either an approximate two year or three year performance period, which began on the date specified in the grant agreement and ends the last day of the second or third fiscal year, respectively, following the grant date. The number of shares of common stock that will be issued to settle the PBRSUs at the end of the applicable performance and service period will range from 0% to 200% of a target number of shares originally granted, and will depend upon our Total Stockholder Return (TSR) as compared to an index TSR (each expressed as a growth rate percentage) calculated as of the applicable period end date. The fair values of the PBRSUs were fixed at grant date using a Monte Carlo simulation model and the related aggregate compensation cost of $20 million is being recognized over the shorter of the remaining applicable performance or service periods. 











Employee Stock Purchase Plan  







Stock-Based Compensation Expense  







As of January 26, 2018, total unrecognized compensation expense related to our equity awards was $239 million, which is expected to be recognized on a straight-line basis over a weighted-average remaining service period of 2.2 years.  





Stock Repurchase Program  



Our Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of up to $9.6 billion of our common stock. Under this program, which we may suspend or discontinue at any time, we may purchase shares of our outstanding common stock through open market and privately negotiated transactions at prices deemed appropriate by our management.  







The aggregate purchase price of our stock repurchases for the nine months ended January 26, 2018 consisted of $450 million of open market purchases, of which $224 million and $226 million were allocated to additional paid-in capital and retained earnings, respectively. 



Since the May 13, 2003 inception of our stock repurchase program through January 26, 2018, we repurchased a total of 279 million shares of our common stock at an average price of $33.31 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of $9.3 billion. 



Dividends 







On February 14, 2018, we declared a cash dividend of $0.20 per share of common stock, payable on April 25, 2018 to holders of record as of the close of business on April 6, 2018. The timing and amount of future dividends will depend on market conditions, corporate business and financial considerations and regulatory requirements. All dividends declared have been determined by us to be legally authorized under the laws of the state in which we are incorporated. 



Retained Earnings (Accumulated Deficit) 







Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) 













11. Derivatives and Hedging Activities 



We use derivative instruments to manage exposures to foreign currency risk. Our primary objective in holding derivatives is to reduce the volatility of earnings and cash flows associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The maximum length of time over which forecasted foreign currency denominated revenues are hedged is six months. The program is not designated for trading or speculative purposes. Our derivatives expose us to credit risk to the extent that the counterparties may be unable to meet the terms of our agreements with them. We seek to mitigate such risk by limiting our counterparties to major financial institutions. In addition, the potential risk of loss with any one counterparty resulting from this type of credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis. We also have in place master netting arrangements to mitigate the credit risk of our counterparties and to potentially reduce our losses due to counterparty nonperformance. We present our derivative instruments as net amounts in our condensed consolidated balance sheets. The gross and net fair value amounts of such instruments were not material as of January 26, 2018 or April 28, 2017. We did not recognize any gains or losses in earnings due to hedge ineffectiveness for any period presented. All contracts have a maturity of less than six months.  







As of January 26, 2018 and April 28, 2017, there were no instruments designated as cash flow hedges outstanding. 



The effect of cash flow hedges recognized in net revenues is presented in the condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive income (loss) and in Note 10 – Stockholders’ Equity. 









Management has previously approved several restructuring actions to streamline our business, eliminate costs and redirect resources to our highest return activities, including the March 2016 Plan and the November 2016 Plan, under which we reduced our global workforce by approximately 11%, and 6%, respectively. We completed all workforce related activities under these plans as of the end of fiscal 2017. Charges related to our restructuring plans consisted primarily of employee severance-related costs. The remaining balance as of January 26, 2018 principally relates to lease obligations that will be paid over their remaining terms. 















Our effective tax rates reflect the impact of a significant amount of our earnings, primarily income from our European operations which are headquartered in the Netherlands, being taxed in foreign jurisdictions at rates below the United States (U.S.) statutory tax rate. The differences in effective tax rates for the nine months ended January 26, 2018 and January 27, 2017 were primarily related to the impacts of recent U.S. tax reform and the sale of certain buildings and land in Sunnyvale, California. 



On December 22, 2017, the 2017 Tax Reform Reconciliation Act, originally referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“TCJA”) was enacted into law and is effective for the third quarter of our fiscal 2018. The TCJA made significant changes to the U.S. corporate income tax system including a reduction of the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate, the imposition of a one-time transition tax on deferred foreign earnings, and a shift to a modified territorial tax regime. ASC 740, Income Taxes, requires that the impact on income taxes due to a change in legislation be recognized in the period of enactment. Given the timing and pace of regulatory guidance, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) issued Staff Accounting Bulletin 118, which allows for the recording of provisional amounts related to U.S. tax reform and subsequent related adjustments during a measurement period.  





The TJCA decreased the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% as of January 1, 2018. For fiscal 2018, this decrease results in a blended statutory tax rate of 30.5%. As a result of the tax rate change, we remeasured our deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the rates at which they are expected to reverse in the future periods and recorded a $117 million discrete tax expense for the quarter. The final remeasurement impact could vary from the provisional amount if actual future activities impacting deferred tax balances differ from our estimates.  





Under the TCJA, the GMT provision taxes foreign income in excess of a deemed return on tangible assets of foreign corporations. Under U.S. GAAP, companies are allowed to make an accounting policy election to either (i) account for GMT as a component of tax expense in the period in which a company is subject to the rules (the “period cost method”), or (ii) account for GMT in a company’s measurement of deferred taxes (the “deferred method”). Because of the complexity of the new tax rules, we are continuing to evaluate this provision and the application of ASC 740 and have not yet made an accounting policy election.  





As a part of the provisional estimates recorded during the quarter, we considered the impacts of the TCJA and reviewed our projected global cash requirements, and have determined that certain historical and future foreign earnings will no longer be indefinitely reinvested.  



During the quarter ended January 26, 2018, we also recorded a $72 million discrete tax expense related to the sale of certain buildings and land in Sunnyvale, California. The expense partially relates to gains triggered by the termination of a fiscal 2016 sale-leaseback arrangement. The remainder of the expense relates to the sale of buildings and land in the current quarter.  



As of January 26, 2018, we had $338 million of gross unrecognized tax benefits, and $303 million has been recorded in other long-term liabilities inclusive of penalties, interest and indirect benefits. Unrecognized tax benefits of $284 million, including penalties, interest and indirect benefits, would affect our provision for income taxes if recognized. As result of the U.S. tax reform, we recorded $113 million of gross unrecognized tax benefits. 



We are currently undergoing federal income tax audits in the U.S. and several foreign tax jurisdictions. Transfer pricing calculations are key issues under audits in various jurisdictions, and are often subject to dispute and appeals. The IRS has concluded the examination of our tax returns for our fiscal years through 2010. The IRS commenced the examination of our federal income tax returns for our fiscal years 2012 and 2013 in August 2016. 



On September 17, 2010, the Danish Tax Authorities issued a decision concluding that distributions declared in 2005 and 2006 from our Danish subsidiary were subject to Danish at-source dividend withholding tax. We do not believe that our Danish subsidiary is liable for withholding tax and filed an appeal with the Danish Tax Tribunal to that effect. On December 19, 2011, the Danish Tax Tribunal issued a ruling that our Danish subsidiary was not liable for Danish withholding tax. The Danish tax examination agency appealed to the Danish High Court in March 2012. In February 2016, the Danish High Court referred the case to the Court of Justice of the European Union where it was heard before the court in October 2017. We expect the court to issue their opinion and judgment by the end of fiscal 2018. 



We continue to monitor the progress of ongoing discussions with tax authorities and the impact, if any, of the expected expiration of the statute of limitations in various taxing jurisdictions. 



14. Net Income (Loss) per Share  







Potential shares from outstanding employee equity awards totaling 15 million and 4 million for the three months ended January 26, 2018 and January 27, 2017, respectively, and 17 million and 8 million for the nine months ended January 26, 2018 and January 27, 2017, respectively, were excluded from the diluted net income (loss) per share calculations as their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive. 



15. Segment, Geographic, and Significant Customer Information  











Americas revenues consist of sales to Americas commercial and U.S. public sector markets. Sales to customers inside the U.S. were $739 million and $684 million during the three months ended January 26, 2018 and January 27, 2017, respectively, and were $2,115 million and $2,047 million during the nine months ended January 26, 2018 and January 27, 2017, respectively. 



















16. Commitments and Contingencies  



Operating Leases  



We lease various equipment, vehicles and office space in the U.S. and internationally. Future annual minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating leases with an initial term in excess of one year totaled $198 million as of January 26, 2018. 





Purchase Orders and Other Commitments  



In the ordinary course of business, we make commitments to third-party contract manufacturers to manage manufacturer lead times and meet product forecasts, and to other parties to purchase various key components used in the manufacturing of our products. A significant portion of our reported purchase commitments arising from these agreements consists of firm, non-cancelable, and unconditional commitments. As of January 26, 2018, we had $387 million in non-cancelable purchase commitments for inventory. We record a liability for firm, non-cancelable and unconditional purchase commitments for quantities in excess of our future demand forecasts consistent with the valuation of our excess and obsolete inventory. As of January 26, 2018 and April 28, 2017, such liability amounted to $11 million and $10 million, respectively, and is included in accrued expenses in our condensed consolidated balance sheets. To the extent that such forecasts are not achieved, our commitments and associated accruals may change. 



In addition to inventory commitments with contract manufacturers and component suppliers, we have open purchase orders and contractual obligations associated with our ordinary course of business for which we have not yet received goods or services. As of January 26, 2018, we had $15 million in construction related obligations and $222 million in other purchase obligations. 



Financing Guarantees  



While most of our arrangements for sales include short-term payment terms, from time to time we provide long-term financing to creditworthy customers. We have generally sold receivables financed through these arrangements on a non-recourse basis to third party financing institutions within 10 days of the contracts’ dates of execution, and we classify the proceeds from these sales as cash flows from operating activities in our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows. We account for the sales of these receivables as “true sales” as defined in the accounting standards on transfers of financial assets, as we are considered to have surrendered control of these financing receivables. Provided all other revenue recognition criteria have been met, we recognize product revenues for these arrangements, net of any payment discounts from financing transactions, upon product acceptance. We sold $62 million and $142 million of receivables during the nine months ended January 26, 2018 and January 27, 2017, respectively.  



In addition, we enter into arrangements with leasing companies for the sale of our hardware systems products. These leasing companies, in turn, lease our products to end-users. The leasing companies generally have no recourse to us in the event of default by the end-user and we recognize revenue upon delivery to the end-user customer, if all other revenue recognition criteria have been met.  



Some of the leasing arrangements described above have been financed on a recourse basis through third-party financing institutions. Under the terms of recourse leases, which are generally three years or less, we remain liable for the aggregate unpaid remaining lease payments to the third-party leasing companies in the event of end-user customer default. These arrangements are generally collateralized by a security interest in the underlying assets. Where we provide a guarantee for recourse leases, we defer revenues subject to the industry-specific software revenue recognition guidance and recognize revenues for non-software deliverables in accordance with our multiple deliverable revenue arrangement policy. In connection with certain recourse financing arrangements, we receive advance payments associated with undelivered elements that are subject to customer refund rights. We defer revenue associated with these advance payments until the related refund rights expire and we perform the services. As of January 26, 2018 and April 28, 2017, the aggregate amount by which such contingencies exceeded the associated liabilities was not significant. To date, we have not experienced significant losses under our lease financing programs or other financing arrangements. 



We have entered into service contracts with certain of our end-user customers that are supported by third-party financing arrangements. If a service contract is terminated as a result of our non-performance under the contract or our failure to comply with the terms of the financing arrangement, we could, under certain circumstances, be required to acquire certain assets related to the service contract or to pay the aggregate unpaid financing payments under such arrangements. As of January 26, 2018, we have not been required to make any payments under these arrangements, and we believe the likelihood of having to acquire a material amount of assets or make payments under these arrangements is remote. The portion of the financial arrangement that represents unearned services revenue is included in deferred revenue and financed unearned services revenue in our condensed consolidated balance sheets. 



Legal Contingencies  



When a loss is considered probable and reasonably estimable, we record a liability in the amount of our best estimate for the ultimate loss. However, the likelihood of a loss with respect to a particular contingency is often difficult to predict, and determining a meaningful estimate of the loss or a range of loss may not be practicable based on the information available and the potential effect of future events and decisions by third parties that will determine the ultimate resolution of the contingency. 







 Although management at present believes that the ultimate outcome of these proceedings, individually and in the aggregate, will not materially harm our financial position, results of operations, cash flows, or overall trends, legal proceedings are subject to inherent uncertainties, and unfavorable rulings or other events could occur. Unfavorable resolutions could include significant monetary damages. In addition, in matters for which injunctive relief or other conduct remedies are sought, unfavorable resolutions could include an injunction or other order prohibiting us from selling one or more products at all or in particular ways or requiring other remedies. An unfavorable outcome may result in a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial position, and overall trends. No material accrual has been recorded as of January 26, 2018 related to such matters. 





Item 1. Legal Proceedings.  



For a discussion of legal proceedings, see Note 16 – Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.  



Item 1A. Risk Factors. 



The following descriptions of risk factors includes any material changes to, and supersedes the description of risk factors associated with, the Company’s business previously disclosed in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended April 28, 2017 filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) (the “2017 Form 10-K”) under the heading “Risk Factors.” Our business, financial condition and operating results can be affected by a number of factors, whether currently known or unknown, including but not limited to those described below, any one or more of which could, directly or indirectly cause our actual results of operations and financial condition to vary materially from the past, or from anticipated future, results of operations and financial condition. Any of these factors, in whole or in part, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and common stock price.  



The following discussion of risk factors contains forward-looking statements. These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this Form 10-Q or elsewhere. The following information should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes in Part I, Item 1 – Financial Statements and Part I, Item 2 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10-Q.  



The following discussion reflects our current judgment regarding the most significant risks we face. These risks can and will change in the future.  



Our business may be harmed by trends in the networked storage hardware market or if we are unable to keep pace with rapid industry, technological and market changes. 





If we are unable to develop, introduce and gain market acceptance for new products while managing the transition from older products, or if we cannot provide the expected level of quality, service and support for our new products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. 



Our future growth depends upon the successful development and introduction of new hardware and software products and related services. Due to the complexity of storage software, subsystems and appliances and the difficulty in gauging the engineering effort required to produce new products, such products are subject to significant technical and quality control risks. 



If we are unable, for technological, customer reluctance or other reasons, to develop, introduce and gain market acceptance for new products, as and when required by the market and our customers, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. 







older product inventories and related components and ensure that enough supplies of new products can be delivered to meet customers’ demands. Further risks inherent in new product and solutions introductions include the uncertainty of price-performance relative to products of competitors, competitors’ responses to the introductions, delays in sales caused by the desire of customers to evaluate new products for extended periods of time and our partners’ investment in selling our new products and solutions. If these risks are not managed effectively, we could experience material risks to our operations, financial condition and business model. 



As we enter new or emerging markets, we will likely increase demands on our service and support operations and may be exposed to additional competition. We may not be able to provide products, service and support to effectively compete for these market opportunities. 



Our new consumption based business models may adversely affect our revenues and profitability. 



We offer customers a full range of consumption models, including the deployment of our software through our subscription and cloud-based SaaS, and utility pricing and managed services offerings for our hardware and software systems. These business models continue to evolve, and we may not be able to compete effectively, generate significant revenues or maintain the profitability of our consumption based offerings. Additionally, the increasing prevalence of cloud and SaaS delivery models offered by us and our competitors may unfavorably impact the pricing of our on-premise hardware and software offerings and could have a dampening impact on overall demand for our on-premise hardware and software product and service offerings, which could reduce our revenues and profitability, at least in the near term. If we do not successfully execute our consumption model strategy or anticipate the needs of our customers, our revenues and profitability could decline. 



As customer demand for our consumption model offerings increases, we could experience volatility in our reported revenues and operating results due to the differences in timing of revenue recognition between our hardware arrangements and software licenses, (that are generally recognized in full at the time of delivery), relative to our consumption model offering arrangements, (that are generally recognized ratably over the terms of the arrangement). We incur certain expenses associated with the infrastructure and marketing of our consumption model offerings in advance of our ability to recognize the revenues associated with these offerings. 



Our sales and distribution structure makes forecasting revenues difficult and, if disrupted, could harm our operating results. 





Increasing competition and industry consolidation could harm our business and operating results. 



The storage and data management markets are intensely competitive and are characterized by rapidly changing technology and fragmentation. We compete with many companies in the markets we serve, including established public companies, newly public companies with a strong flash focus, and new market entrants addressing the growing opportunity for hyper-converged systems. Some offer a broad spectrum of IT products and services (full-stack vendors) and others offer a more limited set of storage and data management products or services. Technology trends, such as the emergence of hosted or public cloud storage, SaaS and flash storage are driving significant changes in storage architectures and solution requirements. Cloud service providers provide customers storage as an operating expense, rather than as a capital expenditure, for the customers’ data centers, which meets rapidly evolving business needs and has changed the competitive landscape.  



Competitors may develop new technologies or products in advance of us or establish business models or technologies disruptive to us. By extending our flash, converged infrastructure and cloud storage offerings, we are competing in new segments with both traditional competitors and new competitors, particularly smaller emerging storage vendors. The longer-term potential and competitiveness of these emerging vendors remains to be determined. In cloud and converged infrastructure, we also compete with large well-established competitors. 



For additional information regarding our competitors, see the section entitled “Competition” contained in Item 1 – Business of Part I of our fiscal 2017 Form 10-K. It is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors might emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share or buying power. An increase in industry consolidation might result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as full stack vendors for customers and achieve increased economies of scale in the supply chain. For example, in October 2016, Dell Inc. and EMC Corp. consummated their agreement to merge. Also in April 2017, HP Enterprise completed their  





acquisition of Nimble Storage. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or might establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties, including some of our partners or suppliers. 



Continuing uncertain economic and political conditions restrict our visibility and may harm our operating results, including our revenue growth and profitability. 



The continuing global economic uncertainty, political conditions and fiscal challenges in the United States (U.S.) and abroad have, among other things, limited our ability to forecast future demand for our products, contributed to increased periodic volatility in the computer, storage and networking industries at large, as well as the information technology (IT) market, and could constrain future access to capital for our suppliers, customers and partners. The impacts of these circumstances are global and pervasive, and the timing and nature of any ultimate resolution of these matters remain highly uncertain. Consequently, we expect these concerns to challenge our business for the foreseeable future, which could cause harm to our operating results. Such conditions have resulted, and may in the future again result, in failure to meet our forecasted financial expectations and to achieve historical levels of revenue growth. 



Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate materially, which could harm our common stock price. 





•  



Seasonality, such as our historical seasonal decline in revenues in the first quarter of our fiscal year and seasonal increase in revenues in the second quarter of our fiscal year, with the latter due in part to the impact of the U.S. federal government’s September 30 fiscal year end on the timing of its orders; and 



•  



Linearity, such as our historical intra-quarter bookings and revenue pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of each quarter’s total bookings and related revenue occur in the last month of the quarter. 



If our operating results fall below our forecasts and the expectations of public market analysts and investors, the trading price of our common stock may decline.  



Our gross margins vary. 



Our gross margins reflect a variety of factors, including competitive pricing, component and product design, the volume and relative mix of product, software maintenance, hardware maintenance and other services revenues. Increased component costs, increased pricing and discounting pressures, the relative and varying rates of increases or decreases in component costs and product prices, changes in product, software maintenance, hardware maintenance and other services revenue mix or decreased volume could harm our revenues, gross margins or earnings. Our gross margins are also impacted by the cost of any materials that are of poor quality and our sales and distribution activities, including, without limitation, pricing actions, rebates, sales initiatives and discount levels, and the timing of service contract renewals. 



The costs of third-party components comprise a significant portion of our product costs. While we generally have been able to manage our component and product design costs, we may have difficulty managing these costs if supplies of certain components become limited or component prices increase. Any such limitation could result in an increase in our product costs. An increase in component or design costs relative to our product prices could harm our gross margins and earnings. 



We often incur expenses before we receive related benefits, and expenses may be difficult to reduce quickly if demand declines. 



We base our expense levels in part on future revenue expectations and a significant percentage of our expenses is fixed. It is difficult to reduce our fixed costs quickly, and if revenue levels are below our expectations, operating results could be adversely impacted. During periods of uneven growth or decline, we may incur costs before we realize the anticipated related benefits, which could also harm our operating results. We have made, and will continue to make, significant investments in engineering, sales, service and support, marketing and other functions to support and grow our business. We are likely to recognize the costs associated with these investments earlier than some of the related anticipated benefits, such as revenue growth, and the return on these investments may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than we expect, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 



If we are unable to maintain and develop relationships with strategic partners, our revenues may be harmed. 



Our growth strategy includes developing and maintaining strategic partnerships with major third-party software and hardware vendors to integrate our products into their products and also co-market our products with them. A number of these strategic partners are industry leaders that offer us expanded access to segments of the storage and data management markets. However, there is intense competition for attractive strategic partners, and these relationships may not be exclusive, may not generate significant revenues and may be terminated on short notice. For instance, some of our partners are also partnering with our competitors, which may increase the availability of competing solutions and harm our ability to grow our relationships with those partners. Moreover, some of our partners,  





particularly large, more diversified technology companies, are also competitors, complicating our relationships. If we are unable to establish new partnerships or maintain existing partnerships, if our strategic partners favor their relationships with other vendors in the storage industry or if our strategic partners increasingly compete with us, we could experience lower than expected revenues, suffer delays in product development, or experience other harm to our business, operating results and financial condition. 



If we do not achieve forecasted bookings in any quarter, our financial results could be harmed. 



We derive a majority of our revenues in any given quarter from orders booked in the same quarter. Bookings typically follow intra-quarter seasonality patterns weighted toward the back end of the quarter. If we do not achieve the level, timing and mix of bookings consistent with our quarterly targets and historical patterns, or if we experience cancellations of significant orders, our financial results could be harmed. 



A portion of our revenues is generated by large, recurring purchases from various customers, resellers and distributors. A loss, cancellation or delay in purchases by any of these parties has negatively affected us in the past, and in the future could, negatively affect our revenues. 



A significant portion of our net revenues are generated through sales to a limited number of distributors. We generally do not enter into binding purchase commitments with our customers, resellers and distributors for extended periods of time, and thus we may not be able to continue to receive large, recurring orders from these customers, resellers or distributors. For example, our reseller agreements generally do not require minimum purchases, and our customers, resellers and distributors can stop purchasing and marketing our products at any time. In addition, unfavorable economic conditions may negatively impact the solvency of our customers, resellers and distributors or the ability of such customers, resellers and distributors to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products. If any of our key customers, resellers or distributors changes its pricing practices, reduces the size or frequency of its orders for our products, or stops purchasing our products altogether, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely impacted. 



We rely on a limited number of suppliers for critical product components. 



We rely on a limited number of suppliers for drives and other components utilized in the assembly of our products, including certain single source suppliers, which has subjected us, and could in the future subject us to, price rigidity, periodic supply constraints, and the inability to produce our products with the quality and in the quantities demanded. Consolidation among suppliers, particularly within the semiconductor and disk drive industries, has contributed to price rigidity and may in the future create supply constraints. When industry supply is constrained, our suppliers may allocate volumes away from us and to our competitors, all of which rely on many of the same suppliers as we do. Accordingly, our operating results may be harmed. 



Any disruption to our supply chain could materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 





•Limited ability to control the quality, quantity and cost of our products or of their components; 



•The potential for binding price or purchase commitments with our suppliers that are higher than market rates; 



•Limited ability to adjust production volumes in response to our customers’ demand fluctuations; 



•Labor and political unrest at facilities we do not operate or own; 



•Geopolitical disputes disrupting our supply chain; 



•  



Business, legal compliance, litigation and financial concerns affecting our suppliers or their ability to manufacture and ship our products in the quantities, quality and manner we require; and 



•  



Disruptions due to floods, earthquakes, storms and other natural disasters, particularly in countries with limited infrastructure and disaster recovery resources. 



Such risks have in the past and could again in the future subject us to supply constraints, price increases and minimum purchase requirements and our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. The risks associated with our out-sourced manufacturing model are particularly acute when we transition products to new facilities or manufacturers, introduce and increase volumes of new products or qualify new contract manufacturers or suppliers, at which times our ability to manage the relationships among us, our manufacturing partners and our component suppliers, becomes critical. New manufacturers, products, components or  





facilities create increased costs and risk that we will fail to deliver high quality products in the required volumes to our customers. Any failure of a manufacturer or component supplier to meet our quality, quantity or delivery requirements in a cost-effective manner will harm our business, operating results and customer relationships. 



Due to the global nature of our business, risks inherent in our international operations could materially harm our business. 



A significant portion of our operations is located, and a significant portion of our revenues is derived, outside of the U.S. In addition, most of our products are manufactured outside of the U.S., and we have research and development, sales and service centers overseas. Accordingly, our business and our future operating results could be adversely impacted by factors affecting our international operations including, among other things, local political or economic conditions, trade protection and export and import requirements, tariffs, local labor conditions, transportation costs, government spending patterns, acts of terrorism, international conflicts and natural disasters in areas with limited infrastructure. In addition, due to the global nature of our business, we are subject to complex legal and regulatory requirements in the U.S. and the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate and sell our products, including antitrust and anti-competition laws, rules and regulations, and regulations related to data privacy. We are also subject to the potential loss of proprietary information due to piracy, misappropriation, or laws that may be less protective of our intellectual property rights than U.S. laws. Such factors could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. 



We face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our international operations. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve, and they could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. We utilize forward and option contracts in an attempt to reduce the adverse earnings impact from the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on certain assets and liabilities as well as certain anticipated foreign currency cash flows on a short-term basis. Our hedging strategies may not be successful, and currency exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, our foreign currency exposure on assets and liabilities for which we do not hedge could have a material impact on our operating results in periods when the U.S. dollar significantly fluctuates in relation to unhedged non-U.S. currencies in which we transact business. 



Additional risks inherent in our international business activities generally include, among others, longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in managing international operations. 





We could be subject to additional income tax liabilities. 



Our effective tax rate is influenced by a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors include among other things, fluctuations in our earnings and financial results in the various countries and states in which we do business, the outcome of income tax audits and changes to the tax laws in such jurisdictions. Changes to any of these factors could materially impact our operating results. 



We receive significant tax benefits from sales to our non-U.S. customers. These benefits are contingent upon existing tax laws and regulations in the U.S. and in the countries in which our international operations are located. Future changes in domestic or international tax laws and regulations or a change in how we manage our international operations could adversely affect our ability to continue realizing these tax benefits.  



Many countries around the world are beginning to implement legislation and other guidance to align their international tax rules with the Organisation for Economic Co-operation’s Base Erosion and Profit Shifting recommendations and related action plans that aim to standardize and modernize global corporate tax policy, including changes to cross-border tax, transfer-pricing documentation rules and nexus-based tax incentive practices. As a result, many of these changes, if enacted, could increase our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our financial position and results of operations.  



We are routinely subject to income tax audits in the U.S. and several foreign tax jurisdictions. If the ultimate determination of income taxes or at-source withholding taxes assessed under these audits results in amounts in excess of the tax provision we have recorded or reserved for, our operating results, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected.  







expense or accounting treatment of the $739 million expense we have recorded in relation to the transition tax. We have elected to pay the transition tax over a period of eight years. As result, our cash flows from operating activities will be adversely impacted until the additional tax provisions are paid in full. 



Our success depends upon our ability to effectively plan and manage our resources and restructure our business in response to changing market conditions and market demand for our products, and such actions may have an adverse effect on our financial and operating results. 



Our ability to successfully offer our products and services in a rapidly evolving market requires an effective planning, forecasting, and management process to enable us to effectively scale and adjust our business in response to fluctuating market opportunities and conditions. 





If our products are defective, or are perceived to be defective as a result of improper use or maintenance, our gross margins, operating results and customer relationships may be harmed. 



Our hardware and software products are complex. We have experienced in the past, and expect to experience in the future, quality issues. Quality risk is most acute when we are introducing new products. Quality issues have and could again in the future cause customers to experience outages or disruptions in service, data loss or data corruption. If we fail to remedy a product defect, we may experience a failure of a product line, temporary or permanent withdrawal from a product or market, damage to our reputation, loss of revenue, inventory costs or product reengineering expenses and higher ongoing warranty and service costs, and these occurrences could have a material impact on our gross margins, business and operating results. In addition, we exercise little control over how our customers use or maintain our products, and in some cases improper usage or maintenance could impair the performance of our products, which could lead to a perception of a quality issue. Customers and we may experience losses that may result from or are alleged to result from defects in our products, which could subject us to claims for damages, including consequential damages. 



If a data center or other third-party who relies on our products experiences a disruption in service or a loss of data, such disruption could be attributed to the quality of our products, thereby causing financial or reputational harm to our business. 



Our clients, including data centers, SaaS, cloud computing and Internet infrastructure and bandwidth providers, rely on our products for their data storage needs. Our clients may authorize third-party technology providers to access their data on our systems. Because we do not control the transmissions between our clients, their customers, and third-party technology providers, or the processing of such data by third-party technology providers, we cannot ensure the complete integrity or security of such transmissions or processing. Errors or wrongdoing by clients, their customers, or third-party technology providers resulting in security breaches may be attributed to us. 





If a cybersecurity or other security breach occurs on our systems or on our end user customer systems, or if stored data is improperly accessed, customers may reduce or cease using our solutions, our reputation may be harmed and we may incur significant liabilities.  



We store and transmit sensitive and proprietary data related to our products, our employees, customers, clients and partners (including third-party vendors such as data centers and providers of SaaS, cloud computing, and Internet infrastructure and bandwidth), and their respective customers, including intellectual property, books of record and personally identifiable information. It is critical to our business strategy that our infrastructure remains secure and is perceived by customers, clients and partners to be secure. There are numerous and evolving risks to cybersecurity and privacy, including criminal hackers, state-sponsored intrusions, industrial espionage,  





human error and technological vulnerabilities. Cybersecurity incidents or other security breaches could result in (1) unauthorized access to, or loss or unauthorized disclosure of, such information; (2) litigation, indemnity obligations, government investigations and other possible liabilities; (3) negative publicity; and (4) disruptions to our internal and external operations. Any of these could damage our reputation and public perception of the security and reliability of our products, as well as harm our business and cause us to incur significant liabilities. In addition, a cybersecurity incident or other security breach could result in other negative consequences, including remediation costs, disruption of internal operations, increased cybersecurity protection costs and lost revenues. 



Our clients and customers use our platforms for the transmission and storage of sensitive data. We do not monitor or review the information or content that our clients and their customers upload and store, and, therefore, we have no direct control over the substance of the information or content stored within our platforms. If our employees, or our clients, partners or their respective customers use our platforms for the transmission or storage of personally identifiable or other sensitive information and our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance, stolen or fraudulently obtained log-in credentials or otherwise, our reputation could be damaged, our business may be harmed and we could incur significant liabilities. 



High-profile cyber-attacks and security breaches have increased in recent years, and security industry experts and government officials have warned about the risks of hackers and cyberattacks targeting information technology products and businesses. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. As we continue to increase our client base and expand our brand, we may become more of a target for third parties seeking to compromise our security systems and we anticipate that hacking attempts and cyberattacks will increase in the future. We cannot give assurance that we will always be successful in preventing or repelling unauthorized access to our systems. 





There can be no assurance that the limitations of liability in our contracts would be enforceable or adequate or would otherwise protect us from any such liabilities or damages with respect to any particular claim. Our existing general liability insurance coverage and coverage for errors and omissions may not continue to be available on acceptable terms or may not be available in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims, or our insurers may deny coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceeds available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 



If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. 





Equity grants are a critical component of our current compensation programs. If we reduce, modify or eliminate our equity programs, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining critical employees.  



In addition, because of the structure of our cash and equity incentive compensation plans, we may be at increased risk of losing employees at certain times. For example, the retention value of our compensation plans decreases after the payment of annual bonuses or the vesting of equity awards. 



We are continually seeking ways to make our cost structure, business processes and systems more efficient, including by moving activities from higher-cost to lower-cost locations, outsourcing certain business processes and functions, and implementing new  





business information systems. Problems with the execution of these activities could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, we may not achieve the expected benefits of these initiatives. 



We continuously seek to make our cost structure and business processes more efficient, including by moving our business activities from higher-cost to lower-cost locations, outsourcing certain business processes and functions, and implementing changes to our business information systems. These efforts involve a significant investment of financial and human resources and significant changes to our current operating processes. In addition, as we move operations into lower-cost jurisdictions and outsource certain business processes, we become subject to new regulatory regimes and lose control of certain aspects of our operations and, as a consequence, become more dependent upon the systems and business processes of third-parties. If we are unable to move our operations, outsource business processes and implement new business information systems in a manner that complies with local law and maintains adequate standards, controls and procedures, the quality of our products and services may suffer and we may be subject to increased litigation risk, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Additionally, we may not achieve the expected benefits of these and other transformational initiatives, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 



Our acquisitions may not achieve expected benefits, and may increase our liabilities, disrupt our existing business and harm our operating results. 



As part of our strategy, we seek to acquire other businesses and technologies to complement our current products, expand the breadth of our markets, or enhance our technical capabilities. For example, in February 2016, we acquired SolidFire, Inc., and in fiscal 2015 we acquired the SteelStore product line (renamed AltaVault) from Riverbed Technology, Inc. The benefits we expect to receive from these and other acquisitions depend on our ability to successfully conduct due diligence, negotiate the terms of the acquisition and integrate the acquired business into our systems, procedures and organizational structure. Any inaccuracy in our acquisition assumptions or any failure to uncover liabilities or risks associated with the acquisition, make the acquisition on favorable terms, integrate the acquired business or assets as and when expected or retain key employees of the acquired company may reduce or eliminate the expected benefits of the acquisition to us, increase our costs, disrupt our operations, result in additional liabilities, investigations and litigation, and may also harm our strategy, our business and our operating results. The failure to achieve expected acquisition benefits may also result in impairment charges for goodwill and purchased intangible assets. 



Reduced U.S. government demand could materially harm our business and operating results. In addition, we could be harmed by claims that we have or a channel partner has failed to comply with regulatory and contractual requirements applicable to sales to the U.S. government. 



The U.S. government is an important customer for us. However, government demand is uncertain, as it is subject to political and budgetary fluctuations and constraints. Events such as the U.S. federal government shutdown in October 2013 and continued uncertainty regarding the U.S. budget and debt levels, have increased demand uncertainty for our products, and in our fiscal 2016 resulted in lower sales to these customers. In addition, like other customers, the U.S. government may evaluate competing products and delay purchasing in the face of the technology transitions taking place in the storage industry. If the U.S. government or an individual agency or multiple agencies within the U.S. government continue to reduce or shift their IT spending patterns, our revenues and operating results may be harmed. 



Selling our products to the U.S. government, whether directly or through channel partners, also subjects us to certain regulatory and contractual requirements. Failure to comply with these requirements by either us or our channel partners could subject us to investigations, fines, and other penalties, which could materially harm our operating results and financial condition. As an example, the United States Department of Justice (DOJ) and the General Services Administration (GSA) have in the past pursued claims against and financial settlements with IT vendors, including us and several of our competitors and channel partners, under the False Claims Act and other statutes related to pricing and discount practices and compliance with certain provisions of GSA contracts for sales to the federal government. Although the DOJ and GSA currently have no claims pending against us, we could face claims in the future. Violations of certain regulatory and contractual requirements could also result in us being suspended or debarred from future government contracting. Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 



We are exposed to credit risks and fluctuations in the market values of our investment portfolio.  



We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. Credit ratings and pricing of our investments can be negatively affected by liquidity, credit deterioration, financial results, economic risk, political risk, sovereign risk or other factors. As a result, the value and liquidity of our investments may fluctuate substantially. Therefore, although we have not recently realized any significant losses on our investments, future fluctuations in their value could result in a significant realized loss. 



There are risks associated with our outstanding and future indebtedness. 



As of January 26, 2018, we had $1.6 billion aggregate principal amount of outstanding indebtedness for our senior notes that mature at specific dates in calendar years 2019, 2021, 2022 and 2024, and we had an aggregate of $632 million of commercial paper  







In addition, all our debt and credit facility arrangements subject us to continued compliance with restrictive and financial covenants. If we do not comply with these covenants or otherwise default under the arrangements, we may be required to repay any outstanding amounts borrowed under these agreements. Moreover, compliance with these covenants may restrict our strategic or operational flexibility in the future, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 



We are exposed to the credit and non-payment risk of our customers, resellers and distributors, especially during times of economic uncertainty and tight credit markets, which could result in material losses. 



Most of our sales to customers are on an open credit basis, with typical payment terms of 30 days. We may experience losses due to a customer’s inability to pay. Beyond our open credit arrangements, some of our customers have entered into recourse and non-recourse financing leasing arrangements using third-party leasing companies. Under the terms of recourse leases, which are generally three years or less, we remain liable for the aggregate unpaid remaining lease payments to the third-party leasing companies in the event of end-user customer default. During periods of economic uncertainty, our exposure to credit risks from our customers increases. In addition, our exposure to credit risks of our customers may increase further if our customers and their customers or their lease financing sources are adversely affected by global economic conditions. 



Our failure to adjust to emerging standards in the storage and data management industry may harm our business. 



Emerging standards in the storage and data management markets may adversely affect the UNIX®, Windows® and the World Wide Web server markets upon which we depend. For example, we provide our open access data retention solutions to customers within the financial services, healthcare, pharmaceutical and government market segments, industries that are subject to various evolving governmental regulations with respect to data access, reliability and permanence in the U.S. and in the other countries in which we operate. If our products do not meet and continue to comply with these evolving governmental regulations in this regard, customers in these market and geographical segments will not purchase our products, and we may not be able to expand our product offerings in these market and geographical segments at the rates which we have forecasted. 



Some of our products are subject to U.S. export control laws and other laws affecting the countries in which our products and services may be sold, distributed, or delivered; any violation of these laws could have a material and adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 



Due to the global nature of our business, we are subject to import and export restrictions and regulations, including the Export Administration Regulations administered by the Commerce Department’s Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS) and the trade and economic sanctions regulations administered by the Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC). The U.S., through the BIS and OFAC, places restrictions on the sale or export of certain products and services to certain countries and persons. Violators of these export control and sanctions laws may be subject to significant penalties, which may include significant monetary fines, criminal proceedings against them and their officers and employees, a denial of export privileges, and suspension or debarment from selling products to the federal government. Our products could be shipped to those targets by third parties, including potentially our channel partners, despite our precautions. 



If we were ever found to have violated U.S. export control laws, we may be subject to various penalties available under the laws, any of which could have a material and adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Even if we were not found to have violated such laws, the political and media scrutiny surrounding any governmental investigation of us could cause us significant expense and reputational harm. Such collateral consequences could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. 



Changes in regulations relating to our products or their components, or the manufacture, sourcing, distribution or use thereof, may harm our business and operating results. 



The laws and regulations governing the manufacturing, sourcing, distribution and use of our products have become more complex and stringent over time. For example, in addition to various environmental laws relating to carbon emissions and the use and discharge of hazardous materials, the SEC adopted regulations concerning the supply of certain minerals originating from the conflict zones of the Democratic Republic of Congo or adjoining countries. We incur costs to comply with the disclosure requirements of this law and may realize other costs relating to the sourcing and availability of minerals used in our products. Further, since our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational harm if our customers or other stakeholders conclude that we are unable to verify sufficiently the  





origins of the minerals used in the products we sell. As the laws and regulations governing our products continue to expand and change, our costs are likely to rise, and the failure to comply with any such laws and regulations could subject us to business interruptions, litigation risks and reputational harm. 



Our failure to protect our intellectual property could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 



Our success depends significantly upon developing, maintaining and protecting our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions with employees, resellers, strategic partners and customers, to protect our proprietary rights. We currently have multiple U.S. and international patent applications pending and multiple U.S. and international patents issued. The pending applications may not be approved, and our existing and future patents may be challenged. If such challenges are brought, the patents may be invalidated. We may not be able to develop proprietary products or technologies that are patentable, and patents issued to us may not provide us with any competitive advantages and may be challenged by third parties. Further, the patents of others may materially and adversely affect our ability to do business. In addition, a failure to obtain and defend our trademark registrations may impede our marketing and branding efforts and competitive condition. Litigation may be necessary to protect our proprietary technology. Any such litigation may be time-consuming and costly. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the U.S. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate or our competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products, or design around patents issued to us or other intellectual property rights of ours. 





Third parties may in the future claim infringement by us with respect to current or future products, patents, trademarks or other proprietary rights. We expect that companies in the network storage and data management markets will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. Any such claims, and any such infringement claims discussed above, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays, require us to redesign our products, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, any of which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. 



Our business could be materially and adversely affected as a result of natural disasters, terrorist acts or other catastrophic events. 



We depend on the ability of our personnel, inventories, equipment and products to move reasonably unimpeded around the world. Any political, military, terrorism, global trade, world health or other issue that hinders this movement or restricts the import or export of materials could lead to significant business disruptions. Furthermore, any economic failure or other material disruption caused by natural disasters, including fires, floods, hurricanes, earthquakes, and volcanoes; power loss or shortages; environmental disasters; telecommunications or business information systems failures or break-ins and similar events could also adversely affect our ability to conduct business. If such disruptions result in cancellations of customer orders or contribute to a general decrease in economic activity or corporate spending on IT, or directly impact our marketing, manufacturing, financial and logistics functions, or impair our ability to meet our customer demands, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, our headquarters is located in Northern California, an area susceptible to earthquakes. If any significant disaster were to occur, our ability to operate our business and our financial condition could be impaired. 



Changes in financial accounting standards may cause adverse unexpected fluctuations and affect our reported operating results. 



A change in accounting standards or practices and varying interpretations of existing accounting pronouncements, the increased use of fair value measures, changes to revenue recognition, lease accounting, financial instruments and other accounting standards could have a significant effect on our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. Implementation of accounting regulations and related interpretations and policies, particularly those related to revenue recognition, could cause us to defer recognition of revenue or recognize lower revenue, which may affect our operating results. 



Our stock price is subject to volatility. 



Our stock price is subject to changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by financial analysts, changes in investors' or analysts' valuation measures for our stock, changes in our capital structure, including issuance of additional debt, changes in our credit  





ratings, our ability to pay dividends and to continue to execute our stock repurchase program as planned and market trends unrelated to our performance.  





Furthermore, speculation in the press or investment community about our strategic position, financial condition, results of operations or business can cause changes in our stock price. These factors, as well as general economic and political conditions and the timing of announcements in the public market regarding new products or services, product enhancements or technological advances by our competitors or us, and any announcements by us of acquisitions, major transactions, or management changes may adversely affect our stock price. 



