fls.txt



item1.txt
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations.
These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018.
The standard did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements or disclosures.
The amendments in this update align the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software (and hosting arrangements that include an internal-use software license).
The standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
The Company designs, markets and sells products primarily as commercial, off-the-shelf products.
Certain customers request different system configurations, based on standard options or accessories that the Company offers.
Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for those products or services.
The Company regularly enters into contracts that can include various combinations of products and services, which are generally capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations.
The vast majority of the Company's revenues are recognized at a point in time when goods are transferred to a customer.
However, for certain contracts that include highly customized components, if performance does not create an asset with an alternative use and termination for convenience clauses provide an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, revenue is recognized over time as the performance obligation is satisfied.
Revenue includes certain shipping and handling costs and is stated net of third party agency fees.
Shipping and handling costs associated with outbound freight after control over a product has transferred to a customer are accounted for as a fulfillment cost and are included in cost of goods sold.
The Company's products are sold with warranty provisions that require it to remedy deficiencies in quality or performance of the Company's products over a specified period of time, generally twelve to twenty-four months, at no cost to its customers.
Warranty liabilities are established at the time that revenue is recognized at levels that represent the Company's estimate of the costs that will be incurred to fulfill those warranty requirements.
See Note 19, "Operating Segments and Related Information - Revenue and Long-Lived Assets by Geographic Area" for information related to the Company’s revenues disaggregated by significant geographical region and operating segment.


item2.txt
Consolidated revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2019, increased by 1.2 percent year over year, from $439.6 million in the first quarter of 2018 to $444.7 million in the first quarter of 2019.
Increases in revenues for the three month period in our Industrial and Government and Defense business units were partially offset by declines in the Commercial business unit.
International sales accounted for 45.4 percent and 48.7 percent of total revenue for the quarters ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Cost of goods sold for the three months ended March 31, 2019 were $211.1 million compared to cost of goods sold for the three months ended March 31, 2018 of $221.7 million.
Gross profit for the quarter ended March 31, 2019, was $233.7 million compared to $217.9 million for the same quarter last year.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
The Company is subject to legal proceedings, claims and litigation arising in the ordinary course of its business.
Additionally, we cannot be certain or give any assurance that any actions taken to reduce known risks and uncertainties will be effective.
A significant reduction in the purchase of our products by these agencies or contractors for these agencies would have a material adverse effect on our business.
A failure to pass budget appropriations, adopt continuing funding resolutions or other budgetary decisions limiting or delaying federal government spending, could reduce government spending on our products and services and have a material adverse effect on our business and our operating results.
Continued and further reductions in military spending could have a material adverse effect on our results from operations.
Any significant shortfall of sales may result in us carrying higher levels of inventories of finished goods, components and raw materials thereby increasing our risk of inventory obsolescence and corresponding inventory write-downs and write-offs.
We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that have arisen out of the ordinary conduct of our business and are not yet resolved, and additional claims may arise in the future.
From time to time, we are involved in lawsuits concerning intellectual property, torts, contracts, shareholder litigation, administrative and regulatory proceedings and other matters, as well as governmental inquiries and investigations, the outcomes of which may be significant to our results of operations and may limit our ability to engage in our business activities.


