In the opinion of management, these statements have been prepared on the same basis as the audited consolidated financial statements and include all adjustments, consisting of only normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s consolidated financial position and results of operations for the interim periods.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations.
These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018.
Effective January 1, 2019, the Company adopted ASC 842 and all the related amendments using the modified retrospective method, using the permitted practical expedients, to those contracts still outstanding as of January 1, 2019.
The most significant impact was the recognition, on a discounted basis, of right-of-use (ROU) assets totaling approximately $31.9 million and lease liabilities totaling approximately $34.2 million under non-cancelable operating leases as of January 1, 2019 and the related new required disclosures.
The standard did not have an impact on the Company's consolidated income statements or consolidated statements of cash flows.
For additional disclosures required under the new standard, see Note 9, "Leases" of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The standard did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements or disclosures.
The amendments in this update align the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software (and hosting arrangements that include an internal-use software license).
The standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.Consolidated revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2019, increased by 8.4 percent year over year, from $434.9 million in the third quarter of 2018 to $471.2 million in the third quarter of 2019.
Consolidated revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 increased by 5.3 percent year over year, from $1,327.2 million in the first nine months of 2018 to $1,398.0 million in the first nine months of 2019.
Increases in revenues for the three month period was primarily driven by increases in our Government and Defense business unit which is partially attributed to the acquisitions of Aeryon Labs Inc.
Increases in revenues for the nine month period were primarily driven by increases in our Government and Defense business unit as noted above, partially offset by declines in our Commercial business unit as a result of the divestiture of the Consumer and Small and Medium-sized ("SMB") Security businesses as announced in February 2018 and volume declines in the Maritime and Outdoor and Tactical Systems ("OTS") businesses.Additionally, we cannot be certain or give any assurance that any actions taken to reduce known risks and uncertainties will be effective.
A significant reduction in the purchase of our products by these agencies or contractors for these agencies would have a material adverse effect on our business.
A failure to pass budget appropriations, adopt continuing funding resolutions or other budgetary decisions limiting or delaying federal government spending, could reduce government spending on our products and services and have a material adverse effect on our business and our operating results.
Continued and further reductions in military spending could have a material adverse effect on our results from operations.
Some expenses, such as those related to research and development activities, would likely be maintained in the event of a sales downturn in order to maintain and enhance our long-term competitiveness.