item1.txt
Effective January 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2014-09 and all the related amendments ("new revenue standard" or "ASC 606") using the modified retrospective method to those contracts not yet completed as of January 1, 2018.
As a result, the Company recognized the cumulative effect of initially applying the new revenue standard as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the amount of approximately $1.0 million as of January 1, 2018.
The Company expects the impact of the adoption of the new standard to be immaterial to net income on an ongoing basis.
Effective January 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2016-16, which eliminates the exception of recognizing, at the time of transfer, current and deferred income taxes for intra-entity asset transfers other than inventory.
The Company designs, markets and sells products primarily as commercial, off-the-shelf products.
Certain customers request different system configurations, based on standard options or accessories that the Company offers.
Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for those products or services.
The Company regularly enters into contracts that can include various combinations of products and services, which are generally capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations.
The vast majority of the Company's revenues are recognized at a point in time when goods are transferred to a customer.
However, for certain contracts that include highly customized components, if performance does not create an asset with an alternative use and termination for convenience clauses provide an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, revenue is recognized over time as the performance obligation is satisfied.
"Operating Segments and Related Information - Revenue and Long-Lived Assets by Geographic Area" for information related to the Company’s revenues disaggregated by significant geographical region and operating segment.
The Company had no material deferred contract costs recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2018.
Remaining performance obligations related to ASC 606 represent the aggregate transaction price allocated to performance obligations with an original contract term greater than one year which are fully or partially unsatisfied at the end of the period.
The Company has elected to exclude contracts with customers with an original term of one year or less from remaining performance obligations while these contracts are included within backlog.
As of September 30, 2018, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations was approximately $82.4 million.
The Company expects to recognize revenue on approximately 78 percent of the remaining performance obligations over the next twelve months, and the remainder recognized thereafter.
The Company has an Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the “ESPP”) which allows employees to purchase shares of the Company’s common stock at 85 percent of the fair market value at the lower of either the date of enrollment or the purchase date.


item2.txt
Cost of goods sold for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 were $212.8 million and $654.7 million, compared to cost of goods sold for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 of $241.8 million and $684.7 million, respectively.
The decrease in cost of goods sold for the three and nine month periods is primarily related to the decline in our Commercial business unit as a result of the Consumer and SMB Security business divestiture.
Gross profit for the quarter ended September 30, 2018, was $222.1 million compared to $222.9 million for the same quarter last year.
Gross profit for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was $672.5 million compared to $620.9 million for the nine month period ended September 30, 2017.
Gross margin, defined as gross profit divided by revenue, increased from 48.0 percent in the third quarter of 2017 to 51.1 percent in the third quarter of 2018 and increased from 47.6 percent for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 to 50.7 percent during the nine months ended September 30, 2018.


item4.txt
Based on the evaluation, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures are effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports it files or submits under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms.


part2.txt
Continued and further reductions in military spending could have a material adverse effect on our results from operations.
Any significant shortfall of sales may result in us carrying higher levels of inventories of finished goods, components and raw materials thereby increasing our risk of inventory obsolescence and corresponding inventory write-downs and write-offs.
Our fixed costs, including facilities and information technology costs, compliance and public company costs, and depreciation and amortization related to 
Our industry is subject to rapid changes in technology, which may result in unexpected obsolescence or impairment of our assets.
In addition, certain of our tangible assets such as inventory and machinery and equipment may experience impairment in their value as a result of such events as the introduction of new products, changes in technology or changes in customer demand patterns.
We depreciate our machinery and equipment at levels we believe are adequate; however, there can be no assurance that there will not be a future impairment that may have a material impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Some of these factors recently have had an adverse impact on our sales and operations and increased our cost of doing business and subjected the business to additional rules, policies and procedures that impacted the operation of the Company.


