fls.txt



item1.txt
In the opinion of management, these statements have been prepared on the same basis as the audited consolidated financial statements and include all adjustments, consisting of only normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s consolidated financial position and results of operations for the interim periods.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations.
These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018.
Effective January 1, 2019, the Company adopted ASC 842 and all the related amendments using the modified retrospective method, using the permitted practical expedients, to those contracts still outstanding as of January 1, 2019.
The most significant impact was the recognition, on a discounted basis, of right-of-use (ROU) assets totaling approximately $31.9 million and lease liabilities totaling approximately $34.2 million under non-cancelable operating leases as of January 1, 2019 and the related new required disclosures.
The standard did not have an impact on the Company's consolidated income statements or consolidated statements of cash flows.
For additional disclosures required under the new standard, see Note 9, "Leases" of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The standard did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements or disclosures.
The amendments in this update align the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software (and hosting arrangements that include an internal-use software license).
The standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
The Company designs, markets and sells products primarily as commercial, off-the-shelf products.
Certain customers request different system configurations, based on standard options or accessories that the Company offers.
Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for those products or services.
The Company regularly enters into contracts that can include various combinations of products and services, which are generally capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations.
The vast majority of the Company's revenues are recognized at a point in time when goods are transferred to a customer.
However, for certain contracts that include highly customized components, if performance does not create an asset with an alternative use and termination for convenience clauses provide an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, revenue is recognized over time as the performance obligation is satisfied.


item2.txt
Consolidated revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2019, increased by 6.5 percent year over year, from $452.7 million in the second quarter of 2018 to $482.0 million in the second quarter of 2019.
Consolidated revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2019 increased by 3.9 percent year over year, from $892.3 million in the first six months of 2018 to $926.7 million in the first six months of 2019.
Increases in revenues for the three month period was primarily driven by increases in our Government and Defense business unit which is partially attributed to the acquisitions of Aeryon Labs Inc.
Increases in revenues for the sixth month period were primarily driven by increases in our Government and Defense business unit as noted above, partially offset by declines in our Commercial business unit as a result of the divestiture of the Consumer and Small and Medium-sized ("SMB") Security businesses as announced in February 2018 and volume declines in the Maritime and Outdoor and Tactical Systems ("OTS") businesses.
International sales accounted for 44.2 percent and 48.4 percent of total revenue for the quarters ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Additionally, we cannot be certain or give any assurance that any actions taken to reduce known risks and uncertainties will be effective.
A significant reduction in the purchase of our products by these agencies or contractors for these agencies would have a material adverse effect on our business.
A failure to pass budget appropriations, adopt continuing funding resolutions or other budgetary decisions limiting or delaying federal government spending, could reduce government spending on our products and services and have a material adverse effect on our business and our operating results.
Continued and further reductions in military spending could have a material adverse effect on our results from operations.
Some expenses, such as those related to research and development activities, would likely be maintained in the event of a sales downturn in order to maintain and enhance our long-term competitiveness.
Any significant shortfall of sales may result in us carrying higher levels of inventories of finished goods, components and raw materials thereby increasing our risk of inventory obsolescence and corresponding inventory write-downs and write-offs.
We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that have arisen out of the ordinary conduct of our business and are not yet resolved, and additional claims may arise in the future.


