Financial Statements.
Skyworks Solutions, Inc., together with its consolidated subsidiaries (“Skyworks” or the “Company”), is empowering the wireless networking revolution.
The Company’s analog semiconductors are connecting people, places, and things, spanning a number of new applications within the aerospace, automotive, broadband, cellular infrastructure, connected home, industrial, medical, military, smartphone, tablet and wearable markets.
The accompanying unaudited interim consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) for interim financial reporting.
Certain information and footnote disclosures, normally included in annual consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”), have been condensed or omitted pursuant to those rules and regulations.
The results of operations, financial position, and cash flows for the Company during the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of those expected for the full year.
This information should be read in conjunction with the Company’s financial statements and notes thereto contained in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2018, filed with the SEC on November 15, 2018, as amended by Amendment No.
1 to such Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the SEC on January 25, 2019 (the “2018 10-K”).
Significant judgment is required in determining the reserves for and fair value of items such as overall fair value assessments of assets and liabilities, particularly those classified as Level 2 or Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy, marketable securities, inventory, intangible assets associated with business combinations, share-based compensation, loss contingencies, and income taxes.
In addition, significant judgment is required in determining whether a potential indicator of impairment of long-lived assets exists and in estimating future cash flows for any necessary impairment testing.
The Company’s fiscal year ends on the Friday closest to September 30.
The third quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018 each consisted of 13 weeks and ended on June 28, 2019, and June 29, 2018, respectively.
 In August 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) deferred the effective date of Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), (“ASU 2014-09”), which outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers.
The Company has determined the impact of the new revenue standard on its business processes, systems, controls and consolidated financial statements is not material.
Refer to Note 2, Revenue Recognition, for additional information.
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740), Intra-entity Transfers of an Asset Other than Inventory (“ASU 2016-16”).
This ASU provides guidance that changes the accounting for income tax effects of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
Under the new guidance, the selling (transferring) entity is required to recognize a current tax expense or benefit upon transfer of the asset.
The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments (Topic 320), (“ASU 2016-13”).
This ASU requires a financial asset (or a group of financial assets) measured on the basis of amortized cost to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected.
This ASU requires that the income statement reflect the measurement of credit losses for newly recognized financial assets as well as the expected increases or decreases of expected credit losses that have taken place during the period.
This ASU requires that credit losses of debt securities designated as available-for-sale be recorded through an allowance for credit losses.
amortized cost.
The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01, Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (Topic 320), (“ASU 2016-01”).
This ASU provides guidance for the recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of financial assets and liabilities.
The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
This ASU expands the scope of Topic 718 to include share-based payment transactions for acquiring goods and services from nonemployees.
The Company adopted ASU 2018-07 during the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-15, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other-Internal-Use Software (Topic 350), Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That Is a Service Contract (“ASU 2018-15”).
The new guidance clarifies the accounting for implementation costs in cloud computing arrangements.
The Company adopted ASU 2018-15, on a prospective basis, during the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
This ASU requires lessees to reflect leases with a term greater than one year on their balance sheet as assets and obligations.
The Company will utilize the modified retrospective method and will recognize any cumulative effect adjustment in retained earnings at the beginning of the period of adoption.
The Company plans to elect the package of three practical expedients that permits the Company to maintain its historical conclusions about lease identification, lease classification and initial direct costs for leases that exist at the date of adoption.
Further, upon implementation of the new guidance, the Company intends to elect the practical expedient to not separate lease and non-lease components.
The Company has performed an assessment of the impact that the adoption of ASU 2016-02 will have on the consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
Based on that assessment, the Company has estimated that the adoption of ASU 2016-02 will result in the recognition of approximately $150 million to $170 million of right-of-use assets and lease liabilities based on the present value of future minimum lease payments for currently executed leases.
At June 28, 2019, the Company had $13.9 million accrued to other long-term liabilities for capital equipment, and $80.6 million accrued to accounts payable for capital equipment.
At September 28, 2018, the Company had $13.9 million accrued to other long-term liabilities for capital equipment, and $94.1 million accrued to accounts payable for capital equipment.
These amounts accrued at June 28, 2019, for capital equipment purchases have been excluded from the consolidated statements of cash flows for the nine months ended June 28, 2019, and are expected to be paid in subsequent periods.
The Company adopted ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 for open contracts not completed as of the adoption date using the modified retrospective approach.
The impact from the cumulative effect adjustment was not material and comparative information for prior periods has not been adjusted.
The impact of applying the new standard on the Company’s consolidated financial statements for the nine months ended June 28, 2019, was not material, except for an increase in accounts receivable and other current liabilities in the amount of $29.4 million to reflect customer credits as a liability.
price to the performance obligations in the contract; and (5) recognizing revenue when the corresponding performance obligation is satisfied.
Each distinct promise to transfer products is considered to be an identified performance obligation for which revenue is recognized at a point in time upon transfer of control of the products to the customer.
Point in time recognition is determined as products manufactured under non-cancellable orders create an asset with an alternative use to the Company.
Returns under the Company’s general assurance warranty of products have not been material and warranty-related services are not considered a separate performance obligation.
As of June 28, 2019, the amount of remaining performance obligation that has not been recognized as revenue is not material.
Pricing adjustments and estimates of returns are treated as variable consideration for purposes of determining the transaction price.
Sales returns are generally accepted at the Company’s discretion or from distributors with stock rotation rights.
Price protection represents price discounts granted to certain distributors and is based on negotiations on sales to end customers.
The Company records net revenue excluding taxes collected on its sales to trade customers.
Payments are due within one year of invoicing and do not include a significant financing component.
To date, there have been no material impairment losses on accounts receivable.
There were no material contract assets or contract liabilities recorded on the consolidated balance sheet in any of the periods presented.
All incremental customer contract acquisition costs are expensed as they are incurred as the amortization period of the asset that the Company otherwise would have recognized is one year or less in duration.
The Company has a single reportable operating segment which designs, develops, manufactures and markets similar proprietary semiconductor products, including intellectual property.
In reaching this conclusion, management considers the definition of the chief operating decision maker (“CODM”), how the business is defined by the CODM, the nature of the information provided to the CODM and how that information is used to make operating decisions, allocate resources and assess performance.
The Company’s revenue from external customers is generated principally from the sale of semiconductor products that facilitate various wireless communication applications.
Accordingly, the Company considers its product offerings to be similar in nature and therefore not segregated for reporting purposes.
The contractual maturities of noncurrent available-for-sale marketable securities were due within two years or less.
There were unrealized gains of $0.1 million on U.S. Treasury securities, $0.1 million on corporate bonds and notes, and $0.1 million on municipal bonds at June 28, 2019, and $0.1 million in unrealized losses on municipal bonds at September 28, 2018.
•Level 1 - Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
•Level 2 - Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in markets with insufficient volume or infrequent transactions (less active markets), or model-driven valuations in which all significant inputs are observable or can be derived principally from, or corroborated with, observable market data.
•Level 3 - Fair value is derived from valuation techniques in which one or more significant inputs are unobservable, including assumptions and judgments made by the Company.
The Company’s non-financial assets and liabilities, such as goodwill, intangible assets, and other long-lived assets resulting from business combinations, are measured at fair value using income approach valuation methodologies at the date of acquisition and are subsequently re-measured if there are indicators of impairment.
There were no indicators of impairment identified during the three and nine months ended June 28, 2019.
There were no changes to the carrying amount of goodwill during the three and nine months ended June 28, 2019.
The Company tests its goodwill for impairment annually as of the first day of its fourth fiscal quarter and in interim periods if certain events occur indicating the carrying value of goodwill may be impaired.
There were no indicators of impairment noted during the three and nine months ended June 28, 2019.
These BEAT provisions are effective for the Company beginning in fiscal 2019.
The Company has analyzed the BEAT provisions for the three and nine months ended June 28, 2019, and is not subject to the minimum tax imposed by the BEAT provisions.
The Company operates under a tax holiday in Singapore, which is effective through September 30, 2020.
The Company has completed negotiations for an extension of this tax holiday through September 30, 2030.
The current tax holiday and extension are both conditioned upon the Company's compliance with certain employment and investment thresholds in Singapore.
Accrued taxes of $26.2 million and $43.8 million have been included in other current liabilities within the consolidated balance sheets as of June 28, 2019, and September 28, 2018, respectively.
The deemed repatriation tax is payable over the next seven years, $18.0 million per year for each of the next four years, followed by payments of $33.6 million, $44.9 million, and $56.1 million in years five through seven, respectively.
The Company has accrued $188.6 million and $206.6 million of the deemed repatriation tax in long-term liabilities within the consolidated balance sheet as of June 28, 2019, and September 28, 2018, respectively.
The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights.
From time to time the Company may also be involved in legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business.
The Company has made no significant contractual guarantees for the benefit of third parties.
In connection with certain facility leases, the Company has indemnified its lessors for certain claims arising from the facility or the lease.
The Company indemnifies its directors and officers to the maximum extent permitted under the laws of the state of Delaware.
The duration of the indemnities varies, and in many cases is indefinite.
In certain instances, the Company’s indemnities do not provide for any limitation of the maximum potential future payments the Company could be obligated to make.
The Company has not recorded any liability for these indemnities in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and does not expect that such obligations will have a material adverse impact on its financial statements.
On January 30, 2019, the Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program, pursuant to which the Company is authorized to repurchase up to $2.0 billion of its common stock from time to time prior to January 30, 2021, on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements.
This newly authorized stock repurchase plan replaced in its entirety the January 31, 2018, stock repurchase program.
During the three months ended June 28, 2019, the Company paid $85.8 million (including commissions) in connection with the repurchase of 1.2 million shares of its common stock (paying an average price of $72.20 per share).
During the nine months ended June 28, 2019, the Company paid $511.3 million (including commissions) in connection with the repurchase of 6.9 million shares of its common stock (paying an average price of $73.85 per share).
As of June 28, 2019, $1.8 billion remained available under the existing stock repurchase authorization.
On August 7, 2019, the Company announced that the Board of Directors had declared a cash dividend on its common stock of $0.44 per share, payable on September 17, 2019, to the Company’s stockholders of record as of the close of business on August 27, 2019.
Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing net income by the weighted average number of shares of the Company’s common stock outstanding during the period.
The calculation of diluted earnings per share includes the dilutive effect of equity based awards that were outstanding during the three and nine months ended June 28, 2019, and June 29, 2018, using the treasury stock method.
Certain of the Company’s outstanding share-based awards, noted in the table above, were excluded because they were anti-dilutive, but they could become dilutive in the future.
The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights.
From time to time the Company may also be involved in legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business.
Risk Factors.
Except as set forth below, there have been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in the 2018 10-K.
Finally, we maintain wafer fabrication facilities in Kadoma, Japan, and Osaka, Japan, as well as packaging, assembly and test facilities in Mexicali, Mexico, and in Singapore.
Additionally, we are subject to risks in certain global markets in which wireless operators provide subsidies on handset sales to their customers.
Limitations or changes in policy on phone subsidies in the United States, South Korea, Japan, China, and other countries may have additional negative impacts on our revenues.
Some of the countries in which we operate and seek to expand are in emerging markets where legal systems may be less developed or familiar to us.
Compliance with diverse legal requirements is costly and time-consuming and requires significant resources.
Although we intend to expand our business and operations in China, our success in the Chinese markets may be adversely affected by China’s continuously evolving laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, currency controls, anti-corruption, environmental regulations, indigenous innovation, and intellectual property rights and enforcement of those rights.
Enforcement of existing laws or agreements may be inconsistent.
