Item 4.
Controls and Procedures

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Pursuant to Rule 13a-15(e) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, management, under the direction of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated our disclosure controls and procedures.
Based on such evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of September 30, 2019.
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

The acquisition of Quality Thermistor, Inc. ("QTI") on July 31, 2019, represents a material change in internal control over financial reporting since management’s last assessment of our internal control over financial reporting which was completed as of December 31, 2018.
The QTI business utilizes separate information and accounting systems and processes.
We intend to exclude the operations of QTI from the scope of our Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 report on internal controls over financial reporting for the year ended December 31, 2019.
There were no other significant changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting during the most recent fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
The process for evaluating controls and procedures is continuous and encompasses constant improvement of the design and effectiveness of established controls and procedures and the remediation of any deficiencies which may be identified during this process.
Legal Proceedings

From time to time we are involved in litigation with respect to matters arising from the ordinary conduct of our business, and currently certain claims are pending against us.
In the opinion of management, based upon presently available information, either adequate provision for anticipated costs have been accrued or the ultimate anticipated costs will not materially affect our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors

There have been no significant changes to our risk factors since December 31, 2018.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds

On February 7, 2019 the Board of Directors authorized a new stock repurchase program with a maximum dollar limit of $25 million.
This program authorizes us to make repurchases of our common stock from time to time on the open market, but does not obligate us to make repurchases, and has no expiration date.
Item 6.
Exhibits 






104The cover page from this Current Report on Form 10-Q formatted as inline XBRL

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
