fls.txt



item1.txt
Amounts as of October 29, 2017 are derived from the October 29, 2017 audited consolidated financial statements.
Applied’s fiscal year ends on the last Sunday in October of each year.
Fiscal 2018 and 2017 each contain 52 weeks, and the first three months of fiscal 2018 and 2017 each contained 13 weeks.
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation.
Inventory Measurement.
This guidance does not apply to inventory that is measured using last-in, first out (LIFO) or the retail inventory method but applies to all other inventory including those measured using first-in, first-out (FIFO) or the average cost method.
Share-Based Compensation.
Derivatives and Hedging.
In August 2017, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that modifies the recognition and presentation of hedge accounting to better align an entity’s risk management strategies and financial reporting for hedging relationships.
The authoritative guidance will be effective for Applied in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, with early adoption permitted.
In March 2017, the FASB issued authoritative guidance which requires companies to present the service cost component of net benefit cost in the same line items in which they report compensation cost.
Goodwill Impairment.
In January 2017, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that simplifies the process required to test goodwill for impairment.
In January 2017, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that clarifies the definition of a business to help companies evaluate whether acquisition or disposal transactions should be accounted for as asset groups or as businesses.
Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments.


item2.txt
These customers may use what they manufacture in their own end products or sell the items to other companies for use in advanced electronic components.
Fiscal 2018 and 2017 each contains 52 weeks, and the first three months of fiscal 2018 and 2017 each contained 13 weeks.
Display equipment spending reflected continued investment in new technology and manufacturing equipment.
The decrease in net sales from customers in Taiwan primarily reflected decreased investments in semiconductor equipment, partially offset by increased investments in display manufacturing equipment.
Gross margin during the three months ended January 28, 2018 and January 29, 2017 included $22 million and $17 million of share-based compensation expense, respectively.
Applied’s future operating results depend to a considerable extent on its ability to maintain a competitive advantage in the equipment and service products it provides.
Development cycles range from 12 to 36 months depending on whether the product is an enhancement of an existing product, which typically has a shorter development cycle, or a new product, which typically has a longer development cycle.
Most of Applied’s existing products resulted from internal development activities and innovations involving new technologies, materials and processes.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
The risk factors set forth below include any material changes to, and supersede the description of, the risk factors disclosed in Part I, Item 1A of Applied’s 2017 Form 10-K.
The industries that Applied serves can be volatile and difficult to predict.
During periods of decreasing demand, Applied must reduce costs and align its cost structure with prevailing market conditions; effectively manage its supply chain; and motivate and retain key employees.
If Applied does not effectively manage these challenges during periods of changing demand, its business performance and results of operations may be adversely impacted.
Applied is exposed to risks associated with an uncertain global economy.
Markets for semiconductors and displays depend largely on business and consumer spending and demand for electronic products.


