fls.txt



item1.txt
Amounts as of April 29, 2018 are unaudited.
Amounts as of October 29, 2017 are derived from the October 29, 2017 audited consolidated financial statements.
Fiscal 2018 and 2017 each contain 52 weeks, and the first half of fiscal 2018 and 2017 each contained 26 weeks.
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation.
Inventory Measurement.
In July 2015, the Financial Accounting Standard Board (FASB) issued authoritative guidance that requires inventory to be measured at the lower of cost and net realizable value instead of at lower of cost or market.
Share-Based Compensation.
In the six months ended April 29, 2018, Applied recognized an excess tax benefit of $53 million in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Operations.
Goodwill Impairment.
In January 2017, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that simplifies the process required to test goodwill for impairment.
In January 2017, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that clarifies the definition of a business to help companies evaluate whether acquisition or disposal transactions should be accounted for as asset groups or as businesses.
Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments.
In February 2016, the FASB issued authoritative guidance for lease accounting, which requires lessees to recognize lease assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for certain lease arrangements that are classified as operating leases under the previous standard, and to provide for enhanced disclosures.
Revenue Recognition.
In May 2014, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that requires revenue recognition to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services, and requires certain additional disclosures.


item2.txt
Applied provides manufacturing equipment, services and software to the semiconductor, display, and related industries.
These customers may use what they manufacture in their own end products or sell the items to other companies for use in advanced electronic components.
Applied’s results are driven primarily by customer spending on capital equipment and services to support key technology transitions or to increase production volume in response to worldwide demand for semiconductors and displays.
Fiscal 2018 and 2017 each contains 52 weeks, and the first six months of fiscal 2018 and 2017 each contained 26 weeks.
Overall semiconductor systems revenue increased as logic and NAND demand remained strong, and dynamic random-access memory (DRAM) demand increased, reflecting increasing memory requirements in smartphones and servers.
The decrease in net sales from customers in Taiwan for the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2018 compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily reflected decreased investments in semiconductor equipment, partially offset by increased investments in display manufacturing equipment.
Gross margin during the three months ended April 29, 2018 and April 30, 2017 included $21 million and $16 million of share-based compensation expense, respectively.
Development cycles range from 12 to 36 months depending on whether the product is an enhancement of an existing product, which typically has a shorter development cycle, or a new product, which typically has a longer development cycle.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
The information set forth under “Legal Matters” in Note 12 in Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements is incorporated herein by reference.
The risk factors set forth below include any material changes to, and supersede the description of, the risk factors disclosed in Part I, Item 1A of Applied’s 2017 Form 10-K.
During periods of decreasing demand, Applied must reduce costs and align its cost structure with prevailing market conditions; effectively manage its supply chain; and motivate and retain key employees.
If Applied does not effectively manage these challenges during periods of changing demand, its business performance and results of operations may be adversely impacted.
Uncertain global economic and business conditions, along with uncertainties and volatility in the financial markets, national debt and fiscal concerns in various regions, pose challenges to the industries in which Applied operates.
Markets for semiconductors and displays depend largely on business and consumer spending and demand for electronic products.


