fls.txt



item1.txt
These unaudited interim consolidated condensed financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Applied’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 28, 2018 (2018 Form 10-K).
Applied’s fiscal year ends on the last Sunday in October of each year.
Fiscal 2019 and 2018 each contain 52 weeks, and the first three months of fiscal 2019 and 2018 each contained 13 weeks.
All financial statements and disclosures have been recast to comply with this new guidance.
On an ongoing basis, Applied evaluates its estimates, including those related to standalone selling price (SSP) related to revenue recognition, accounts receivable and sales allowances, fair values of financial instruments, inventories, intangible assets and goodwill, useful lives of intangible assets and property and equipment, fair values of share-based awards, and income taxes, among others.
This allowance is based on historical experience, credit evaluations, specific customer collection history and any customer-specific issues Applied has identified.
Taxes collected from customers and remitted to governmental authorities are presented on a net basis in the accompanying Consolidated Condensed Statements of Operations.
Estimated warranty costs are determined by analyzing specific product, current and historical configuration statistics and regional warranty support costs.
If actual warranty costs differ substantially from Applied’s estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be required.
Applied receives payment at the inception of the contract and recognizes revenue ratably over the extended warranty coverage period, as the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits of the extended warranty.
Collectability is assessed based on the customer’s creditworthiness determined by reviewing the customer’s published credit and financial information, historical payment experience, as well as other relevant factors.
Applied’s service agreements are considered one performance obligation and may include multiple goods and services that we provide to the customer to deliver against a performance metric.
Judgment is used to determine whether multiple promised goods or services in a contract should be accounted for separately or as a group.
Applied includes variable consideration in the transaction price to the extent that it is probable that a significant reversal of revenue will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is subsequently resolved.
Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations.
Applied generally estimates the standalone selling price of a distinct performance obligation based on historical cost plus an appropriate margin.


item2.txt
These customers may use what they manufacture in their own end products or sell the items to other companies for use in advanced electronic components.
Fiscal 2019 and 2018 each contains 52 weeks, and the first three months of fiscal 2019 and 2018 each contained 13 weeks.
While Applied anticipates major technology trends to continue driving long-term growth in the semiconductor industry, the trends characterizing the second half of 2018 continued into early fiscal 2019, with lower spending by memory customers, and foundry and logic customers prioritizing spending on longer lead-time equipment not in Applied’s product portfolio.
Applied anticipates continued growth in semiconductor services spending in fiscal 2019.
The three months ended January 28, 2018 included a one-time expense related to the enactment of recent U.S. tax legislation that reduced diluted earnings per share by $0.94.
For the three months ended January 27, 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year, net sales decreased primarily due to decreased customer investments in semiconductor equipment.
Development cycles range from 12 to 36 months depending on whether the product is an enhancement of an existing product, which typically has a shorter development cycle, or a new product, which typically has a longer development cycle.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
The information set forth under “Legal Matters” in Note 13 in Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements is incorporated herein by reference.
The risk factors set forth below include any material changes to, and supersede the description of, the risk factors disclosed in Part I, Item 1A of Applied’s 2018 Form 10-K.
The industries that Applied serves can be volatile and difficult to predict.
During periods of decreasing demand, Applied must reduce costs and align its cost structure with prevailing market conditions; effectively manage its supply chain; and motivate and retain key employees.
If Applied does not effectively manage these challenges during periods of changing demand, its business performance and results of operations may be adversely impacted.


