fls.txt



item1.txt
Amounts as of April 28, 2019 are unaudited.
In the opinion of management, the unaudited interim consolidated condensed financial statements of Applied Materials, Inc. and its subsidiaries (Applied or the Company) included herein have been prepared on a basis consistent with the October 28, 2018 audited consolidated financial statements and include all material adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary to fairly present the information set forth therein.
These unaudited interim consolidated condensed financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Applied’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 28, 2018 (2018 Form 10-K).
Applied’s fiscal year ends on the last Sunday in October of each year.
All financial statements and disclosures have been recast to comply with this new guidance.
Applied adopted various amended guidance during the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Applied maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments.
This allowance is based on historical experience, credit evaluations, specific customer collection history and any customer-specific issues Applied has identified.
Taxes collected from customers and remitted to governmental authorities are presented on a net basis in the accompanying Consolidated Condensed Statements of Operations.
Applied’s warranty obligation is affected by product and component failure rates, material usage and labor costs incurred in correcting product failures during the warranty period.
If actual warranty costs differ substantially from Applied’s estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be required.
Applied receives payment at the inception of the contract and recognizes revenue ratably over the extended warranty coverage period, as the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits of the extended warranty.
Applied sells manufacturing equipment, services, and spare parts directly to its customers in the semiconductor, display, and related industries.
Judgment is used to determine whether multiple promised goods or services in a contract should be accounted for separately or as a group.
The transaction price for Applied’s contracts with customers may include fixed and variable consideration.
Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations.


item2.txt
These customers may use what they manufacture in their own end products or sell the items to other companies for use in advanced electronic components.
Fiscal 2019 and 2018 each contains 52 weeks, and the first six months of fiscal 2019 and 2018 each contained 26 weeks.
Semiconductor and display manufacturing equipment customers’ investments in new capacity and technology transitions decreased compared to the same period in the prior year.
Foundry and logic spending is expected to increase year-on-year; however, customers are prioritizing spending on longer lead-time equipment not in Applied’s product portfolio.
Applied anticipates its global services business to continue to grow in fiscal 2019.
Gross margin during the three months ended April 28, 2019 and April 29, 2018 included $22 million and $21 million of share-based compensation expense, respectively.
Development cycles range from 12 to 36 months depending on whether the product is an enhancement of an existing product, which typically has a shorter development cycle, or a new product, which typically has a longer development cycle.
Marketing and selling expenses increased slightly in the three and six months ended April 28, 2019 compared to the same periods in fiscal 2018 primarily due to additional headcount, partially offset by lower variable compensation expenses.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
The information set forth under “Legal Matters” in Note 13 in Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements is incorporated herein by reference.
The risk factors set forth below include any material changes to, and supersede the description of, the risk factors disclosed in Part I, Item 1A of Applied’s 2018 Form 10-K.
During periods of decreasing demand, Applied must reduce costs and align its cost structure with prevailing market conditions; effectively manage its supply chain; and motivate and retain key employees.
If Applied does not effectively manage these challenges during periods of changing demand, its business performance and results of operations may be adversely impacted.
Uncertain global economic and business conditions, along with uncertainties and volatility in the financial markets, national debt and fiscal concerns in various regions, pose challenges to the industries in which Applied operates.


