fls.txt



item1.txt
These unaudited interim consolidated condensed financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Applied’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 28, 2018 (2018 Form 10-K).
Applied’s fiscal year ends on the last Sunday in October of each year.
Fiscal 2019 and 2018 contain 52 weeks each, and the first nine months of fiscal 2019 and 2018 each contained 39 weeks.
Applied maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments.
Taxes collected from customers and remitted to governmental authorities are presented on a net basis in the accompanying Consolidated Condensed Statements of Operations.
Estimated warranty costs are determined by analyzing specific product, current and historical configuration statistics and regional warranty support costs.
If actual warranty costs differ substantially from Applied’s estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be required.
Applied receives payment at the inception of the contract and recognizes revenue ratably over the extended warranty coverage period, as the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits of the extended warranty.
Judgment is used to determine whether multiple promised goods or services in a contract should be accounted for separately or as a group.
Applied includes variable consideration in the transaction price to the extent that it is probable that a significant reversal of revenue will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is subsequently resolved.
Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations.
A contract’s transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation identified within the contract.
Applied generally estimates the standalone selling price of a distinct performance obligation based on historical cost plus an appropriate margin.
Recognizing the revenue as performance obligations are satisfied.
Generally, the majority of payments are due within a certain number of days from shipment of goods or performance of service.
The remainder is typically due upon customer technical acceptance.


item2.txt
Item 2.
These customers may use what they manufacture in their own end products or sell the items to other companies for use in advanced electronic components.
Fiscal 2019 and 2018 contain 52 weeks each, and the first nine months of fiscal 2019 and 2018 each contained 39 weeks.
Semiconductor and display manufacturing equipment customers’ investments in new capacity and technology transitions decreased compared to the same period in the prior year.
Applied continued to see growth in demand for services and continued demand for spares from customers as compared to the same period in the prior year.
While Applied anticipates major technology trends to drive long-term growth in the semiconductor industry, the softening in demand that began during the second half of 2018 is expected to continue through 2019, led primarily by lower spending from memory customers.
Applied anticipates its global services business to continue to grow in fiscal 2019.
Gross margin during the nine months ended July 28, 2019 and July 29, 2018 included $67 million and $65 million of share-based compensation expense, respectively.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
The information set forth under “Legal Matters” in Note 14 in Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements is incorporated herein by reference.
The risk factors set forth below include any material changes to, and supersede the description of, the risk factors disclosed in Part I, Item 1A of Applied’s 2018 Form 10-K.
If Applied does not effectively manage these challenges during periods of changing demand, its business performance and results of operations may be adversely impacted.
Applied is exposed to the risks of operating a global business.
•fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates, including the relative strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar against the Japanese yen, euro, Taiwanese dollar, Israeli shekel, Chinese yuan or Singapore dollar; •uncertainties with respect to economic growth rates in various countries, including for the manufacture and sale of semiconductors and displays in the developing economies of certain countries.


