fls.txt



item1.txt
Amounts as of July 29, 2018 are unaudited.
These unaudited interim consolidated condensed financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Applied’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 29, 2017 (2017 Form 10-K).
Applied’s fiscal year ends on the last Sunday in October of each year.
Fiscal 2018 and 2017 each contain 52 weeks, and the first nine months of fiscal 2018 and 2017 each contained 39 weeks.
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation.
Inventory Measurement.
This guidance does not apply to inventory that is measured using last-in, first out (LIFO) or the retail inventory method but applies to all other inventory including those measured using first-in, first-out (FIFO) or the average cost method.
Applied adopted this authoritative guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 prospectively to the measurement of inventory after the effective date.
Share-Based Compensation.
In March 2016, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that simplifies several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including forfeitures, income tax, and classification on the statement of cash flows.
In the nine months ended July 29, 2018, Applied recognized an excess tax benefit of $51 million in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Operations.
The stranded income tax effects related to the Tax Act were reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings in the consolidated statements of stockholders' equity as of July 29, 2018.
In August 2017, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that modifies the recognition and presentation of hedge accounting to better align an entity’s risk management strategies and financial reporting for hedging relationships.
The authoritative guidance expands the application of hedge accounting for non-financial and financial risk components and eases certain hedge effectiveness assessment requirements.
Goodwill Impairment.


item2.txt
Financial information as of July 29, 2018 should be read in conjunction with the financial statements for the fiscal year ended October 29, 2017 contained in the Company’s Form 10-K filed December 15, 2017.
Fiscal 2018 and 2017 each contains 52 weeks, and the first nine months of fiscal 2018 and 2017 each contained 39 weeks.
Logic and dynamic random-access memory (DRAM) demand increased, and NAND demand remained strong reflecting increasing memory requirements in smartphones and servers.
The decrease in net sales to customers in Korea for the three months ended July 29, 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year primarily reflected decrease in investments in semiconductor and display manufacturing equipment.
Gross margin during the three months ended July 29, 2018 and July 30, 2017 included $22 million and $18 million of share-based compensation expense, respectively.
Applied’s future operating results depend to a considerable extent on its ability to maintain a competitive advantage in the equipment and service products it provides.
Development cycles range from 12 to 36 months depending on whether the product is an enhancement of an existing product, which typically has a shorter development cycle, or a new product, which typically has a longer development cycle.
Most of Applied’s existing products resulted from internal development activities and innovations involving new technologies, materials and processes.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
The information set forth under “Legal Matters” in Note 13 in Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements is incorporated herein by reference.
The risk factors set forth below include any material changes to, and supersede the description of, the risk factors disclosed in Part I, Item 1A of Applied’s 2017 Form 10-K.
During periods of decreasing demand, Applied must reduce costs and align its cost structure with prevailing market conditions; effectively manage its supply chain; and motivate and retain key employees.
If Applied does not effectively manage these challenges during periods of changing demand, its business performance and results of operations may be adversely impacted.
Markets for semiconductors and displays depend largely on business and consumer spending and demand for electronic products.


