Item 4: Controls and Procedures
This quarterly report on Form 10-Q includes the certifications of the Company's Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) required by Rule 13a-14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act).
See Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2.
This Item 4 includes information concerning the controls and control evaluations referred to in those certifications.
Based on the performance of procedures by management, designed to ensure the reliability of financial reporting, management believes that the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements fairly present, in all material respects, the Company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows as of the dates, and for the periods presented.
Disclosure Controls and Procedures
Disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) promulgated under the Exchange Act) are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports filed or submitted under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms and that such information is accumulated and communicated to management, including the CEO and CFO as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures.
In connection with the preparation of this quarterly report on Form 10-Q, the Company's management, under the supervision and with the participation of the CEO and CFO, conducted an evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report.
Based on this evaluation, the CEO and CFO have concluded that such disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of June 30, 2018.
Change in Internal Controls
During the quarter ended June 30, 2018, there have been no changes in the Company's internal control over financial reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, its internal control over financial reporting.
DIEBOLD NIXDORF, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
FORM 10-Q as of June 30, 2018
Item 4: Mine Safety Disclosures
Not applicable.
Item 5: Other Information
None.
DIEBOLD NIXDORF, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
FORM 10-Q as of June 30, 2018
Item 6: Exhibits
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
