Item 3: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

On August 15, 2016, the Company designated its €350.0 euro-denominated Term Loan B Facility as a net investment hedge of its investments in certain subsidiaries that use the euro as their functional currency in order to reduce volatility in stockholders' equity caused by the changes in foreign currency exchange rates of the euro with respect to the U.S. dollar.
Effectiveness is assessed at least quarterly by confirming that the respective designated net investments' net equity balances at the beginning of any period collectively continues to equal or exceed the balance outstanding on the Company's euro-denominated term loan.
Changes in value that are deemed effective are accumulated in AOCI.
When the respective net investments are sold or substantially liquidated, the balance of the cumulative translation adjustment in AOCI will be reclassified into earnings.
The net gain (loss) recognized in AOCI on net investment hedge foreign currency borrowings was $(5.8) and $(6.1) for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
On March 30, 2017, the Company de-designated €130.6 of its euro-denominated Term Loan B Facility and on May 9, 2017, the Company designated an additional €66.8 of its euro-denominated Term Loan B Facility as a result of its repricing described under note 11.
On September 21, 2017, the Company de-designated €100.0 of its euro-denominated Term Loan B Facility.
Refer to the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 for a discussion of market risk exposures.
There have been no material changes in this information since December 31, 2017.
DIEBOLD NIXDORF, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

FORM 10-Q as of March 31, 2018


Item 4: Controls and Procedures

This quarterly report on Form 10-Q includes the certifications of the Company's Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) required by Rule 13a-14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act).
See Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2.
This Item 4 includes information concerning the controls and control evaluations referred to in those certifications.
Based on the performance of procedures by management, designed to ensure the reliability of financial reporting, management believes that the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements fairly present, in all material respects, the Company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows as of the dates, and for the periods presented.
Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) promulgated under the Exchange Act) are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports filed or submitted under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms and that such information is accumulated and communicated to management, including the CEO and CFO as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures.
In connection with the preparation of this quarterly report on Form 10-Q, the Company's management, under the supervision and with the participation of the CEO and CFO, conducted an evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report.
Based on this evaluation, the CEO and CFO have concluded that such disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of March 31, 2018.
Change in Internal Controls

During the quarter ended March 31, 2018, there have been no changes in the Company's internal control over financial reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, its internal control over financial reporting.
DIEBOLD NIXDORF, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

FORM 10-Q as of March 31, 2018


Part II – Other Information

Item 1: Legal Proceedings

At March 31, 2018, the Company was a party to several lawsuits that were incurred in the normal course of business, which neither individually nor in the aggregate are considered material by management in relation to the Company’s financial position or results of operations.
In management’s opinion, the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements would not be materially affected by the outcome of these legal proceedings, commitments or asserted claims.
For more information regarding legal proceedings, please refer to Part I, Item 3 of the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
There have been no material developments with respect to the legal proceedings reported in the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Item 1A: Risk Factors

Refer to the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
There has been no material change to this information since December 31, 2017.
Item 2: Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds





Item 3: Defaults Upon Senior Securities

None.
