Item 4: Controls and Procedures
This quarterly report on Form 10-Q includes the certifications of the Company's Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) required by Rule 13a-14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act).
See Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2.
This Item 4 includes information concerning the controls and control evaluations referred to in those certifications.
Based on the performance of procedures by management, designed to ensure the reliability of financial reporting, management believes that the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements fairly present, in all material respects, the Company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows as of the dates, and for the periods presented.
Disclosure Controls and Procedures
Disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) promulgated under the Exchange Act) are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports filed or submitted under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms and that such information is accumulated and communicated to management, including the CEO and CFO as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures.
In connection with the preparation of this quarterly report on Form 10-Q, the Company's management, under the supervision and with the participation of the CEO and CFO, conducted an evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report.
Based on this evaluation, the CEO and CFO have concluded that such disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of September 30, 2018.
Change in Internal Controls
During the quarter ended September 30, 2018, there have been no changes in the Company's internal control over financial reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, its internal control over financial reporting.
DIEBOLD NIXDORF, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
FORM 10-Q as of September 30, 2018
Item 4: Mine Safety Disclosures
Not applicable.
DIEBOLD NIXDORF, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
FORM 10-Q as of September 30, 2018
Item 5: Other Information
Adoption of Quarterly Cash Bonus Program
On November 7, 2018, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company adopted a new cash bonus program in which each of the Chief Executive Officer, Interim Chief Financial Officer, Senior Vice President - Services, Senior Vice President - Systems, Senior Vice President - Software, Senior Vice President - Eurasia Banking, Senior Vice President - Americas Banking, Senior Vice President - Retail, Senior Vice President - Strategy, Chief People Officer, Chief Legal Officer and other leaders of the Company will participate.
Under the new program, on a quarterly basis the Company will assess and reward, if warranted, each participant’s role in and contribution to the Company’s overall transformation and strategy for the past quarter.
In the case of the named executive officers, the Compensation Committee will perform that quarterly evaluation and in its discretion, award a cash bonus in an amount up to 25 percent of 150 percent of the executive’s annual base salary.
Other participants in the program will be evaluated by the Chief Executive Officer and will have the opportunity to receive bonuses at varying amounts.
This program is effective immediately and will continue on a quarterly basis at the Compensation Committee’s discretion.
Amendment to Mr. Olaf Heyden’s Employment Agreement
On November 7, 2018, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company approved an amendment to Mr. Olaf Heyden’s employment agreement extending the term to August 31, 2022.
Mr. Heyden’s employment agreement was previously scheduled to expire on February 28, 2019.
Modification of Amended and Restated Senior Leadership Severance Plan
Effective November 7, 2018, the Company clarified certain provisions of its Amended and Restated Senior Leadership Severance Plan (the “Plan”) to specify that the Plan shall continue to apply to eligible executives after the expiration of the Plan.
The Plan generally provides severance benefits to executives who are involuntarily terminated other than for cause or upon certain constructive terminations, in each case not in connection with a change in control.
The Plan is filed as Exhibit 10.4 to this Quarterly Report.
DIEBOLD NIXDORF, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
FORM 10-Q as of September 30, 2018
Item 6: Exhibits
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
