Part II – Other Information
Item 1: Legal Proceedings
At September 30, 2018, the Company was a party to several lawsuits that were incurred in the normal course of business, which neither individually nor in the aggregate are considered material by management in relation to the Company’s financial position or results of operations.
In management’s opinion, the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements would not be materially affected by the outcome of these legal proceedings, commitments or asserted claims.
For more information regarding legal proceedings, please refer to Part I, Item 3 of the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
There have been no material developments with respect to the legal proceedings reported in the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Item 1A: Risk Factors
Refer to the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
There has been no material change to this information since December 31, 2017.
Item 2: Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
Item 3: Defaults Upon Senior Securities
None.
Item 4: Mine Safety Disclosures
Not applicable.
DIEBOLD NIXDORF, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
FORM 10-Q as of September 30, 2018
Item 5: Other Information
Adoption of Quarterly Cash Bonus Program
On November 7, 2018, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company adopted a new cash bonus program in which each of the Chief Executive Officer, Interim Chief Financial Officer, Senior Vice President - Services, Senior Vice President - Systems, Senior Vice President - Software, Senior Vice President - Eurasia Banking, Senior Vice President - Americas Banking, Senior Vice President - Retail, Senior Vice President - Strategy, Chief People Officer, Chief Legal Officer and other leaders of the Company will participate.
Under the new program, on a quarterly basis the Company will assess and reward, if warranted, each participant’s role in and contribution to the Company’s overall transformation and strategy for the past quarter.
In the case of the named executive officers, the Compensation Committee will perform that quarterly evaluation and in its discretion, award a cash bonus in an amount up to 25 percent of 150 percent of the executive’s annual base salary.
Other participants in the program will be evaluated by the Chief Executive Officer and will have the opportunity to receive bonuses at varying amounts.
This program is effective immediately and will continue on a quarterly basis at the Compensation Committee’s discretion.
Amendment to Mr. Olaf Heyden’s Employment Agreement
On November 7, 2018, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company approved an amendment to Mr. Olaf Heyden’s employment agreement extending the term to August 31, 2022.
Mr. Heyden’s employment agreement was previously scheduled to expire on February 28, 2019.
Modification of Amended and Restated Senior Leadership Severance Plan
Effective November 7, 2018, the Company clarified certain provisions of its Amended and Restated Senior Leadership Severance Plan (the “Plan”) to specify that the Plan shall continue to apply to eligible executives after the expiration of the Plan.
The Plan generally provides severance benefits to executives who are involuntarily terminated other than for cause or upon certain constructive terminations, in each case not in connection with a change in control.
The Plan is filed as Exhibit 10.4 to this Quarterly Report.
DIEBOLD NIXDORF, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
FORM 10-Q as of September 30, 2018
Item 6: Exhibits
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
