item1.txt
The Company’s operating cycle may be greater than one year and is measured by the average time intervening between the inception and the completion of contracts.
The Company recognized a $25 million provision for inventory within cost of revenues during the three and nine months ended November 2, 2018 related to firm purchase commitments on a firm-fixed price program.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which supersedes the revenue recognition requirements and some cost guidance included in the Accounting Standards Codification (ASC).
The ASU also requires additional disclosures about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customer contracts, including significant judgments and changes in judgments, and assets recognized from costs incurred to obtain or fulfill a contract.
Under this method, the Company recognized the cumulative effect of adoption as an adjustment to its opening balance of retained earnings on February 3, 2018.
Under the new standard, the Company continues to recognize revenue over time as services are rendered to fulfill its contractual obligations; however, the Company generally accounts for customer option period exercises (renewals) and service contract modifications prospectively, instead of as a cumulative adjustment to revenue under a single unit of accounting.
The Company no longer defers the recognition of revenues and costs associated with significant upfront material acquisitions on programs previously accounted for using the efforts-expended method of percentage of completion.
Under the new standard, the Company recognizes revenue on an adjusted cost-to-cost basis, where the amount of revenue that is recognized is equal to the amount of costs incurred plus profit based on the adjusted cost input measure of progress.
The Company recognizes revenue when, or as, we satisfy our performance obligations under a contract.
The majority of the Company’s contracts contain a single performance obligation involving a significant integration of various activities that are performed together to deliver a combined service or solution.
The Company selects the appropriate measure of progress for revenue recognition based on the nature of the performance obligation, contract type and other pertinent contract terms.
Deliverable-based performance obligations are satisfied over time when the Company’s performance creates or enhances an asset that is controlled by the customer, or when the Company’s performance creates an asset that is customized to the customer’s specifications and the Company has a right to payment, including profit, for work performed to date.
For recurring services performance obligations, the Company measures progress using either a cost input measure (cost-to-cost), a time-elapsed output measure, or the as-invoiced practical expedient.
A cost input measure typically is applied to the Company’s cost-reimbursable contracts.
For fixed-price contracts, a time-elapsed output measure is applied to fixed consideration, such that revenue is recognized ratably over the period of performance.
For deliverable-based performance obligations satisfied over time, the Company recognizes revenue using a cost input measure of progress (cost-to-cost), regardless of contract type.
Revenue is recognized based on the ratio of costs incurred to total estimated costs at completion, except for certain contracts for which the costs associated with significant materials or hardware procurements are excluded from the measure of progress and revenue is recognized on an adjusted cost-to-cost basis.
For performance obligations in which the Company does not transfer control over time, we recognize revenue at the point-in-time when the customer obtains control of the related asset, usually at the time of shipment or upon delivery.
The Company provides for anticipated losses on contracts with the U.S. government by recording an expense for the total expected loss during the period in which the losses are first determined.
For contracts with multiple performance obligations, the Company allocates transaction price to each performance obligation based on the relative standalone selling price of each distinct performance obligation within the contract.
Because the Company typically provides customized services and solutions that are specific to a single customer’s requirements, standalone selling price is most often estimated based on expected costs plus a reasonable profit margin.
The changes in the Company's contract assets and contract liabilities during the current period primarily results from the timing differences between the Company's performance, invoicing and customer payments.
During the nine months ended November 2, 2018, the Company recognized revenues of $10 million relating to amounts that were included in the opening balance of contract liabilities - current as of February 3, 2018.
were recognized for the three months ended November 2, 2018, relating to amounts that were included in the opening balance of contract liabilities - current as of February 3, 2018.
The Company defers fulfillment costs incurred to transfer service to a customer prior to the establishment of a contract provided recovery is probable.
The Company performs periodic reviews to assess the recoverability of deferred contract transition and setup costs.
The carrying amount of the asset is compared to the remaining amount of consideration the Company expects to receive for the services to which the asset relates, less the costs that relate directly to providing those services that have not yet been recognized.
The Company expects to recognize revenue on approximately 65% of the remaining performance obligations over the next 12 months and approximately 85% over the next 24 months, with the remaining recognized thereafter.
The Company amended its credit agreement to provide for a new five-year senior secured $1.1 billion term loan facility to be funded in connection with the Merger, see Note 7.
The estimated transaction value is $2.1 billion based on the Company's per share closing price of $69.39 on November 2, 2018 including the repayment of Engility's net debt.
During the nine months ended November 2, 2018, the Company granted certain employees 0.1 million stock options with a weighted-average exercise price and weighted-average grant date fair value of $85.62 and $19.48, respectively.
During the nine months ended November 2, 2018, the Company granted certain employees 0.4 million RSUs with a weighted-average grant date fair value of $85.01, which will vest ratably on each anniversary of the grant date over a four-year period.
During the nine months ended November 2, 2018, the Company granted to certain employees 0.1 million performance share awards with a grant date fair value of $85.31 per award.
These awards will cliff vest at the end of the third fiscal year following the grant date, subject to meeting the minimum service requirements and the achievement of certain annual and cumulative financial metrics of the Company’s performance, with the number of shares ultimately issued, if any, ranging up to 150% of the specified target shares.
The Company's effective tax rate was lower for the three and nine months ended November 2, 2018 compared to the prior year period due to the lower statutory federal income tax rate, increased research tax credits and hurricane disaster zone credits, partially offset by lower excess tax benefits related to employee share-based compensation, the repeal of the manufacturer’s deduction and the changes in deductibility of executive compensation due to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Tax Act").
During the three months ended May 4, 2018, the Company incurred and paid $2 million in fees associated with the Second Amendment, including $1 million of deferred financing fees.
During the three months ended November 2, 2018, the Company incurred $17 million of debt issue costs associated with the Third Amended Credit Agreement.
The Company recognized $5 million in expenses associated with the Third Amended Credit Agreement, which is included in interest expense and includes a $4 million loss on extinguishment of debt.
Beginning in fiscal 2018, the Company entered into contracts with various vendors for long-lead time materials that would be necessary to complete the low-rate initial production (LRIP) phase of the program, including portions of the LRIP phase which had not yet been awarded.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company received a $6 million distribution from escrow to settle a claim, which was recognized as a reduction to selling, general, and administrative costs.
The Company is routinely subject to investigations and reviews relating to compliance with various laws and regulations with respect, in particular, to its role as a contractor to federal, state and local government customers and in connection with performing services in countries outside of the United States.
Due to the Company’s reliance on government contracts, adverse findings could also have a material impact on the Company’s business, including its financial position, results of operations and cash flows.
Although the Company has recorded contract revenues subsequent to and including fiscal 2014 based on an estimate of costs that the Company believes will be approved on final audit, the Company does not know the outcome of any ongoing or future audits.
The Company has recorded reserves for estimated net amounts to be refunded to customers for potential adjustments for indirect cost audits and compliance with Cost Accounting Standards, which include indemnification obligations owing to former Parent for periods prior to the Distribution Date.
As of November 2, 2018, the Company has recorded a total liability of $43 million for estimated net amounts to be refunded to customers for potential adjustments from audits of contract costs, which is presented in accounts payable and accrued liabilities on the condensed and consolidated balance sheets.


item2.txt
In fiscal 2018, we generated greater than 95% of our revenues from contracts with the U.S. government, including subcontracts on which we perform.
An omnibus appropriations measure increased discretionary federal spending by $143 billion above previous spending caps for government fiscal year (GFY) 2018, providing additional business opportunities for the Company.
For performance obligations satisfied over time, updates to estimates are recognized on inception-to-date activity, during the period of adjustment, resulting in either a favorable or unfavorable impact to operating income.
Revenues increased $32 million or 2.8% for the three months ended November 2, 2018 as compared to the same period in the prior year due to newly awarded contracts ($54 million), which includes information technology (IT) integration contracts supporting state and local customers, and increased orders in our supply chain portfolio ($24 million).
These increases were partially offset by completion of contracts and other net decreases across our portfolio ($46 million).
Revenues increased $141 million or 4.2% for the nine months ended November 2, 2018 as compared to the same period in the prior year due to revenue on new contracts primarily supporting NASA, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and state and local customers ($128 million), as well as increased orders in our supply chain portfolio ($120 million).
Cost of revenues increased $12 million for the three months ended November 2, 2018 as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to an increase in revenue volume.
Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues decreased from 90.5% in the prior year quarter to 89.0%, driven by improved performance across our portfolio ($28 million), inclusive of newly awarded contracts, and higher net favorable changes in estimates related to performance obligations satisfied over time ($14 million).
Cost of revenues increased $103 million for the nine months ended November 2, 2018 as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to an increase in revenue volume.
Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues decreased from 90.9% in the prior year period to 90.1%, driven by improved contract performance to include the effect of our restructuring efforts in fiscal 2018 ($35 million), and higher net favorable changes in estimates related to performance obligations satisfied over time ($15 million).
Operating income as a percentage of revenues of 6.2% for the three months ended November 2, 2018 was consistent with 6.3% in the comparable prior year period, due to improved performance across our portfolio, higher net favorable changes in estimates related to performance obligations satisfied over time, offset by an increase in our inventory provision and costs associated with the acquisition and integration of Engility ($14 million).
Operating income as a percentage of revenues increased to 6.1% for the nine months ended November 2, 2018 from 5.8% in the comparable prior year period primarily due to improved performance across our portfolio and the realization of cost efficiencies resulting from our restructuring activities in fiscal 2018, partially offset by an increase in our inventory provision and costs associated with the acquisition and integration of Engility ($14 million).
Net income for the nine months ended November 2, 2018 increased $18 million as compared to the same period in the prior year due to higher operating income and a lower effective tax rate, partially offset by expenses associated with the debt refinancing activities in the current year.
Adjusted EBITDA for the three months ended November 2, 2018 increased to 8.3% of revenues from 7.4% of revenues for the prior year driven by improved performance across our portfolio and higher net favorable changes in estimates related to performance obligations satisfied over time, partially offset by an increase in our inventory provision.
Adjusted EBITDA for the nine months ended November 2, 2018 increased to 7.4% of revenues from 6.9% of revenues for the prior year, driven by improved performance across our portfolio and the realization of cost efficiencies resulting from our restructuring activities in fiscal 2018, and higher net favorable changes in estimates related to performance obligations satisfied over time, partially offset by an increase in our inventory provision.
Net bookings represent the estimated amount of revenues to be earned in the future from funded and negotiated unfunded contract awards that were received during the period, net of adjustments to estimates on previously awarded contracts.
Backlog represents the estimated amount of future revenues to be recognized under negotiated contracts as work is performed.
We do not include in backlog estimates of revenues to be derived from IDIQ contracts, but rather record backlog and bookings when task orders are awarded on these contracts.
Funded backlog for contracts with government agencies primarily represents estimated amounts of revenue to be earned in the future from contracts for which funding is appropriated less revenues previously recognized on these contracts.
It does not include the unfunded portion of contracts in which funding is incrementally appropriated or authorized on a quarterly or annual basis by the U.S. government and other customers even though the contract may call for performance over a number of years.
Funded backlog for contracts with non-government customers represents the estimated value on contracts, which may cover multiple future years, under which we are obligated to perform, less revenues previously recognized on these contracts.
Negotiated unfunded backlog represents estimated amounts of revenue to be earned in the future from negotiated contracts for which funding has not been appropriated or otherwise authorized and from unexercised priced contract options.
Negotiated unfunded backlog does not include any estimate of future potential task orders expected to be awarded under IDIQ, GSA Schedules or other master agreement contract vehicles.
Our contract mix for the nine months ended November 2, 2018 reflects an increase in cost reimbursement type contracts due to newly awarded contracts supporting federal civilian agencies and a change in contract type on a significant contract supporting the Department of Defense.
Refer to “Results of Operations” above for a discussion of the changes in cash provided by operating activities between the nine months ended November 2, 2018 and the comparable prior year period.
Cash used in financing activities for the nine months ended November 2, 2018 decreased compared to the prior year period primarily due to an increase in proceeds from borrowings and a decrease in stock repurchased and retired or withheld for taxes on equity awards, partially offset by an increase in principal payments on borrowings and debt issuance costs.


item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
We have provided information about legal proceedings in which we are involved in our fiscal 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we have provided an update to this information in Note 10 of the notes to the condensed and consolidated financial statements contained within this report.
Additional information regarding such investigations and reviews is included in our fiscal 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we have also updated this information in Note 10 of the notes to the condensed and consolidated financial statements contained within this report, under the heading “Government Investigations, Audits and Reviews.”
The price of SAIC common shares at the closing of the merger may vary from the price on the date the Merger Agreement was executed and the dates of the respective special meetings of our stockholders and Engility’s stockholders.
As a result, the market value of the merger consideration may also vary.
We and Engility will incur direct and indirect costs as a result of the Merger.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
Whether repurchases are made and the timing and amount of repurchases depend on a variety of factors including market conditions, our capital position, internal cash generation and other factors.


