item1.txt
Each of the Company’s three customer facing operating segments is focused on providing the Company’s comprehensive technical and enterprise IT service offerings to one or more agencies of the U.S. federal government.
The results of operations of FSA are included in the Company's condensed and consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income.
The Company’s operating cycle may be greater than one year and is measured by the average time intervening between the inception and the completion of contracts.
The Company’s fixed interest rate swaps are considered over-the-counter derivatives, and fair value is calculated using a standard pricing model for interest rate swaps with contractual terms for maturities, amortization and interest rates.
As of August 2, 2019 and February 1, 2019, the fair value of our investments total $25 million and $4 million, respectively, and was included in other assets on the condensed and consolidated balance sheets.
The Company elected certain practical expedients provided under the standard, including the package of practical expedients, which allows entities not to reassess whether existing contracts are or contain leases.
As a result of the adoption of the new standard, on February 2, 2019, the Company recognized approximately $169 million of right of use operating assets and $187 million of operating lease liabilities, of which $140 million was noncurrent.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this standard on its financial statements.
In addition, revenues were $5 million and $14 million higher for the three and six months ended August 2, 2019, respectively, due to net revenue recognized from performance obligations satisfied in prior periods.
During the six months ended August 2, 2019 and August 3, 2018, the Company recognized revenues of $19 million and $9 million relating to amounts that were included in the opening balance of contract liabilities as of February 1, 2019 and February 3, 2018, respectively.
$6 million in revenues were recognized for the three months ended August 2, 2019, relating to amounts that were included in the opening balance of contract liabilities - current as of February 1, 2019.
On January 14, 2019, the Company completed the acquisition of Engility Holdings, Inc., a leading provider of integrated solutions and services supporting U.S. government customers in the defense, federal civilian, and intelligence and space communities.
The Company inherited Engility's historical tax basis in deductible goodwill, certain other intangible assets, and net operating loss carryforwards.
During the six months ended August 2, 2019, the Company granted certain employees 0.1 million stock options with a weighted-average exercise price and weighted-average grant date fair value of $75.43 and $16.82, respectively.
During the six months ended August 2, 2019, the Company granted to certain employees 0.1 million performance share awards with a grant date fair value of $79.04 per award.
These awards will cliff vest at the end of the third fiscal year following the grant date, subject to meeting the minimum service requirements and the achievement of certain annual and cumulative financial metrics of the Company’s performance, with the number of shares ultimately issued, if any, ranging up to 150% of the specified target shares.
The Company's effective income tax rate was 23.3% and 21.6% for the three and six months ended August 2, 2019, respectively, and 23.1% and 17.2% for the three and six months ended August 3, 2018, respectively.
The Company's effective tax rate was higher for the six months ended August 2, 2019 compared to the prior year period due principally to lower excess tax benefits related to employee share-based compensation.
Subsequent to quarter end, the Company repaid $50 million on the Revolving Credit Facility.
As of August 2, 2019, the Company was in compliance with the covenants under its Credit Facility.
The following table presents the changes in accumulated other comprehensive loss attributable to the Company’s fixed interest rate swap cash flow hedges that are discussed in Note 8.
The Company occupies most of its facilities under operating leases.
Effective upon the adoption of ASU 2016-02, the Company recognizes a right of use (ROU) asset and a lease liability upon the commencement of its operating leases.
The initial lease liability is equal to the future fixed minimum lease payments discounted using the Company’s incremental borrowing rate, on a secured basis.
The lease term includes option renewal periods and early termination payments when it is reasonably certain that the Company will exercise those rights.
For its facility leases, the Company combines and accounts for lease and non-lease components together as a single component.
The Company does not recognize lease liabilities and ROU assets for facility leases with original terms of 12 months or less.
As of August 2, 2019, the Company has rental commitments of $1 million for facility leases that have not yet commenced.
Beginning in fiscal 2018, the Company entered into contracts with various vendors for long-lead time materials that would be necessary to complete the low-rate initial production (LRIP) phase of the program, including portions of the LRIP phase which had not yet been awarded.
The Company is routinely subject to investigations and reviews relating to compliance with various laws and regulations with respect, in particular, to its role as a contractor to federal, state and local government customers and in connection with performing services in countries outside of the United States.
Due to the Company’s reliance on government contracts, adverse findings could also have a material impact on the Company’s business, including its financial position, results of operations and cash flows.
The Company has recorded reserves for estimated net amounts to be refunded to customers for potential adjustments for indirect cost audits and compliance with Cost Accounting Standards.
As of August 2, 2019, the Company has recorded a total liability of $68 million for estimated net amounts to be refunded to customers for potential adjustments from audits of contract costs, which is presented in accounts payable and accrued liabilities on the condensed and consolidated balance sheets.
The Company has outstanding obligations relating to letters of credit of $11 million as of August 2, 2019, principally related to guarantees on insurance policies.
The Company also has outstanding obligations relating to surety bonds in the amount of $18 million, principally related to performance and payment bonds on the Company’s contracts.


item2.txt
In fiscal year 2019, we generated greater than 95% of our revenues from contracts with the U.S. government, including subcontracts on which we perform.
Appropriations measures passed in September 2018 and February 2019, when combined, provide full funding for the federal government through the end of government fiscal year (GFY) 2019.
For performance obligations satisfied over time, updates to estimates are recognized on inception-to-date activity, during the period of adjustment, resulting in either a favorable or unfavorable impact to operating income.
Revenues increased $479 million or 43.0% for the three months ended August 2, 2019 as compared to the same period in the prior year due to the acquisition of Engility.
Revenues increased $919 million or 40.1% for the six months ended August 2, 2019 as compared to the same period in the prior year due to the acquisition of Engility.
Adjusting for the impact of acquired revenues, revenues contracted 1.4%, attributable to humanitarian relief materials in the prior year and the effect of acquisition related dis-synergies.
Cost of revenues increased $406 million for the three months ended August 2, 2019 as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to the acquisition of Engility.
Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues decreased from 90.0% in the prior year quarter to 88.4%, as a result of the acquisition of Engility.
Cost of revenues increased $767 million for the six months ended August 2, 2019 as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to the acquisition of Engility.
Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues decreased from 90.7% in the prior year quarter to 88.6%, due to the Engility acquisition and improved performance across our portfolio including higher net favorable changes in estimates related to performance obligations satisfied over time ($15 million).
Operating income as a percentage of revenues of 6.0% for the three months ended August 2, 2019 decreased from 6.6% in the comparable prior year period due to increased intangible asset amortization and acquisition and integration costs related to the acquisition of Engility, partially offset by cost synergies.
Operating income as a percentage of revenues decreased to 5.9% for the six months ended August 2, 2019 from 6.1% in the comparable prior year period primarily due to increased intangible asset amortization and acquisition and integration costs related to the Engility acquisition, partially offset by cost synergies and improved performance across our portfolio.
Net income attributable to common stockholders for the six months ended August 2, 2019 increased $14 million as compared to the same period in the prior year due to higher operating income ($40 million, net of tax), partially offset by higher interest expense and a higher effective tax rate.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $273 million for the six months ended August 2, 2019, an increase of $197 million compared to the prior year, primarily due to cash provided from the operating activities of Engility, strong customer collections across several programs, and customer collections recouped from the U.S. federal government partial shutdown that occurred in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019.
Adjusted EBITDA for the three months ended August 2, 2019 increased to 8.4% of revenues from 7.5% of revenues for the prior year driven by the acquisition of Engility and cost synergies related to the acquisition.
Adjusted EBITDA for the six months ended August 2, 2019 increased to 8.4% of revenues from 7.0% of revenues for the prior year, driven by the acquisition of Engility, cost synergies related to the acquisition and improved performance across our portfolio including higher net favorable changes in estimates related to performance obligations satisfied over time.
Backlog represents the estimated amount of future revenues to be recognized under negotiated contracts as work is performed.
We do not include in backlog estimates of revenues to be derived from IDIQ contracts, but rather record backlog and bookings when task orders are awarded on these contracts.
Funded backlog for contracts with government agencies primarily represents estimated amounts of revenue to be earned in the future from contracts for which funding is appropriated less revenues previously recognized on these contracts.
It does not include the unfunded portion of contracts in which funding is incrementally appropriated or authorized on a quarterly or annual basis by the U.S. government and other customers even though the contract may call for performance over a number of years.
Funded backlog for contracts with non-government customers represents the estimated value on contracts, which may cover multiple future years, under which we are obligated to perform, less revenues previously recognized on these contracts.
Negotiated unfunded backlog represents estimated amounts of revenue to be earned in the future from negotiated contracts for which funding has not been appropriated or otherwise authorized and from unexercised priced contract options.
Negotiated unfunded backlog does not include any estimate of future potential task orders expected to be awarded under IDIQ, GSA Schedules or other master agreement contract vehicles.
Our contract mix for the six months ended August 2, 2019 reflects an increase in cost reimbursement type contracts due the acquisition of Engility, which historically had a higher proportion of cost reimbursement type contracts, and a change in contract type on a significant contract supporting the Department of Defense.
Cost of revenues mix for the three and six months ended August 2, 2019 reflects an increase in labor-related content due to the acquisition of Engility, which historically had a higher proportion of such costs.
Cash used in investing activities for the six months ended August 2, 2019 increased compared to the prior year period due to purchases of marketable securities, partially offset by lower capital expenditures for property, plant, and equipment.


item3.txt
Item 3.
Item 3.


item4.txt
Item 4.
Item 5.
Item 6.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
Defaults Upon Senior Securities
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


