item1.txt
Each of the Company’s three customer facing operating segments is focused on providing the Company’s comprehensive technical and enterprise IT service offerings to one or more agencies of the U.S federal government.
The Company’s operating cycle may be greater than one year and is measured by the average time intervening between the inception and the completion of contracts.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which supersedes the revenue recognition requirements and some cost guidance included in the Accounting Standards Codification (ASC).
The ASU also requires additional disclosures about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customer contracts, including significant judgments and changes in judgments, and assets recognized from costs incurred to obtain or fulfill a contract.
Under this method, the Company recognized the cumulative effect of adoption as an adjustment to its opening balance of retained earnings on February 3, 2018.
In determining the cumulative impact of the adoption the Company applied the provisions of ASC 606 only to contracts that had not yet been completed at the date of adoption.
Under the new standard, the Company continues to recognize revenue over time as services are rendered to fulfill its contractual obligations; however, the Company generally accounts for customer option period exercises (renewals) and service contract modifications prospectively, instead of as a cumulative adjustment to revenue under a single unit of accounting.
Also, under the new standard, award and incentive-based fees generally are recognized during the discrete periods of performance to which they relate as opposed to on a cumulative basis over the contract period.
The Company no longer defers the recognition of revenues and costs associated with significant upfront material acquisitions on programs previously accounted for using the efforts-expended method of percentage of completion.
Under the new standard, the Company recognizes revenue on an adjusted cost-to-cost basis, where the amount of revenue that is recognized is equal to the amount of costs incurred plus profit based on the adjusted cost input measure of progress.
The Company recognizes revenue when, or as, we satisfy our performance obligations under a contract.
A performance obligation is the unit of account for revenue recognition and refers to a promise in a contract to transfer a distinct service or good to the customer.
The majority of the Company’s contracts contain a single performance obligation involving a significant integration of various activities that are performed together to deliver a combined service or solution.
The Company selects the appropriate measure of progress for revenue recognition based on the nature of the performance obligation, contract type and other pertinent contract terms.
Over time performance obligations may involve a series of recurring services, such as network operations and maintenance, operation and program support services, IT outsourcing services, and other IT arrangements where the Company is standing ready to provide support, when-and-if needed.
Deliverable-based performance obligations are satisfied over time when the Company’s performance creates or enhances an asset that is controlled by the customer, or when the Company’s performance creates an asset that is customized to the customer’s specifications and the Company has a right to payment, including profit, for work performed to date.
For recurring services performance obligations, the Company measures progress using either a cost input measure (cost-to-cost), a time-elapsed output measure, or the as-invoiced practical expedient.
A cost input measure typically is applied to the Company’s cost-reimbursable contracts.
For fixed-price contracts, a time-elapsed output measure is applied to fixed consideration, such that revenue is recognized ratably over the period of performance.
Where fixed-price contracts also provide for reimbursement of certain costs, such as travel or other direct costs, consideration may be attributed only to a distinct subset of time within the performance period.
The Company’s time-and-material and fixed price-level of effort contracts generally qualify for the as-invoiced practical expedient.
For deliverable-based performance obligations satisfied over time, the Company recognizes revenue using a cost input measure of progress (cost-to-cost), regardless of contract type.
Revenue is recognized based on the ratio of costs incurred to total estimated costs at completion, except for certain contracts for which the costs associated with significant materials or hardware procurements are excluded from the measure of progress and revenue is recognized on an adjusted cost-to-cost basis.
For performance obligations in which the Company does not transfer control over time, we recognize revenue at the point-in-time when the customer obtains control of the related asset, usually at the time of shipment or upon delivery.
Contract fulfillment costs are expensed as incurred except for certain costs incurred for transition, set-up or other fulfillment activities under contracts, which are capitalized and amortized on a straight-line basis over the expected period of benefit, which generally includes the base contract period of performance and anticipated renewal periods.
The Company provides for anticipated losses on contracts with the U.S. government by recording an expense for the total expected loss during the period in which the losses are first determined.
For contracts with multiple performance obligations, the Company allocates transaction price to each performance obligation based on the relative standalone selling price of each distinct performance obligation within the contract.
Because the Company typically provides customized services and solutions that are specific to a single customer’s requirements, standalone selling price is most often estimated based on expected costs plus a reasonable profit margin.
In addition, revenues for the three months ended May 4, 2018, were $1 million higher due to net revenue recognized from performance obligations satisfied in prior periods.
The Company defers fulfillment costs incurred to transfer service to a customer prior to the establishment of a contract provided recovery is probable.
The Company performs periodic reviews to assess the recoverability of deferred contract transition and setup costs.
The carrying amount of the asset is compared to the remaining amount of consideration the Company expects to receive for the services to which the asset relates, less the costs that relate directly to providing those services that have not yet been recognized.
During the three months ended May 4, 2018, the Company granted certain employees 0.1 million stock options with an exercise price and grant date fair value of $85.31 and $19.27, respectively.
During the three months ended May 4, 2018, the Company granted certain employees 0.3 million RSUs with a weighted-average grant date fair value of $85.26, which will vest ratably on each anniversary of the grant date over a four-year period.
During the three months ended May 4, 2018, the Company granted to certain employees 0.1 million performance share awards with a grant date fair value of $85.31 per award.
These awards will cliff vest at the end of the third fiscal year following the grant date, subject to meeting the minimum service requirements and the achievement of certain annual and cumulative financial metrics of the Company’s performance, with the number of shares ultimately issued, if any, ranging up to 150% of the specified target shares.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company received a $6 million distribution from escrow to settle a claim, which was recognized as a reduction to selling, general, and administrative costs.
The Company is routinely subject to investigations and reviews relating to compliance with various laws and regulations with respect, in particular, to its role as a contractor to federal, state and local government customers and in connection with performing services in countries outside of the United States.
Due to the Company’s reliance on government contracts, adverse findings could also have a material impact on the Company’s business, including its financial position, results of operations and cash flows.
The Company has recorded reserves for estimated net amounts to be refunded to customers for potential adjustments for indirect cost audits and compliance with Cost Accounting Standards, which include indemnification obligations owing to former Parent for periods prior to the Distribution Date.
As of May 4, 2018, the Company has recorded a total liability of $42 million for estimated net amounts to be refunded to customers for potential adjustments from audits of contract costs, which is presented in accounts payable and accrued liabilities on the condensed and consolidated balance sheets.


item2.txt
In fiscal 2018, we generated greater than 95% of our revenues from contracts with the U.S. government, including subcontracts on which we perform.
A recently-passed omnibus appropriations measure increased discretionary federal spending by $143 billion above previous spending caps for government fiscal year (GFY) 2018, providing additional business opportunities for the Company.
The U.S. government has increasingly relied on contracts that are subject to a competitive bidding process (including indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity (IDIQ), U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) schedules and other multi-award contracts) which has resulted in greater competition and increased pricing pressure.
We believe our long-term, trusted customer relationships and deep technical expertise provide us with the sophistication to handle highly complex mission-critical contracts.
For performance obligations satisfied over time, updates to estimates are recognized on inception-to-date activity, during the period of adjustment, resulting in either a favorable or unfavorable impact to operating income.
Revenues increased $72 million or 6.5% for the three months ended May 4, 2018 as compared to the same period in the prior year due to revenue on new contracts primarily supporting NASA and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) ($47 million) and increased orders in our supply chain portfolio ($64 million).
Cost of revenues increased $67 million for the three months ended May 4, 2018 as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to an increase in revenue volume.
Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues increased from 91.3% in the prior year quarter to 91.4%, driven by higher supply chain material content.
Operating income as a percentage of revenues decreased to 5.6% for the three months ended May 4, 2018 from 5.7% in the comparable prior year period, driven by higher supply chain material content which generate lower operating margins.
Operating margins were also impacted by net unfavorable changes in estimates on contracts in both the current quarter and the prior year quarter driven primarily by increased costs on platform integration programs.
Net income for the three months ended May 4, 2018 remained consistent as compared to the same period in the prior year.
EBITDA for the three months ended May 4, 2018 decreased to 6.5% of revenues from 6.6% of revenues for the prior year, driven by higher supply chain material content which generate lower operating margins.
Margins in both the current quarter and the prior year quarter were also impacted by net unfavorable changes in estimates on contracts driven primarily by increased costs on platform integration programs.
Net bookings represent the estimated amount of revenues to be earned in the future from funded and negotiated unfunded contract awards that were received during the period, net of adjustments to estimates on previously awarded contracts.
We calculate net bookings as the period’s ending backlog plus the period’s revenues less the prior period’s ending backlog and initial backlog obtained through acquisitions.
Backlog represents the estimated amount of future revenues to be recognized under negotiated contracts as work is performed.
We do not include in backlog estimates of revenues to be derived from IDIQ contracts, but rather record backlog and bookings when task orders are awarded on these contracts.
Funded backlog for contracts with government agencies primarily represents estimated amounts of revenue to be earned in the future from contracts for which funding is appropriated less revenues previously recognized on these contracts.
It does not include the unfunded portion of contracts in which funding is incrementally appropriated or authorized on a quarterly or annual basis by the U.S. government and other customers even though the contract may call for performance over a number of years.
Funded backlog for contracts with non-government customers represents the estimated value on contracts, which may cover multiple future years, under which we are obligated to perform, less revenues previously recognized on these contracts.
Negotiated unfunded backlog represents estimated amounts of revenue to be earned in the future from negotiated contracts for which funding has not been appropriated or otherwise authorized and from unexercised priced contract options.
Negotiated unfunded backlog does not include any estimate of future potential task orders expected to be awarded under IDIQ, GSA Schedules or other master agreement contract vehicles.
Our contract mix was relatively consistent for the three months ended May 4, 2018 compared to the prior year comparable period.
Cost of revenues mix for the three months ended May 4, 2018 reflects an increase in supply chain material content.
Although we believe that the financing arrangements in place will permit us to finance our operations on acceptable terms and conditions for at least the next year, our future access to, and the availability of financing on acceptable terms and conditions will be impacted by many factors (including our credit rating, capital market liquidity and overall economic conditions).
Nevertheless, we believe that our existing cash on hand, generation of future operating cash flows, and access to bank financing and capital markets will provide adequate resources to meet our short-term liquidity and long-term capital needs.
Refer to “Results of Operations” above for a discussion of the changes in cash provided by operating activities between the three months ended May 4, 2018 and the comparable prior year period.
We generate our revenues primarily from long-term contracts in which we provide technical, engineering and enterprise IT services directly for the U.S. government and as a subcontractor with other contractors engaged in work for the U.S. government.
We recognize a significant portion of our revenues using a cost input measure of progress that requires us to rely on the skill and expertise of our engineers, program managers and business management professionals in the many areas of cost estimation.
These estimates of costs can span several years and take into account many factors including the availability, productivity and cost of labor, potential delays in our performance and the level of future indirect cost allocations.
We provide for anticipated losses on long-term production type contracts and service contracts with the U.S. government by recording an expense for the total expected contract loss during the period when the loss is determined.
Contract costs incurred for U.S. government contracts (including allocated indirect costs) are subject to audit and adjustment through negotiations with government representatives.
Revenues on U.S. government contracts have been recorded in amounts that are expected to be realized on final settlement.


item3.txt
Item 3.
Item 3.


item4.txt
Item 4.
Controls and Procedures
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
Defaults Upon Senior Securities
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


