item1.txt
Each of the Company’s three customer facing operating segments is focused on providing the Company’s comprehensive technical and enterprise IT service offerings to one or more agencies of the U.S. federal government.
The results of operations of FSA are included in the Company's condensed and consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income.
The Company’s fixed interest rate swaps are considered over-the-counter derivatives, and fair value is calculated using a standard pricing model for interest rate swaps with contractual terms for maturities, amortization and interest rates.
As of November 1, 2019 and February 1, 2019, the fair value of our investments total $26 million and $4 million, respectively, and was included in other assets on the condensed and consolidated balance sheets.
As a result of the adoption of the new standard, on February 2, 2019, the Company recognized approximately $169 million of right of use operating assets and $184 million of operating lease liabilities, of which $140 million was noncurrent.
Adoption of the standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s condensed and consolidated financial statements.
Other Accounting Standards Updates effective after November 1, 2019 are not expected to have a material effect on the Company’s financial statements.
During the nine months ended November 1, 2019 and November 2, 2018, the Company recognized revenues of $21 million and $10 million relating to amounts that were included in the opening balance of contract liabilities as of February 1, 2019 and February 3, 2018, respectively.
During the three months ended November 1, 2019 and November 2, 2018, the Company recognized revenues of $2 million and $1 million relating to amounts that were included in the opening balance of contract liabilities as of February 1, 2019 and February 3, 2018.
On January 14, 2019, the Company completed the acquisition of Engility Holdings, Inc., a leading provider of integrated solutions and services supporting U.S. government customers in the defense, federal civilian, and intelligence and space communities.
As of November 1, 2019, the Company had not finalized the determination of fair values allocated to various assets and liabilities, including, but not limited to, receivables, other current assets, deferred tax assets, property, plant, and equipment, other accrued liabilities and goodwill.
The allocation of the purchase price is subject to change as the Company continues to obtain and assess relevant information that existed as of the acquisition date, including but not limited to, information pertaining to Engility’s historical government compliance accounting practices, legal proceedings, reserves, income taxes, contracts with customers, and pre-acquisition contingencies.
The Company expects to have sufficient information available to resolve these items by the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, which could potentially result in changes in assets or liabilities on Engility’s opening balance sheet and an adjustment to goodwill.
The Company inherited Engility's historical tax basis in deductible goodwill, certain other intangible assets, and net operating loss carryforwards.
During the nine months ended November 1, 2019, the Company granted certain employees 0.1 million stock options with a weighted-average exercise price and weighted-average grant date fair value of $75.66 and $16.88, respectively.
During the nine months ended November 1, 2019, the Company granted to certain employees 0.1 million performance share awards with a grant date fair value of $79.04 per award.
These awards will cliff vest at the end of the third fiscal year following the grant date, subject to meeting the minimum service requirements and the achievement of certain annual and cumulative financial metrics of the Company’s performance, with the number of shares ultimately issued, if any, ranging up to 150% of the specified target shares.
The Company's effective income tax rate was 23.8% and 22.3% for the three and nine months ended November 1, 2019, respectively, and 17.7% and 17.4% for the three and nine months ended November 2, 2018, respectively.
The Company's effective tax rate was higher for the three months ended November 1, 2019 compared to the prior year period due principally to lower excess tax benefits related to employee share-based compensation.
As of November 1, 2019 and February 1, 2019, the carrying value of the Company’s outstanding debt obligations approximated its fair value.
The fair value of long-term debt is calculated using Level 2 inputs, based on interest rates available for debt with terms and maturities similar to the Company’s term loan facilities.
The following table presents the changes in accumulated other comprehensive loss attributable to the Company’s fixed interest rate swap cash flow hedges that are discussed in Note 8.
The Company occupies most of its facilities under operating leases.
Effective upon the adoption of ASU 2016-02, the Company recognizes a right of use (ROU) asset and a lease liability upon the commencement of its operating leases.
The initial lease liability is equal to the future fixed minimum lease payments discounted using the Company’s incremental borrowing rate, on a secured basis.
The lease term includes option renewal periods and early termination payments when it is reasonably certain that the Company will exercise those rights.
The Company recognizes lease costs on a straight-line basis over the remaining lease term, except for variable lease payments that are expensed in the period in which the obligation for those payments is incurred.
The Company does not recognize lease liabilities and ROU assets for facility leases with original terms of 12 months or less.
As of November 1, 2019, the Company has rental commitments of $20 million for facility leases that have not yet commenced.
Beginning in fiscal 2018, the Company entered into contracts with various vendors for long-lead time materials that would be necessary to complete the low-rate initial production (LRIP) phase of the program, including portions of the LRIP phase which had not yet been awarded.
The Company is routinely subject to investigations and reviews relating to compliance with various laws and regulations with respect, in particular, to its role as a contractor to federal, state and local government customers and in connection with performing services in countries outside of the United States.
Due to the Company’s reliance on government contracts, adverse findings could also have a material impact on the Company’s business, including its financial position, results of operations and cash flows.
The Company has outstanding obligations relating to letters of credit of $10 million as of November 1, 2019, principally related to guarantees on insurance policies.
The Company also has outstanding obligations relating to surety bonds in the amount of $18 million, principally related to performance and payment bonds on the Company’s contracts.


item2.txt
In fiscal year 2019, we generated greater than 95% of our revenues from contracts with the U.S. government, including subcontracts on which we perform.
Appropriations measures passed in September 2018 and February 2019, when combined, provided full funding for the federal government through the end of government fiscal year (GFY) 2019.
The U.S. government has increasingly relied on contracts that are subject to a competitive bidding process (including indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity (IDIQ), U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) schedules, and other multi-award contracts), which has resulted in greater competition and increased pricing pressure.
For performance obligations satisfied over time, updates to estimates are recognized on inception-to-date activity, during the period of adjustment, resulting in either a favorable or unfavorable impact to operating income.
Revenues increased $453 million or 38.5% for the three months ended November 1, 2019 as compared to the same period in the prior year due to the acquisition of Engility.
Adjusting for the impact of acquired revenues, revenues contracted 1.5% due to acquisition related dis-synergies.
Revenues increased $1,372 million or 39.6% for the nine months ended November 1, 2019 as compared to the same period in the prior year due to the acquisition of Engility.
Adjusting for the impact of acquired revenues, revenues contracted 1.4%, primarily attributable to the completion of certain contracts with the U.S. Marine Corps ($69 million) and the effect of acquisition related dis-synergies.
Cost of revenues increased $408 million for the three months ended November 1, 2019 as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to the acquisition of Engility.
Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues increased from 89.0% in the prior year quarter to 89.3%, due to lower current quarter net profit write-ups, partially offset by the acquisition of Engility.
Cost of revenues increased $1,175 million for the nine months ended November 1, 2019 as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to the acquisition of Engility.
Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues decreased from 90.1% in the prior year to 88.9%, due to higher labor content partially driven by the Engility acquisition.
Operating income as a percentage of revenues of 5.8% for the three months ended November 1, 2019 decreased from 6.2% in the comparable prior year period due to increased intangible asset amortization, lower current quarter net profit write-ups and acquisition and integration costs, partially offset by cost synergies.
Operating income as a percentage of revenues decreased to 5.8% for the nine months ended November 1, 2019 from 6.1% in the comparable prior year period primarily due to increased intangible asset amortization and acquisition and integration costs, partially offset by cost synergies.
Net income attributable to common stockholders for the three months ended November 1, 2019 increased $7 million as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to increased operating income ($17 million, net of tax), partially offset by higher interest expense and a higher effective tax rate.
Net income attributable to common stockholders for the nine months ended November 1, 2019 increased $21 million as compared to the same period in the prior year due to higher operating income ($57 million, net of tax), partially offset by higher interest expense and a higher effective tax rate.
Net bookings represent the estimated amount of revenues to be earned in the future from funded and negotiated unfunded contract awards that were received during the period, net of adjustments to estimates on previously awarded contracts.
We calculate net bookings as the period’s ending backlog plus the period’s revenues less the prior period’s ending backlog and initial backlog obtained through acquisitions.
Backlog represents the estimated amount of future revenues to be recognized under negotiated contracts as work is performed.
We do not include in backlog estimates of revenues to be derived from IDIQ contracts, but rather record backlog and bookings when task orders are awarded on these contracts.
Funded backlog for contracts with government agencies primarily represents estimated amounts of revenue to be earned in the future from contracts for which funding is appropriated less revenues previously recognized on these contracts.
It does not include the unfunded portion of contracts in which funding is incrementally appropriated or authorized on a quarterly or annual basis by the U.S. government and other customers even though the contract may call for performance over a number of years.
Funded backlog for contracts with non-government customers represents the estimated value on contracts, which may cover multiple future years, under which we are obligated to perform, less revenues previously recognized on these contracts.
Negotiated unfunded backlog represents estimated amounts of revenue to be earned in the future from negotiated contracts for which funding has not been appropriated or otherwise authorized and from unexercised priced contract options.
Negotiated unfunded backlog does not include any estimate of future potential task orders expected to be awarded under IDIQ, GSA Schedules or other master agreement contract vehicles.
Total backlog at the end of the third quarter has increased compared to total backlog at prior year end due to several large awards received during the period from classified customers in the intelligence community, NASA, and other various federal government customers, as well as increased funding on existing contracts.
Our contract mix for the nine months ended November 1, 2019 reflects an increase in cost reimbursement type contracts due the acquisition of Engility, which historically had a higher proportion of cost reimbursement type contracts, and a change in contract type on a significant contract supporting the Department of Defense.
Cost of revenues mix for the three and nine months ended November 1, 2019 reflects an increase in labor-related content primarily due to the acquisition of Engility, which historically had a higher proportion of such costs.
Cash used in investing activities for the nine months ended November 1, 2019 increased compared to the prior year period due to purchases of marketable securities, partially offset by lower capital expenditures for property, plant, and equipment.


item3.txt
Item 3.
Item 3.


item4.txt
Item 4.
Item 5.
Item 6.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
Defaults Upon Senior Securities
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


