item1.txt
The Company’s operating cycle may be greater than one year and is measured by the average time intervening between the inception and the completion of contracts.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which supersedes the revenue recognition requirements and some cost guidance included in the Accounting Standards Codification (ASC).
The ASU also requires additional disclosures about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customer contracts, including significant judgments and changes in judgments, and assets recognized from costs incurred to obtain or fulfill a contract.
Under the new standard, the Company continues to recognize revenue over time as services are rendered to fulfill its contractual obligations; however, the Company generally accounts for customer option period exercises (renewals) and service contract modifications prospectively, instead of as a cumulative adjustment to revenue under a single unit of accounting.
Also, under the new standard, award and incentive-based fees generally are recognized during the discrete periods of performance to which they relate as opposed to on a cumulative basis over the contract period.
The Company no longer defers the recognition of revenues and costs associated with significant upfront material acquisitions on programs previously accounted for using the efforts-expended method of percentage of completion.
Under the new standard, the Company recognizes revenue on an adjusted cost-to-cost basis, where the amount of revenue that is recognized is equal to the amount of costs incurred plus profit based on the adjusted cost input measure of progress.
The Company recognizes revenue when, or as, we satisfy our performance obligations under a contract.
A performance obligation is the unit of account for revenue recognition and refers to a promise in a contract to transfer a distinct service or good to the customer.
The majority of the Company’s contracts contain a single performance obligation involving a significant integration of various activities that are performed together to deliver a combined service or solution.
The Company selects the appropriate measure of progress for revenue recognition based on the nature of the performance obligation, contract type and other pertinent contract terms.
Over time performance obligations may involve a series of recurring services, such as network operations and maintenance, operation and program support services, IT outsourcing services, and other IT arrangements where the Company is standing ready to provide support, when-and-if needed.
Deliverable-based performance obligations are satisfied over time when the Company’s performance creates or enhances an asset that is controlled by the customer, or when the Company’s performance creates an asset that is customized to the customer’s specifications and the Company has a right to payment, including profit, for work performed to date.
For recurring services performance obligations, the Company measures progress using either a cost input measure (cost-to-cost), a time-elapsed output measure, or the as-invoiced practical expedient.
For fixed-price contracts, a time-elapsed output measure is applied to fixed consideration, such that revenue is recognized ratably over the period of performance.
Where fixed-price contracts also provide for reimbursement of certain costs, such as travel or other direct costs, consideration may be attributed only to a distinct subset of time within the performance period.
The Company’s time-and-material and fixed price-level of effort contracts generally qualify for the as-invoiced practical expedient.
For deliverable-based performance obligations satisfied over time, the Company recognizes revenue using a cost input measure of progress (cost-to-cost), regardless of contract type.
Revenue is recognized based on the ratio of costs incurred to total estimated costs at completion, except for certain contracts for which the costs associated with significant materials or hardware procurements are excluded from the measure of progress and revenue is recognized on an adjusted cost-to-cost basis.
For performance obligations in which the Company does not transfer control over time, we recognize revenue at the point-in-time when the customer obtains control of the related asset, usually at the time of shipment or upon delivery.
Contract terms may include variable consideration, such as reimbursable costs, award and incentive fees, usage-based fees, service-level penalties, performance bonuses, or other provisions that can either increase or decrease the transaction price.
When making our estimates, the Company considers the customer, contract terms, the complexity of the work and related risks, the extent of customer discretion, historical experience and the potential of a significant reversal of revenue.
The Company includes variable consideration in the transaction price only to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is resolved.
The Company provides for anticipated losses on contracts with the U.S. government by recording an expense for the total expected loss during the period in which the losses are first determined.
For contracts with multiple performance obligations, the Company allocates transaction price to each performance obligation based on the relative standalone selling price of each distinct performance obligation within the contract.
Because the Company typically provides customized services and solutions that are specific to a single customer’s requirements, standalone selling price is most often estimated based on expected costs plus a reasonable profit margin.
In addition, revenues were $2 million and $3 million higher for the three and six months ended August 3, 2018, respectively, due to net revenue recognized from performance obligations satisfied in prior periods.
The changes in the Company's contract assets and contract liabilities during the current period primarily results from the timing differences between the Company's performance, invoicing and customer payments.
During the six months ended August 3, 2018, the Company recognized revenues of $9 million relating to amounts that were included in the opening balance of contract liabilities - current as of February 3, 2018.
No revenues were recognized for the three months ended August 3, 2018, relating to amounts that were included in the opening balance of contract liabilities - current as of February 3, 2018.
The Company defers fulfillment costs incurred to transfer service to a customer prior to the establishment of a contract provided recovery is probable.
The Company performs periodic reviews to assess the recoverability of deferred contract transition and setup costs.
The carrying amount of the asset is compared to the remaining amount of consideration the Company expects to receive for the services to which the asset relates, less the costs that relate directly to providing those services that have not yet been recognized.
The Company expects to recognize revenue on approximately 70% of the remaining performance obligations over the next 12 months and approximately 90% over the next 24 months, with the remaining recognized thereafter.
During the six months ended August 3, 2018, the Company granted certain employees 0.1 million stock options with a weighted-average exercise price and weighted-average grant date fair value of $85.62 and $19.48, respectively.
During the six months ended August 3, 2018, the Company granted to certain employees 0.1 million performance share awards with a grant date fair value of $85.31 per award.
These awards will cliff vest at the end of the third fiscal year following the grant date, subject to meeting the minimum service requirements and the achievement of certain annual and cumulative financial metrics of the Company’s performance, with the number of shares ultimately issued, if any, ranging up to 150% of the specified target shares.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company received a $6 million distribution from escrow to settle a claim, which was recognized as a reduction to selling, general, and administrative costs.
Due to the Company’s reliance on government contracts, adverse findings could also have a material impact on the Company’s business, including its financial position, results of operations and cash flows.
Although the Company has recorded contract revenues subsequent to and including fiscal 2012 based on an estimate of costs that the Company believes will be approved on final audit, the Company does not know the outcome of any ongoing or future audits.
The Company has recorded reserves for estimated net amounts to be refunded to customers for potential adjustments for indirect cost audits and compliance with Cost Accounting Standards, which include indemnification obligations owing to former Parent for periods prior to the Distribution Date.
As of August 3, 2018, the Company has recorded a total liability of $43 million for estimated net amounts to be refunded to customers for potential adjustments from audits of contract costs, which is presented in accounts payable and accrued liabilities on the condensed and consolidated balance sheets.
The Company also has outstanding obligations relating to surety bonds in the amount of $11 million, principally related to performance and payment bonds on the Company’s contracts.
The estimated transaction value is $2.5 billion based on the Company's per share closing price of $89.86 on September 7, 2018, including the repayment of Engility's net debt.
Beginning in fiscal 2018, the Company entered into contracts with various vendors for long-lead time materials that would be necessary to complete the LRIP phase of the program, including portions of the LRIP phase which have not yet been awarded.
The Company’s total purchase commitment on the portion of the LRIP phase which has not yet been awarded is approximately $42 million as of August 3, 2018, of which we have made $6 million in total payments, which is included in inventory, prepaid expenses and other current assets on our condensed and consolidated balance sheets.


item2.txt
In fiscal 2018, we generated greater than 95% of our revenues from contracts with the U.S. government, including subcontracts on which we perform.
A recently-passed omnibus appropriations measure increased discretionary federal spending by $143 billion above previous spending caps for government fiscal year (GFY) 2018, providing additional business opportunities for the Company.
The U.S. government has increasingly relied on contracts that are subject to a competitive bidding process (including indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity (IDIQ), U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) schedules and other multi-award contracts) which has resulted in greater competition and increased pricing pressure.
For performance obligations satisfied over time, updates to estimates are recognized on inception-to-date activity, during the period of adjustment, resulting in either a favorable or unfavorable impact to operating income.
Revenues increased $37 million or 3.4% for the three months ended August 3, 2018 as compared to the same period in the prior year due to increased orders in our supply chain portfolio ($31 million) and revenue on new contracts primarily supporting NASA and other federal civilian agencies ($24 million).
Revenues increased $109 million or 5.0% for the six months ended August 3, 2018 as compared to the same period in the prior year due to revenue on new contracts primarily supporting NASA and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) ($71 million) and increased orders in our supply chain portfolio ($95 million).
Cost of revenues increased $24 million for the three months ended August 3, 2018 as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to an increase in revenue volume.
Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues decreased from 90.8% in the prior year quarter to 90.0%, driven by improved performance across our portfolio, the realization of cost efficiencies resulting from our restructuring activities in fiscal 2018, the absence of restructuring costs incurred in fiscal 2018 ($2 million), and higher net favorable changes in estimates on contracts accounted for under the percentage-of-completion method ($1 million).
Cost of revenues increased $91 million for the six months ended August 3, 2018 as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to an increase in revenue volume.
Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues decreased from 91.1% in the prior year period to 90.7% primarily due to improved performance across our portfolio, the realization of cost efficiencies resulting from our restructuring activities in fiscal 2018, the absence of restructuring costs incurred in fiscal 2018 ($2 million), and lower net unfavorable changes in estimates on contracts accounted for under the percentage-of-completion method ($1 million).
Operating income as a percentage of revenues increased to 6.6% for the three months ended August 3, 2018 from 5.5% in the comparable prior year period, driven by improved performance across our portfolio and the realization of cost efficiencies resulting from our restructuring activities in fiscal 2018.
Operating income as a percentage of revenues increased to 6.1% for the six months ended August 3, 2018 from 5.6% in the comparable prior year period primarily due to improved performance across our portfolio and the realization of cost efficiencies resulting from our restructuring activities in fiscal 2018.
Net income for the six months ended August 3, 2018 increased $13 million as compared to the same period in the prior year due to higher operating income, partially offset by higher income tax expense.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $76 million for the six months ended August 3, 2018, an increase of $23 million compared to the prior year, primarily due to higher customer collections, partially offset by an increase in working capital investments in platform integration programs.
Adjusted EBITDA for the three months ended August 3, 2018 increased to 7.5% of revenues from 6.7% of revenues for the prior year, driven by improved performance across our portfolio and the realization of cost efficiencies resulting from our restructuring activities in fiscal 2018.
Adjusted EBITDA for the six months ended August 3, 2018 increased to 7.0% of revenues from 6.6% of revenues for the prior year, driven by improved performance across our portfolio and the realization of cost efficiencies resulting from our restructuring activities in fiscal 2018.
Net bookings represent the estimated amount of revenues to be earned in the future from funded and negotiated unfunded contract awards that were received during the period, net of adjustments to estimates on previously awarded contracts.
Backlog represents the estimated amount of future revenues to be recognized under negotiated contracts as work is performed.
We do not include in backlog estimates of revenues to be derived from IDIQ contracts, but rather record backlog and bookings when task orders are awarded on these contracts.
Funded backlog for contracts with government agencies primarily represents estimated amounts of revenue to be earned in the future from contracts for which funding is appropriated less revenues previously recognized on these contracts.
It does not include the unfunded portion of contracts in which funding is incrementally appropriated or authorized on a quarterly or annual basis by the U.S. government and other customers even though the contract may call for performance over a number of years.
Funded backlog for contracts with non-government customers represents the estimated value on contracts, which may cover multiple future years, under which we are obligated to perform, less revenues previously recognized on these contracts.
Negotiated unfunded backlog represents estimated amounts of revenue to be earned in the future from negotiated contracts for which funding has not been appropriated or otherwise authorized and from unexercised priced contract options.
Negotiated unfunded backlog does not include any estimate of future potential task orders expected to be awarded under IDIQ, GSA Schedules or other master agreement contract vehicles.
Although we believe that the financing arrangements in place will permit us to finance our operations on acceptable terms and conditions for at least the next year, our future access to, and the availability of financing on acceptable terms and conditions will be impacted by many factors (including our credit rating, capital market liquidity and overall economic conditions).
Cash used in financing activities for the six months ended August 3, 2018 decreased compared to the prior year period primarily due to a decrease in stock repurchased and retired or withheld for taxes on equity awards, partially offset by higher term loan principal payments.


item4.txt
Controls and Procedures


part2.txt
We have provided information about legal proceedings in which we are involved in our fiscal 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we have provided an update to this information in Note 9 of the notes to the condensed and consolidated financial statements contained within this report.
Additional information regarding such investigations and reviews is included in our fiscal 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we have also updated this information in Note 9 of the notes to the condensed and consolidated financial statements contained within this report, under the heading “Government Investigations, Audits and Reviews.”
The price of SAIC common shares at the closing of the merger may vary from the price on the date the Merger Agreement was executed and the dates of the respective special meetings of our stockholders and Engility’s stockholders.
We may not obtain sufficient financing to repay certain outstanding obligations of Engility upon closing.
We have entered into a debt commitment letter pursuant to which Citigroup Global Markets Inc. has committed to provide us with a new seven-year senior secured $1.05 billion Term Loan B structured as an incremental facility under our existing credit agreement.
The proceeds of this new financing are necessary to enable us to repay Engility’s existing credit facility and outstanding notes.
Citibank’s obligation to provide us financing under the debt commitment letter, however, is subject to specified limited conditions, and we cannot assure you that these conditions will be met.
The closing of the merger is not conditioned on our ability to obtain financing.
If we are unable to obtain financing pursuant to the debt commitment letter or otherwise, we still could be required to close the merger resulting in a default under our and Engility’s existing credit agreements, or we could be subject to claims under the Merger Agreement, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business.


