item1.txt
The Company is organized as a matrix comprised of three customer facing operating segments supported by a solutions and technology group.
Each of the Company’s three customer facing operating segments is focused on providing the Company’s comprehensive technical and enterprise IT service offerings to one or more agencies of the U.S federal government.
The results of operations of FSA are included in the Company's condensed and consolidated statements of income.
The Company’s operating cycle may be greater than one year and is measured by the average time intervening between the inception and the completion of contracts.
The Company’s fixed interest rate swaps are considered over-the-counter derivatives, and fair value is calculated using a standard pricing model for interest rate swaps with contractual terms for maturities, amortization and interest rates.
The fair value is an estimate of the amount that the Company would pay or receive as of a measurement date if the agreements were transferred to a third party or canceled.
The Company adopted the standard using the optional transition method.
The Company elected certain practical expedients provided under the standard, including the package of practical expedients, which allows entities not to reassess whether existing contracts are or contain leases.
As a result of the adoption of the new standard, on February 2, 2019, the Company recognized approximately $169 million of right of use operating assets and $187 million of operating lease liabilities, of which $140 million was noncurrent.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this standard on its financial statements.
Other Accounting Standards Updates effective after May 3, 2019 are not expected to have a material effect on the Company’s financial statements.
The Company declared and paid a quarterly dividend of $0.37 per share of its common stock during the three months ended May 3, 2019.
During the three months ended May 3, 2019 and May 4, 2018, the Company recognized revenues of $13 million and $9 million relating to amounts that were included in the opening balance of contract liabilities as of February 1, 2019 and February 3, 2018, respectively.
On January 14, 2019, the Company completed the acquisition of Engility Holdings, Inc., a leading provider of integrated solutions and services supporting U.S. government customers in the defense, federal civilian, and intelligence and space communities.
The Company inherited Engility's historical tax basis in deductible goodwill, certain other intangible assets, and net operating loss carryforwards.
During the three months ended May 3, 2019, the Company granted certain employees 0.1 million stock options with a weighted-average exercise price and weighted-average grant date fair value of $74.97 and $16.71, respectively.
During the three months ended May 3, 2019, the Company granted certain employees 0.4 million RSUs with a weighted-average grant date fair value of $74.97, which will vest ratably on each anniversary of the grant date over a three-year period.
The fair value of long-term debt is calculated using Level 2 inputs, based on interest rates available for debt with terms and maturities similar to the Company’s term loan facilities.
The Company received cash proceeds of $6 million upon the early settlement.
The following table presents the changes in accumulated other comprehensive loss attributable to the Company’s fixed interest rate swap cash flow hedges that are discussed in Note 8.
The Company occupies most of its facilities under operating leases.
Effective upon the adoption of ASU 2016-02, the Company recognizes a right of use (ROU) asset and a lease liability upon the commencement of its operating leases.
The initial lease liability is equal to the future fixed minimum lease payments discounted using the Company’s incremental borrowing rate, on a secured basis.
The lease term includes option renewal periods and early termination payments when it is reasonably certain that the Company will exercise those rights.
For its facility leases, the Company combines and accounts for lease and non-lease components together as a single component.
The Company does not recognize lease liabilities and ROU assets for facility leases with original terms of 12 months or less.
As of May 3, 2019, the Company has rental commitments of $24 million for facility leases that have not yet commenced.
Beginning in fiscal 2018, the Company entered into contracts with various vendors for long-lead time materials that would be necessary to complete the low-rate initial production (LRIP) phase of the program, including portions of the LRIP phase which had not yet been awarded.
As a result of the program termination, the Company recognized an inventory provision for long-lead items.
Contingent losses that were unknown at the time of separation and arise from the operation of the Company’s historical business or the former Parent’s historical corporate losses will be shared between the parties to the extent that losses in any such category exceed $50 million in the aggregate.
If they arise and exceed the $50 million threshold, the Company will be responsible for 30% of the former Parent’s incremental contingent losses on corporate claims (and former Parent will be responsible for 70% of the Company’s incremental losses on claims relating to operations that exceed $50 million).
The Company is routinely subject to investigations and reviews relating to compliance with various laws and regulations with respect, in particular, to its role as a contractor to federal, state and local government customers and in connection with performing services in countries outside of the United States.
Due to the Company’s reliance on government contracts, adverse findings could also have a material impact on the Company’s business, including its financial position, results of operations and cash flows.
The Company has recorded reserves for estimated net amounts to be refunded to customers for potential adjustments for indirect cost audits and compliance with Cost Accounting Standards.
As of May 3, 2019, the Company has recorded a total liability of $64 million for estimated net amounts to be refunded to customers for potential adjustments from audits of contract costs, which is presented in accounts payable and accrued liabilities on the condensed and consolidated balance sheets.


item2.txt
In fiscal year 2019, we generated greater than 95% of our revenues from contracts with the U.S. government, including subcontracts on which we perform.
Appropriations measures passed in September 2018 and February 2019, when combined, provide full funding for the federal government through the end of government fiscal year (GFY) 2019.
These bills are funded at increased levels for defense and non-defense spending based on a bi-partisan agreement reached in February 2018 to lift caps set by the Budget Control Act of 2011 (BCA), providing additional business opportunities for the Company.
The U.S. government has increasingly relied on contracts that are subject to a competitive bidding process (including indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity (IDIQ), U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) schedules, and other multi-award contracts), which has resulted in greater competition and increased pricing pressure.
For performance obligations satisfied over time, updates to estimates are recognized on inception-to-date activity, during the period of adjustment, resulting in either a favorable or unfavorable impact to operating income.
Revenues increased $440 million or 37.4% for the three months ended May 3, 2019 as compared to the same period in the prior year due to the acquisition of Engility.
Excluding acquired revenues, revenues contracted 2.8%, attributable to humanitarian relief materials in the prior year quarter and the effect of acquisition related revenue dis-synergies.
Cost of revenues increased $361 million for the three months ended May 3, 2019 as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to the acquisition of Engility.
Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues decreased from 91.4% in the prior year quarter to 88.9%, driven by cost synergies as a result of the acquisition of Engility and improved performance across our portfolio including higher net favorable changes in estimates related to performance obligations satisfied over time ($13 million).
Operating income as a percentage of revenues of 5.8% for the three months ended May 3, 2019 increased from 5.6% in the comparable prior year period, due to the acquisition of Engility, cost synergies related to the acquisition, and improved performance across our portfolio, partially offset by higher costs associated with the acquisition and integration of Engility.
Net income attributable to common stockholders for the three months ended May 3, 2019 increased $6 million as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to increased operating income ($24 million, net of tax), partially offset by higher interest expense and a higher effective tax rate.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $178 million for the three months ended May 3, 2019, an increase of $90 million compared to the prior year, primarily due to customer collections recouped from the U.S. federal government partial shutdown that occurred in the prior quarter, strong customer collections across several programs, and cash provided from the operating activities of Engility.
Adjusted EBITDA is calculated by taking EBITDA and excluding acquisition and integration costs that we do not consider to be indicative of our ongoing operating performance.
Adjusted EBITDA for the three months ended May 3, 2019 increased to 8.3% of revenues from 6.5% of revenues for the prior year driven by the acquisition of Engility, cost synergies related to the acquisition and improved performance across our portfolio including higher net favorable changes in estimates related to performance obligations satisfied over time.
Backlog represents the estimated amount of future revenues to be recognized under negotiated contracts as work is performed.
We do not include in backlog estimates of revenues to be derived from IDIQ contracts, but rather record backlog and bookings when task orders are awarded on these contracts.
Funded backlog for contracts with government agencies primarily represents estimated amounts of revenue to be earned in the future from contracts for which funding is appropriated less revenues previously recognized on these contracts.
It does not include the unfunded portion of contracts in which funding is incrementally appropriated or authorized on a quarterly or annual basis by the U.S. government and other customers even though the contract may call for performance over a number of years.
Funded backlog for contracts with non-government customers represents the estimated value on contracts, which may cover multiple future years, under which we are obligated to perform, less revenues previously recognized on these contracts.
Negotiated unfunded backlog represents estimated amounts of revenue to be earned in the future from negotiated contracts for which funding has not been appropriated or otherwise authorized and from unexercised priced contract options.
Negotiated unfunded backlog does not include any estimate of future potential task orders expected to be awarded under IDIQ, GSA Schedules or other master agreement contract vehicles.
Our contract mix for the three months ended May 3, 2019 reflects an increase in cost reimbursement type contracts due the acquisition of Engility, which historically had a higher proportion of cost reimbursement type contracts, and a change in contract type on a significant contract supporting the Department of Defense.
Cost of revenues mix for the three months ended May 3, 2019 reflects an increase in labor-related content due to the acquisition of Engility which historically had a higher proportion of such costs.
We expect to fund our ongoing working capital, commitments and any other discretionary investments with cash on hand, future operating cash flows and, if needed, borrowings under our $400 million Revolving Credit Facility.
We consider various financial measures when we develop and update our capital deployment strategy, which includes evaluating cash provided by operating activities, free cash flow and financial leverage.
Although we believe that the financing arrangements in place will permit us to finance our operations on acceptable terms and conditions for at least the next year, our future access to, and the availability of financing on acceptable terms and conditions will be impacted by many factors (including our credit rating, capital market liquidity and overall economic conditions).
Nevertheless, we believe that our existing cash on hand, generation of future operating cash flows, and access to bank financing and capital markets will provide adequate resources to meet our short-term liquidity and long-term capital needs.
Refer to “Results of Operations” above for a discussion of the changes in cash provided by operating activities between the three months ended May 3, 2019 and the comparable prior year period.


item3.txt
Item 3.
Item 3.


item4.txt
Item 4.
Item 5.
Item 6.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
Defaults Upon Senior Securities
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


