PART II-OTHER INFORMATION
ITEM 1.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
The information required by this item is included in Note 10 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I Item 1, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 1A.
RISK FACTORS
Geopolitical uncertainty, and changes to international trade agreements, tariffs, import and excise duties, taxes, or other governmental rules and regulations could adversely affect our business and results of operations.
•political instability, and the possibility of a deteriorating relationship with the United States;
•the imposition of new or modified international trade restrictions, tariffs, import and excise duties or other taxes;
•import and export requirements, including restrictions on sales to certain end customers;
•restrictions on foreign ownership and investments, including potential intervention by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United Stated (CFIUS) or by other applicable administrative review boards to block strategic transactions that might otherwise be in shareholders’ interests;
•restrictions on repatriation of cash earned in countries outside the U.S.;
•changes in local political, economic, social and labor conditions;
•a less developed and less certain legal and regulatory environment in some countries, which, among other things, can create uncertainty regarding contract enforcement, intellectual property rights and liability issues; and
•inadequate levels of compliance with applicable anti-bribery laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
For example, our sales were impacted in the second quarter of 2018 when the U.S. Department of Commerce banned U.S. companies from providing exports to ZTE, a Chinese telecoms equipment manufacturer (which ban was subsequently lifted in the third quarter of 2018) in an export controls case.
Similarly, general trade tensions between the U.S. and China have been escalating in 2018, with rounds of U.S. tariffs on Chinese goods taking effect in July, August, and September 2018 (some of which prompted retaliatory Chinese tariffs on U.S. goods) and with an additional U.S. tariff rate increase scheduled to take effect in January 2019.
Further rounds of tariffs have also been threatened by U.S. and Chinese leaders.
•The August and September 2018 rounds of U.S. tariffs apply to some of our products that are assembled in China and imported to the U.S.
Specifically, the August round imposed a 25% tariff on integrated circuits and the September round imposed a 10% tariff on modules, which will rise to 25% in January 2019.
For the third quarter of 2018 (when the tariffs were imposed late in the quarter) an immaterial amount of our revenue arose from products subject to such tariffs.
Assuming these tariffs remain in effect, we currently project that products subject to the tariffs will generate
approximately 2% of our revenue for the fourth quarter of 2018.
These current and any future tariffs imposed by the U.S. on products assembled in China that we sell in the U.S. could negatively impact our U.S. sales.
•Apart from wafers, the current U.S. tariffs cover only a small fraction of the materials we utilize for manufacturing of our products.
We do not anticipate any material impact on our supply chain costs from the U.S. tariffs imposed to date.
If the U.S. were to impose tariffs on a broader range of materials that we or our suppliers source from China for use in U.S. manufacturing (and if we were unable to avoid the tariffs by use of the TIB process or other means), such tariffs could cause our costs to increase, which could narrow the profits we earn from sales of products requiring such materials or force us to raise prices, negatively impacting our sales.
As mentioned above, the process of changing suppliers in order to mitigate any such tariff costs could be complicated, time-consuming, and costly.
•We believe the U.S. tariffs may cause customers to delay orders as they evaluate where to take delivery of our products in connection with their efforts to mitigate their own tariff exposure.
Such delays create forecasting difficulties for us and increase the risk that orders might be canceled or might never be placed.
We could also be affected by nationalization of our international operations, unstable governments, unfamiliar or biased legal systems or intergovernmental disputes.
Any determination that our operations or activities did not comply with applicable U.S. or foreign laws or regulations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties, interruptions of business, terminations of necessary licenses and permits, and other legal and equitable sanctions.
We are dependent on third parties to manufacture products, market products, distribute products, generate a significant portion of our product sales, fulfill our customer orders, and transport our products.
Problems in the performance or availability of these companies could seriously harm our financial performance.
We rely significantly on independent contractors to manufacture, which includes assembly and testing of, our products.
In addition, in March 2017, we divested a manufacturing facility located in Minnesota, which reduced our internal manufacturing capacity though we continue to outsource manufacturing services from this facility.
If market demand for our products exceeds our internal manufacturing capacity and available capacity from our foundry partners, we may seek additional foundry manufacturing arrangements.
A shortage in foundry manufacturing capacity, which is more likely to occur at times of increasing demand, could hinder our ability to meet demand for our products and therefore
adversely affect our operating results.
Suppliers may extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to commodity price increases, capacity constraints or other factors, which may lead to supply interruptions which could materially harm our results of operations.
In addition, greater demand for wafers produced by any such foundries without an offsetting increase in foundry capacity raises the likelihood of potential shortages and wafer price increases.
Our operations would be disrupted if any of our foundry partners terminates its relationship with us, delays its shipments to us, or experiences financial difficulty and we are unable to arrange a satisfactory alternative to fulfill customer orders on a timely basis and in a cost-effective manner.
There are also only a few foundry vendors that have the capabilities to manufacture our most advanced products.
If we need to engage alternate sources of supply, such sources may be unavailable on commercially reasonable terms, or at all.
Due to the difficulty of engaging alternate sources of supply, if any of our key manufacturing facility partners experiences financial difficulties, we may accelerate purchases or commit to increase our purchases in order to build up inventories as a precautionary measure; however, this approach might increase our inventory carrying costs and expose us to inventory risks.
Even if we are able to engage alternate sources of supply, we may encounter start-up difficulties or yield issues or incur additional costs.
Shipments could be delayed significantly while these sources are engaged and qualified for volume production.
While many of our products are assembled, packaged and tested at our manufacturing facilities located in the Philippines and Thailand, we rely on independent subcontractors to assemble, package and test the balance of our products.
We cannot be certain that these subcontractors will continue to assemble, package and test products for us on acceptable economic and quality terms or at all and it might be difficult for us to find alternatives if they do not do so.
Our foundry partners and assembly and test subcontractors have operations in locations that may suffer the impact of certain natural disasters and political risk, which could impact their ability to provide us with our products.
We monitor these events closely, but if one of our third-party manufacturing partners were to suffer significant damage to its operations as a result of a natural disaster or other catastrophic events, our ability to timely meet consumer demand would suffer which would materially harm our results of operations.
We also rely on independent carriers and freight haulers to move our products between manufacturing plants and our customers’ facilities.
Transport or delivery problems due to their error or because of unforeseen interruptions in their business due to factors such as strikes, political instability, terrorism, natural disasters or accidents could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations and ultimately impact our relationship with our customers.
Finally, our customers source a variety of materials from various suppliers in addition to Cypress.
The failure by third-party suppliers to meet our customers' materials requirements on a timely basis could negatively impact our customers' manufacturing schedules and reduce or delay our customers' demand for our products.
For example, in 2018 a shortage of multi-layer ceramic capacitors, or MLCCs (a necessary component on many printed circuit boards), has created challenges for manufacturers in multiple end markets.
To the extent our customers experience shortages of necessary materials, they may be forced to slow production of their end products, with a corresponding decline in the rate at which they purchase materials from us.
We may dispose of certain businesses, product lines or assets, which could adversely affect our results of operations and liquidity.
From time to time, we may divest certain businesses, product lines or assets, acquired or otherwise, that are no longer strategically important, or we may exit minority investments, which could materially affect our cash flows and results of operations.
If we decide to divest a business, product line, or assets, we may encounter difficulty in finding or completing such divestiture opportunity (or alternative exit strategy) on acceptable terms or in a timely manner.
These circumstances could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives or cause us to incur additional expenses with respect to the business, product line or assets that we seek to dispose.
In addition, any delay in the timing of a divestiture transaction may negatively impact our business operations or liquidity for a period of time.
Alternatively, we may dispose of businesses, product lines, or assets at prices or on terms that are less favorable than we had anticipated.
Even following a divestiture, we may be contractually obligated with respect to certain continuing obligations to customers, vendors, landlords, or other third parties.
Accordingly, we may be dependent on the new owner (of such business, product line or manufacturing facility) to fulfill our continuing obligations to our customers.
We may also have continuing obligations for pre-existing liabilities related to the divested assets or businesses.
Such obligations may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition.
Any such dispositions could also result in disruption to other parts of our business, potential loss of employees or customers (especially if the new owner is unable or unwilling to assist us in fulfilling any continuing obligations to our customers), potential loss of revenue, negative impact on our margins, exposure to unanticipated liabilities or result in ongoing obligations and liabilities to us following any such divestiture.
We may also incur significant costs associated with exit or disposal activities, related impairment charges, or both.
One type of divestiture is contribution of the applicable business, product lines, or assets to a joint venture in exchange for an interest in the venture, which exposes us to the risk that the joint venture might decline in value or not meet desired objectives.
The success of joint venture investments depends on various factors over which Cypress might have limited or no control and requires ongoing and effective cooperation with strategic partners.
Such risks could be exacerbated by unfavorable financial market and macroeconomic conditions and, as a result, the value of any joint venture investment could be negatively impacted and lead to impairment charges.
ITEM 2.
UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS
The table below summarizes information with respect to repurchases of common stock made in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 under the $450 million stock buyback program, which was announced on October 20, 2015.
ITEM 3.
DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIES
None.
ITEM 4.
MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES
Not applicable.
ITEM 5.
OTHER INFORMATION
None.
ITEM 6.
EXHIBITS
+Exhibits 32.1 and 32.2 are being furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, nor shall such exhibits be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as otherwise specifically stated in such filing.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
