ITEM 3.
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
Interest Rate Risks
Our investment portfolio consists of a variety of financial instruments that expose us to interest rate risk, including, but not limited to, money market funds, certificates of deposit, and corporate securities.
Due to the relatively short-term nature of our investment portfolio, we do not believe that an immediate increase in interest rates would have a material effect on the fair market value of our portfolio.
Our debt obligations consist of a variety of financial instruments that expose us to interest rate risk, including, but not limited to our revolving credit facility, term loans and exchangeable notes.
Interest on the exchangeable notes is fixed and interest on our term loans is at variable rates.
The interest rate on the term loans is tied to short-term interest rate benchmarks including the prime rate and the London inter-bank offered rate, or LIBOR.
In December 2017, we entered into fixed-for-floating interest rate forward swap agreements with two counterparties, starting from April 2018, to swap variable interest payments on our debt for fixed interest payments.
These agreements will expire in July 2021.
The objective of the swap was to effectively fix the interest rate at current levels without having to refinance the outstanding term loan, thereby avoiding the incurrence of transaction costs.
Under these arrangements, the interest rate on the variable debt became fixed in April 2018.
On January 3, 2018, we evaluated the hedge effectiveness of the interest rate swaps and have designated these swaps as hedging instruments.
Upon designation as hedge instruments, future changes in fair value of these swaps will be recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss.
A one hundred basis point change in the contractual interest rates would change our interest expense for the Revolving Credit Facility and Term Loan B by approximately $1.8 million annually.
Our long-term operating results and cash flows may be materially affected to a significant degree by a sudden change in market interest rates.
Foreign Currency Exchange Risk
We operate and sell products in various global markets and purchase capital equipment using foreign currencies but predominantly the U.S. dollar.
We are exposed to certain risks associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates in Japanese yen and other foreign currencies.
•sales of our products to Japanese distributors are denominated in U.S. dollars, Japanese yen and Euros;
•some of our manufacturing costs and operating expenses are denominated in Japanese yen, and other foreign currencies such as the Thai Baht, Philippine Peso and Malaysian Ringgit; and
•some fixed asset purchases and sales are denominated in other foreign currencies.
Consequently, movements in exchange rates could cause our revenues and our expenses to fluctuate, affecting our profitability and cash flows.
We use foreign currency forward contracts to reduce our foreign exchange exposure on our foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities.
We also hedge a percentage of our forecasted revenue denominated in Japanese yen with foreign currency forward contracts.
The objective of these contracts is to mitigate the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements to our operating results on a short-term basis.
We do not use these contracts for speculative or trading purposes.
To provide an assessment of the foreign currency exchange risk associated with our foreign currency exposures within our operations, we performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the impact that an adverse change in exchange rates would have on our financial statements.
If the U.S. dollar weakened by 10%, our operating margin could be unfavorably impacted by approximately 2%.
We expect our hedges of foreign currency exposures to be highly effective and offset a significant portion of the short-term impact of changes in exchange rates on the hedged portion of our exposures.
Please see Note 11 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for details on the hedge contracts.
ITEM 3.
DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIES
None.
