ITEM 4.
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures
We maintain “disclosure controls and procedures,” as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
In designing and evaluating our disclosure controls and procedures, management recognized that disclosure controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the disclosure controls and procedures are met.
Additionally, in designing disclosure controls and procedures, our management necessarily was required to apply its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible disclosure controls and procedures.
The design of any disclosure controls and procedures also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions.
Based on the evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures required by Rules 13a-15(b) or 15d-15(b) under the Exchange Act, our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer have concluded that, due to a material weakness in internal
control over financial reporting described in Part II, Item 9A of our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K, our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of April 1, 2018.
Changes in internal controls
There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) that occurred during the first quarter of 2018 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting, other than as described below under the caption “Remediation Plan.”
Remediation Plan
•Redesigning controls over the evaluation of assumptions and detailed calculations relating to the ESPP and expanding control activities to adequately reconcile and validate assumptions to the models used to determine non-cash stock-based compensation expense;
•Effective January 1, 2018, management has changed the parameters of the ESPP, which is expected to reduce the number of inputs required to estimate the fair value of those awards;
•Re-evaluating the design of stock-based compensation processes and implementing new and improved processes and controls, as appropriate, including adding supplemental oversight and review; and
•Strengthening the precision of the internal review process to ensure the completeness and accuracy of the assumptions and calculations used in accounting for stock-based compensation.
Management is committed to a strong internal control environment and believes that, when fully implemented and tested, the measures described above will remediate the material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting.
We will continue to assess the effectiveness of our remediation efforts in connection with our future assessments of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting.
The material weakness will not be considered remediated until the applicable remedial controls operate for a sufficient period of time and management has concluded, through testing, that these controls are operating effectively.
We expect the remediation of this material weakness to be completed prior to the end of fiscal 2018.
ITEM 4.
MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES
Not applicable.
ITEM 5.
OTHER INFORMATION
None
ITEM 6.
EXHIBITS
+Exhibits 32.1 and 32.2 are being furnished and shall not be deemed to be “filed” for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, nor shall such exhibits be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as otherwise specifically stated in such filing.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
