fls.txt
The ASU introduces a new forward-looking approach, based on expected losses, to estimate credit losses on certain types of financial instruments, including trade receivables.
The estimate of expected credit losses will require considerations of historical information, current information and reasonable and supportable forecasts.


item1.txt
CDW Corporation ("Parent") is a Fortune 500 company with multi-national capabilities and a leading provider of integrated information technology ("IT") solutions to small, medium and large business, government, education and healthcare customers in the United States ("US"), the United Kingdom ("UK") and Canada.
CDW Finance Corporation is a Delaware corporation formed for the sole purpose of acting as co-issuer of certain debt obligations as described in Note 13 (Supplemental Guarantor Information) and does not hold any material assets or engage in any business activities or operations.
The significant accounting policies used in preparing these Consolidated Financial Statements were applied on a basis consistent with those reflected in the December 31, 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements.
Except as noted below for the adoption of Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2016-02, Leases ("Topic 842"), there have been no material changes to the Company's significant accounting policies and estimates during the six months ended June 30, 2019.
At the lease commencement date, the Company records Operating lease liabilities based on the present value of the future lease payments.
In determining the present value of future lease payments, the Company uses its incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at the commencement date.
For real estate and data center contracts, the Company accounts for the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component.
For certain equipment leases, the Company applies a portfolio approach to account for the right-of-use asset and operating lease liability.
In assessing the lease term, the Company includes options to renew only when it is reasonably certain that it will be exercised; a determination which is at the sole discretion of the Company.
For equipment leases used in revenue generating activities, the Company will record a right-of-use asset and lease liability for leases with a term of 12 months or less.


item2.txt
CDW Corporation is a Fortune 500 company and a leading provider of integrated information technology ("IT") solutions to small, medium and large business, and government, education and healthcare customers in the US, the UK and Canada.
This is particularly the case for our Corporate and Small Business customers, as their purchases tend to reflect confidence in their business prospects, which are driven by their discrete perceptions of business and general economic conditions.
These trends are driving customer adoption of solutions such as those delivered via cloud, software defined architectures and hybrid on-premise and off-premise combinations, as well as the evolution of the IT consumption model to more "as-a-service" offerings, including Device-as-a-Service ("DaaS") and managed services.
Effective January 1, 2019, we made a change to the Non-GAAP financial measures that we use to provide meaningful methods of evaluating our financial performance and have replaced EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin with Non-GAAP operating income and Non-GAAP operating income margin.
In addition to Non-GAAP operating income and Non-GAAP operating income margin, we believe that the most important financial and non-financial measures and ratios include average daily sales, gross margin, operating margin, Net income, Non-GAAP income before income taxes, Non-GAAP net income, Net income per diluted share, Non-GAAP net income per diluted share, free cash flow, return on working capital, Cash and cash equivalents, net working capital, cash conversion cycle (defined to be days of sales outstanding in Accounts receivable and certain receivables due from vendors plus days of supply in Merchandise inventory minus days of purchases outstanding in Accounts payable and Accounts payable-inventory financing, based on a rolling three-month average), debt levels including available credit, sales per coworker and coworker turnover.
Management uses these measures to evaluate period-over-period performance as management believes they provide a more comparable measure of the underlying business.
For the definitions of Non-GAAP operating income, Non-GAAP income before income taxes and Non-GAAP net income and reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP measure, see "Results of Operations - Non-GAAP Financial Measure Reconciliations."
Total Net sales for the three months ended June 30, 2019 increased $444 million, or 10.6%, to $4,630 million, compared to $4,186 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018.
Corporate segment Net sales for the three months ended June 30, 2019 increased $150 million, or 8.7%, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2018.
Small Business segment Net sales for the three months ended June 30, 2019 increased by $48 million, or 14.5%, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2018.
Public segment Net sales for the three months ended June 30, 2019 increased $205 million, or 12.5%, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2018.
This increase was partially offset by the impact of foreign currency exchange of approximately 540 basis points, due to the unfavorable impact resulting from the British pound and Canadian dollar to US dollar translations.
Gross profit increased $78 million, or 11.2%, to $774 million for the three months ended June 30, 2019, compared to $696 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018.
As a percentage of Net sales, Gross profit margin increased 10 basis points to 16.7% for the three months ended June 30, 2019.
Selling and administrative expenses increased $39 million, or 10.2%, to $420 million for the three months ended June 30, 2019, compared to $381 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018.
The increase was driven by higher payroll expenses due to increased coworkers and higher sales payroll expenses, including sales commissions, which are primarily driven by higher gross profit, the inclusion of Scalar expenses, and performance-based compensation consistent with higher attainment against goals.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 1.


