Revenue Recognition—The Company derives its revenues primarily from software subscription and transaction fees, software license fees, financial transaction fees, risk compliance solution services fees, and professional service fees including associated fees for consulting, implementation, training, and project management provided to customers with installed systems and applications.
Consideration of $71 thousand was paid during the fourth quarter of 2018, $214 thousand during the first quarter of 2019, and $72 thousand remains to be paid.
As of September 30, 2019, Ebix has approximately 89.94% of the controlling stake in India based Weizmann.
The amendments in this ASU are effective for public business entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that fiscal year.
Accounts Receivable and the Allowance for Doubtful Accounts—Reported accounts receivable include $165.4 million of trade receivables stated at invoice billed amounts and $35.3 million of contract assets (net of the estimated allowance for doubtful accounts receivable in the amount of $21.0 million).
The transaction price on such services is agreed upon at the time of the purchase.
This joint venture was established to promote and market an administrative data exchange for health and pet insurance lines of business nationally.
In accordance with the relevant FASB accounting guidance, goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis or on an interim basis if an event occurred or circumstances change that would indicate that fair value of a reporting unit decreased below its carrying value.
COI revenues are derived from consideration paid by customers for the creation and tracking of certificates of insurance.
The risks described in that 2018 Form 10-K and in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are not the only risks that the Company faces.Interest income decreased $4 thousand or 4% to $99 thousand in the third quarter of 2019 as compared to $103 thousand in the third quarter of 2018, primarily due to decreased balances in interest bearing accounts.
Our principal sources of liquidity are the cash flows provided by the Company's operating activities, the Company's commercial banking credit facility, and cash and cash equivalents on hand.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, the Company drew$13.5 million from its revolving credit facility.
RCS revenues consist of two revenue streams—Certificates of Insurance (COI) and Consulting Services.
The year-over-year revenues primarily increased as a result of the growth in the EbixCash segment as well as the acquisitions in the travel, foreign exchange, and software solutions sectors during the last twelve months offset by reductions in revenues from the insurance consulting business, EbixHealth JV, and e-governance service contracts executed within the Ebix Vayam Limited JV for Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited "BSNL" (a leading public sector undertaking in the telecommunication sector in India).
General and administrative expenses increased $18.7 million or 66% to $46.9 million in the third quarter of 2019 as compared to $28.2 million in the third quarter of 2018.
Ebix, Inc., and its subsidiaries, (“Ebix” or the “Company”) is a leading international supplier of on-demand infrastructure exchanges to the insurance, financial, and healthcare industries.
Product development expenses increased $235 thousand or 2% to $11.2 million during the third quarter of 2019 as compared to $11.0 million during the third quarter of 2018 primarily due to increased employee-related insurance costs in our expanding India operations.