fls.txt



item1.txt
Accordingly, Ebix acquired an 80% stake in ItzCash for $120 million including upfront cash of $76.3 million plus possible future contingent earn-out payments of up to $44.0 million based on earned revenues over the subsequent thirty-six month period following the effective date of the acquisition.
These contingent consideration liabilities were recorded at fair value on the acquisition date and are re-measured quarterly based on the then assessed fair value and adjusted if necessary.
In the geographical information table above the significant changes to long-lived assets from March 31, 2017 to March 31, 2018 were comprised of an increase in the United States of $8.0 million primarily due to capitalized continuing medical education product costs and the continued build out of our global corporate headquarters campus in Johns Creek, Georgia.
On October 19, 2017, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into the Third Amendment and Waiver (the “Third Amendment”) to the Credit Agreement.
On April 9, 2018, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into the Seventh Amendment and Waiver (the “Seventh Amendment”) to the Credit Agreement.
As of March 31, 2018 there were 30,000 shares totaling $2.2 million of share repurchases that were not settled until April 2018.
Canada's revenues decreased by $508 thousand due primarily to decreased professional services.
The leasing standard will be effective for calendar year-end public companies beginning after December 15, 2018.
A public business entity filer should adopt the amendments in this ASU for its annual or any interim goodwill impairment tests in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019.
Consistent with current GAAP, the recognition, measurement, and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee primarily will depend on its classification as a finance or operating lease.
with initial repayments starting June 30, 2018 due in the amount $3.13 million for the first eight quarters and increasing thereafter and a five-year revolving credit facility for $400 million.
The Company adopted the new revenue recognition standard as of January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method and applying the new standard to those contracts which were not completed as of January 1, 2018.
The Company applies these terms in its calculation and determination of the fair value of contingent earn out liabilities for purchased businesses as part of the related valuation and purchase price allocation exercise for the corresponding acquired assets and liabilities.
Recognized goodwill pertains to the value of the expected synergies to be derived from combining the operations of the businesses we acquire including the value of the acquired workforce.
Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and the year ended December 31, 2017 are reflected in the following table.
The Company recognizes revenue using periodic reported actual hours worked as a percentage of total expected hours required to complete the project arrangement and applies the percentage to the total arrangement fee.


item2.txt
Goodwill represents the cost in excess of the fair value of the net assets of acquired businesses.
Delivery of the various contractual obligations typically occurs over periods of less than eighteen months.
The transaction-based fees are primarily based on a percentage of payment value processed for solutions such as retail and corporate payments, domestic money transfers, and general purpose reloadable cards.
During the three months ended March 31, 2017 net cash used by financing activities was $6.2 million which consisted of $40.5 million used to repurchase shares of our common stock, $2.4 million was used to pay quarterly dividends to our common stockholders, and $3.13 million was used to make the scheduled payments against the existing term loan with Regions.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018 the Company's reported total operating revenues increased by $29.1 million or 37% to $108.2 million as compared to $79.1 million during the same period in 2017.
The Company derives its revenues primarily from subscription and transaction fees pertaining to services delivered over our exchanges or from our application service provider ("ASP") platforms, fees for risk compliance solution services, and fees for software development projects including associated fees for consulting, implementation, training, and project management provided to customers with installed systems and applications.
At March 31, 2018, the outstanding balance on the term loan was $250.0 million of which $12.5 million is due within the next twelve months, with no payments having been made during the three months ended March 31, 2018.
The Company recognizes revenue using periodic reported actual hours worked as a percentage of total expected hours required to complete the project arrangement and applies the percentage to the total arrangement fee.
In accordance with the relevant FASB accounting guidance, goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized but are tested for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis or on an interim basis if an event occurs or circumstances change that would likely have reduced the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value.
The $8.6 million of restricted fiduciary funds is associated with the EbixHealth JV and pertains to un-remitted insurance premiums and claim funds established for the benefit of various carriers which are held in a fiduciary capacity until disbursed.


item3.txt
Such an adverse change in these interest rates would have resulted in a reduction to pre-tax income of approximately $139 thousand and $155 thousand for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.


item4.txt
In addition to such waiver, the Fourth Amendment also loosened the leverage ratios the Company is required to satisfy in connection with permitted acquisitions and for compliance generally.


part2.txt
None.


