Accounts Receivable and the Allowance for Doubtful Accounts—Reported accounts receivable include $107.0 million of trade receivables stated at invoice billed amounts and $41.3 million of unbilled receivables (net of the estimated allowance for doubtful accounts receivable in the amount of $6.1 million).
The Company has determined that the fair value of the contingent earn-out consideration is $19.4 million as of June 30, 2018.
The acquisition, effective September 1, 2017, was funded in October following the securing of requisite approvals for the closing.
Effective January 1, 2018 Subtopic 340-40 replaced that guidance to require the costs of direct-response advertising to be expensed as they are incurred or the first time the advertising takes place.
This joint venture was established to carry out IT projects in the government sector of the country of India and particularly in regards to the implementation of e-governance projects in the areas of education and healthcare.
Effective June 1, 2017 Ebix acquired the assets of beBetter Health, Inc., ("beBetter"), a technology enabled corporate wellness provider that provides end-to-end wellness solutions offering a variety of tools and programs, including interactive platforms, health screening, coaching, tobacco cessation, weight and stress management, health information, and numerous other products and services.
IHC is, also, a customer of the EbixHealth JV, and during the three and six months ending June 30, 2018 the EbixHealth JV recognized $2.4 million and $4.7 million, respectively, of revenue from IHC, and as of June 30, 2018 the EbixHealth JV had $1.0 million of accounts receivable from IHC.
Accordingly, Ebix acquired an 80% stake in ItzCash for $120 million including upfront cash of $76.3 million plus possible future contingent earn-out payments of up to $44.0 million based on earned revenues over the subsequent thirty-six month period following the effective date of the acquisition.
Additionally, as part of the Wdev Solucoes em Technologia SA ("Wdev") acquisition, upfront cash consideration is being held in an escrow account for the thirty-eight month period following the effective date of the acquisition to ensure that the acquired business achieves the minimum specified annual net revenue threshold, which if not achieved will result in said funds being returned to Ebix.
The valuation and purchase price allocation for the ItzCash acquisition remains preliminary.
unexpected loss if a customer fails to meet its contractual obligations.$4.0 million of the possible future contingent earn-out payments is being held in escrow accounts for the twelve month period following the effective date of the acquisition to ensure that the acquired business achieves the minimum specified annual gross revenue threshold, which if not achieved will result in said funds being returned to Ebix.
The Company derives its revenues primarily from subscription and transaction fees pertaining to services delivered over our exchanges or from our ASP platforms, fees for risk compliance solution services, and fees for software development projects including associated fees for consulting, implementation, training, and project management provided to customers with installed systems and applications.
The Company seeks to execute accretive business acquisitions in combination with organic growth initiatives as part of its comprehensive business growth and expansion strategy.
Interest income decreased $380 thousand or 82% to $85 thousand in the second quarter of 2018 as compared to $465 thousand in the second quarter of 2017 primarily due to interest earned from our EbixCash Financial exchanges included in operating revenue in 2018.
As of June 30, 2018, the total of these contingent liabilities was $21.6 million.
Our principal sources of liquidity are the cash flows provided by the Company's operating activities, the Company's commercial banking credit facility, and cash and cash equivalents on hand.
The Company also has multiple operating facilities and offices in Australia, Brazil, Thailand, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, Canada, Singapore, Dubai, and India.