fls.txt



item1.txt
which has brought in operational synergies and certain redundancies for the acquired operations .
Ltd. ("Indus"), a global provider of enterprise lending software solutions to financial institutions, captive auto finance and telecom companies, for approximately $22.9 million plus possible future contingent earn-out payments of up to $5.0 million based on earned revenues over the subsequent twenty-four month period following the effective date of the acquisition.
However, if a reporting unit’s fair value were to be less than its carrying value, we would then determine the amount of the impairment charge, if any, which would be the amount that the carrying value of the reporting unit’s goodwill exceeded its implied value.
For arrangements that include multiple performance obligations, the Company allocates consideration based on their relative fair values.These types of arrangements include obligations pertaining to software licenses, system set-up, and professional services associated with product customization or modification.
The March 31, 2019 balance primarily consists of $21.3 million funds in an escrow account to acquire the remaining 25.16% publicly-held Weizmann Forex shares pending the lapse of a time bound public offer.
Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries
In accordance with the relevant FASB accounting guidance, goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis or on an interim basis if an event occurred or circumstances change that would indicate that fair value of a reporting unit decreased below its carrying value.
unexpected loss if a customer fails to meet its contractual obligations.
Ebix has a 51% equity interest in the joint venture, and Vayam has a 49% equity interest in the joint venture.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, $484 thousand and $40 thousand, respectively, of accounts receivable, which had been specifically reserved for in prior periods, were written off.
As of March 31, 2019, the amount accrued on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet for the self-insured component of the Company’s employee health insurance was $232 thousand.
The ASU affects all companies and other organizations that lease assets such as real estate, airplanes, and manufacturing equipment.
For operating leases there will have to be the recognition of a lease liability and a lease asset for all such leases greater than one year in term.
On February 10, 2015, defendants filed a Motion to Dismiss the Second Amended Complaint, which was granted in part and denied in part in a Memorandum Opinion and Order issued on January 15, 2016.
The amendments in this ASU are effective for all entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
As the fair value measure is based on significant inputs that are not observable in the market, they are categorized as Level 3.
The Company adheres to such contractually stated performance milestones and accordingly issues invoices to customers as per contract billing schedules.


item2.txt
The valuation and purchase price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, net cash used by financing activities was $481 thousand which consisted of $13.5 million provided by the Company's revolving credit facility with Regions, $2.9 million net proceeds from short term third party loans as part of its EbixCash operations, and $1.1 million net provided by the EbixCash overdraft facility in India.
Amortization and depreciation expenses increased $1.3 million or 45% to $4.1 million in the first quarter of 2019 as compared to $2.8 million in the first quarter of 2018 primarily due to costs associated with the Company's 2019 and 2018 India acquisitions.
The $3.4 million of restricted fiduciary funds is associated with the EbixHealth JV and pertains to un-remitted insurance premiums and claim funds established for the benefit of various carriers which are held in a fiduciary capacity until disbursed.
Reported general and administrative expenses increased $1.9 million or 10% to $21.4 million in the first quarter of 2019 as compared to $19.5 million in the first quarter of 2018 primarily due to costs associated with the Company's 2018 India acquisitions
The valuation and purchase price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.
Ebix is consolidating this recent acquisition into Ebix's Financial Exchange operations which will bring synergies and reduce certain redundancies to the combined operation.
The valuation and purchase price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.
The Company’s technology vision is to focus on the convergence of all channels, processes and entities in a manner such that data seamlessly flows once a data entry has initially been made.


item3.txt
The Company's average cash balances and short term investments during the three months ended March 31, 2019 were $140.0 million and its existing cash balances as of March 31, 2019 were $77.0 million.


item4.txt



part2.txt
filed a Verified Second Amended and Supplemented Class Action and Derivative Complaint (the “Second Amended Complaint”).


