The revolving line of credit balance is included in the long-term liabilities section of the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
ASU 2018-07 is intended to reduce cost and complexity and to improve financial reporting for share-based payments to nonemployees.
The Company is evaluating the impact that this new leasing ASU will have on its financial statements.
In the first nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 these reductions to the contingent accrued earn-out liabilities resulted in a corresponding reduction of $645 thousand and $164 thousand, respectively to general and administrative expenses as reported on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income and a reduction of $13.7 million and $3.4 million, respectively to goodwill as reported in the enclosed Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Ebix is fully consolidating the operations of the Ebix Vayam Limited JV into the Company's financial statements and separately reporting the Vayam minority, non-controlling, interest in the joint venture's net income and equity.
The capital lease will be accounted for in substantially the same manner as capital leases are accounted for under existing GAAP.
The current and long-term portions of the term loan are included in the respective current and long-term sections of the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, the amounts of which were $12.5 million and $231.3 million respectively at September 30, 2018.
Centrum will be tightly integrated into Ebix’s Financial Exchange EbixCash offering in India and abroad, with key Centrum business executives becoming an integral part of the combined EbixCash senior leadership.
As of September 30, 2018 the $18.3 million of consideration for the Miles acquisition was included in other current liabilities of the Company's Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as it was not funded until October 2018.
ASU 2018-07 is intended to reduce cost and complexity and to improve financial reporting for share-based payments to nonemployees.
The Company recognized and recorded bad debt expense in the amount of $524 thousand and $2.6 million for the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and $385 thousand and $1.1 million for the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2017, respectively.Product development expenses increased $2.8 million or 11%, to $28.1 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to $25.3 million during the same period in 2017.
Our cash and cash equivalents were $135.0 million and $63.9 million at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
The Company derives its revenues primarily from subscription and transaction fees pertaining to services delivered over our exchanges or from our ASP platforms, fees for risk compliance solution services, and fees for software development projects including associated fees for consulting, implementation, training, and project management provided to customers with installed systems and applications.
While our Current ratio decreased, our short-term liquidity has primarily increased due to increased cash and cash equivalents and accounts receivables.
In the insurance sector, the Company’s main focus is to develop and deploy a wide variety of insurance and reinsurance exchanges on an on-demand basis, while also, providing SaaS enterprise solutions in the area of CRM, front-end and back-end systems, outsourced administrative and risk compliance.
The Third Amendment waives certain technical defaults related to the Company’s making certain restricted payments in excess of those permitted under the Credit Agreement.
On June 17, 2016, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into the Second Amendment (the “Second Amendment”) to the Credit Agreement, Regions Capital Markets, PNC Capital Markets, LLC, and TD Securities (USA) as joint Lead Arrangers for the syndicate of lenders (the “Regions Secured Credit Facility”).