fls.txt



item1.txt
Upon an Acquisition Event, each of the SARs entitle Mr. Raina to receive a cash payment from the Company equal to the excess, if any, of the net proceeds per share received in connection with the Acquisition Event over the base price of $7.95 per share.
In addition to such waiver, the Third Amendment also loosened the limitations on the restricted payment covenant under the Credit Agreement.
Under the terms of the April SAR Agreement, Mr. Raina is entitled to receive full payment with respect to the SARs if either (i) he is employed by the Company on the closing date of an Acquisition Event or (ii) has been involuntarily terminated by the Company without cause (as defined in the April SAR Agreement) within the 180-day period immediately preceding an Acquisition Event.
The ASU requires organizations that lease assets referred to as “Lessees” to recognize on the balance sheet the assets and liabilities for the rights and obligations created by those leases.
This balance was included in the long-term liabilities section of the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
This joint venture was established to carry out IT projects in the government sector of the country of India and particularly in regards to the implementation of e-governance projects in the areas of education and healthcare.
A public business entity filer should adopt the amendments in this ASU for its annual or any interim goodwill impairment tests in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019.
All of the SARs are forfeited if Mr. Raina’s employment is terminated for any other reason prior to the closing date of an Acquisition Event.
This portion is recognized over the expected useful life of the customizations.
The Sixth Amendment amended the Credit Agreement by increasing its existing credit facility from $450 million to $650 million, to assist in funding its growth.
The Company has determined that the fair value of the contingent earn-out consideration is zero as of June 30, 2019.
Restricted Cash- The carrying value of our restricted cash was $22.6 million and $4.0 million at June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
During the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, there was zero and $59 thousand increase to this liability reserve, respectively.
To simplify the subsequent measurement of goodwill, the FASB eliminated Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test.
The Litigation Settlement includes, among other things, the adoption and entry into the Amended SAR Agreement, as well as certain governance measures set forth in the Settlement Agreement, in each case, effective upon the later of (i) expiration of the period for taking an appeal of the Order, or (ii) final resolution of any such appeal (excluding any appeal from the Order that relates solely to the issue of plaintiffs’ counsels’ application for an award of attorneys' fees and expenses).
Ebix paid $6.0 million and contributed a license to use certain CurePet software and systems valued by the EbixHealth JV at $2.0 million, for its initial 40% membership interest in the EbixHealth JV.


item2.txt
The Company derives its revenues primarily from subscription and transaction fees pertaining to services delivered over our exchanges or from our ASP platforms, fees for business process outsourcing services, and fees for software development projects including associated fees for consulting, implementation, training, and project management provided to customers with installed systems, e-governance solutions to governmental agencies in the health and education sectors, as well as foreign exchange, remittance (both inward and outward) and related services, including travel, from our new financial exchange.
The income tax expense exclusive of discrete items was $4.08 million (7.65%) during the six months ended June 30, 2019.
Amortization and depreciation expenses increased $2.0 million or 37% to $7.3 million during the six months ended June 30, 2019 as compared to $5.3 million during the same period in 2018 primarily due to costs associated with the Company's 2018 India acquisitions.
Indefinite-lived intangible assets represent the fair value of acquired contractual customer relationships for which future cash flows are expected to continue indefinitely.
Interest expense increased $11.0 million or 104% to $21.6 million during the six months ended June 30, 2019 as compared to $10.6 million during the same period in 2018.
•2019 and 2018 pro forma revenue contains actual revenue of the acquired entities before acquisition date, as reported by the sellers, as well as actual revenue of the acquired entities after acquisition, whereas the reported growth in revenues of the acquired entities after acquisition date are only reflected for the period after their acquisition.
The Company's ability to generate significant cash flows from ongoing operating activities is one of its fundamental financial strengths.
Our short-term liquidity has decreased primarily due to a decrease in cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments and an increase in working capital facility and restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents, partially offset by a decrease in other current liabilities and earnout contingencies.
Effective July 1, 2018, Ebix acquired Indus, a global provider of enterprise lending software solutions to financial institutions, captive auto finance and telecom companies, for approximately $22.9 million plus possible future contingent earn-out payments of up to $5.0 million based on earned revenues over the subsequent twenty-four month period following the effective date of the acquisition.
The valuation and purchase price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.


item3.txt
During the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 the net change in the cumulative foreign currency translation account, which is a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss within stockholders’ equity, were unrealized gains (losses) of $7.9 million and $(30.9) million, respectively.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The foregoing description does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Amended SAR Agreement.


