fls.txt
We caution readers not to place undue reliance upon any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made.


item1.txt
Pricing adjustments and estimates of returns are treated as variable consideration for purposes of determining the transaction price.
Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing net income by the weighted average number of shares of the Company’s common stock outstanding during the period.
This newly authorized stock repurchase plan replaced in its entirety the January 31, 2018, stock repurchase program.
Returns under the Company’s general assurance warranty of products have not been material and warranty-related services are not considered a separate performance obligation.
In connection with certain facility leases, the Company has indemnified its lessors for certain claims arising from the facility or the lease.
•Level 2 - Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in markets with insufficient volume or infrequent transactions (less active markets), or model-driven valuations in which all significant inputs are observable or can be derived principally from, or corroborated with, observable market data.
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740), Intra-entity Transfers of an Asset Other than Inventory (“ASU 2016-16”).
The Company has accrued $188.6 million and $206.6 million of the deemed repatriation tax in long-term liabilities within the consolidated balance sheet as of June 28, 2019, and September 28, 2018, respectively.
price to the performance obligations in the contract; and (5) recognizing revenue when the corresponding performance obligation is satisfied.
To date, there have been no material impairment losses on accounts receivable.
The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
In reaching this conclusion, management considers the definition of the chief operating decision maker (“CODM”), how the business is defined by the CODM, the nature of the information provided to the CODM and how that information is used to make operating decisions, allocate resources and assess performance.
This ASU requires that the income statement reflect the measurement of credit losses for newly recognized financial assets as well as the expected increases or decreases of expected credit losses that have taken place during the period.
In connection with certain facility leases, the Company has indemnified its lessors for certain claims arising from the facility or the lease.
The impact of applying the new standard on the Company’s consolidated financial statements for the nine months ended June 28, 2019, was not material, except for an increase in accounts receivable and other current liabilities in the amount of $29.4 million to reflect customer credits as a liability.
Sales returns are generally accepted at the Company’s discretion or from distributors with stock rotation rights.


item2.txt
The effective tax rates for the three and nine months ended June 28, 2019, were 11.0% and 11.6%, respectively, as compared with 7.8% and 36.0% for the three and nine months ended June 29, 2018, respectively.
This report and other documents we have filed with the SEC contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and are subject to the “safe harbor” created by those sections.
We market and sell our products directly to OEMs of communications and electronics products, third-party original design manufacturers and contract manufacturers, and indirectly through electronic components distributors.
•$198.8 million related to the payment of cash dividends on our common stock.
We generated net revenue of $767.0 million for the three months ended June 28, 2019, a decrease of $127.3 million or 14.2%, as compared with $894.3 million for the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
The decrease in cash from operating activities during the nine months ended June 28, 2019, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2018, was primarily related to an increase in working capital.
Selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended June 28, 2019, increased as a percentage of net revenue, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, primarily due to the decrease in net revenue.


item3.txt
Credit risk associated with our investments is not material because our investments are diversified across several types of securities with high credit ratings, which reduces the amount of credit exposure to any one investment.
We may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial institutions to protect against foreign exchange risks associated with certain existing assets and liabilities, certain firmly committed transactions, forecasted future cash flows and net investments in foreign subsidiaries.


item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
Limitations or changes in policy on phone subsidies in the United States, South Korea, Japan, China, and other countries may have additional negative impacts on our revenues.
Finally, we maintain wafer fabrication facilities in Kadoma, Japan, and Osaka, Japan, as well as packaging, assembly and test facilities in Mexicali, Mexico, and in Singapore.
Risk Factors.


