fls.txt
Although forward-looking statements in this report reflect the good faith judgment of our management, such statements can only be based on facts and factors currently known by us.


item1.txt
Significant judgment is required in determining the reserves for and fair value of items such as overall fair value assessments of assets and liabilities, particularly those classified as Level 2 or Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy, marketable securities, inventory, intangible assets associated with business combinations, share-based compensation, loss contingencies, and income taxes.
The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
In certain instances, the Company’s indemnities do not provide for any limitation of the maximum potential future payments the Company could be obligated to make.
This ASU expands the scope of Topic 718 to include share-based payment transactions for acquiring goods and services from nonemployees.
The duration of the indemnities varies, and in many cases is indefinite.
Significant judgment is required in determining the reserves for and fair value of items such as overall fair value assessments of assets and liabilities, particularly those classified as Level 2 or Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy, marketable securities, inventory, intangible assets associated with business combinations, share-based compensation, loss contingencies, and income taxes.
There were no material contract assets or contract liabilities recorded on the consolidated balance sheet in any of the periods presented.
This information should be read in conjunction with the Company’s financial statements and notes thereto contained in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2018, filed with the SEC on November 15, 2018, as amended by Amendment No.
Payments are due within one year of invoicing and do not include a significant financing component.
There have been no transfers between Level 1, 2 or 3 assets or liabilities during the three months ended December 28, 2018.
The shares have been valued utilizing a probability weighted series of Black-Scholes pricing models and could be issued after mid-2020.
The Company has determined the impact of the new revenue standard on its business processes, systems, controls and consolidated financial statements is not material.
There were no changes to the fair value of the Level 3 liabilities during the three months ended December 28, 2018.
Accrued taxes of $71.6 million and $62.5 million have been included in other current liabilities within the consolidated balance sheets as of December 28, 2018, and December 29, 2017, respectively.
The Company records net revenue excluding taxes collected on its sales to trade customers.
To date, there have been no material impairment losses on accounts receivable.
The $224.6 million deemed repatriation tax is payable over the next eight years, $18.0 million per year for each of the next five years, followed by payments of $33.6 million, $44.9 million, and $56.1 million in years six through eight, respectively.


item2.txt
The Company has agreed to file a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission registering the resale of any issued shares.
The increase resulted from $549.0 million in cash generated from operations and $301.0 million in net sales and maturities of marketable securities, partially offset by $284.0 million used to repurchase 4.0 million shares of stock, $67.1 million in cash dividend payments, $19.4 million used to repurchase shares related to payroll tax withholdings on equity awards, and $129.5 million in capital expenditures.
However, we cannot be certain that our cash on hand and cash generated from operations will be available in the future to fund all of our capital and operating requirements.
Gross profit represents net revenue less cost of goods sold.
The transaction was made in reliance on the exemption from registration in Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act.
Consistent with trends in the industry, we anticipate that average selling prices for our established products will continue to decline over time.
•$19.4 million related to the minimum statutory payroll tax withholdings upon vesting of employee performance and restricted stock awards.


item3.txt
municipal bonds, other government securities) that total approximately $13.4 million and $2.7 million within short-term and long-term marketable securities, respectively, as of December 28, 2018.
municipal bonds, other government securities) that total approximately $13.4 million and $2.7 million within short-term and long-term marketable securities, respectively, as of December 28, 2018.


item4.txt
Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the company’s management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.


part2.txt
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


