fls.txt
We urge you to consider the risks and uncertainties discussed in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and the 2017 10-K, under the heading “Risk Factors” and in the other documents we have filed with the SEC in evaluating our forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
We have established a cross-functional team to assess the potential impact of the new revenue standard.
On January 31, 2018, the Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program, pursuant to which the Company is authorized to repurchase up to $1.0 billion of its common stock from time to time prior to January 31, 2020, on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements.
The amount recorded in the statement of operations within selling, general and administrative expense for the six months ended March 30, 2018, is not material.
We are currently evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-15 will have on the consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights.
The shares have been valued utilizing a probability weighted series of Black-Scholes pricing models and could be issued after mid-2020.
Accordingly, the Company revised its estimate of the mandatory deemed repatriation tax on foreign earnings by decreasing the one-time charge from $257.8 million for the three months ended December 29, 2017 to $240.9 million for the six months ended March 30, 2018, due to a change in the interpretation of the definition of cash within the computation.
At March 30, 2018, the Company had $13.9 million accrued to other long-term liabilities for capital equipment, and $22.2 million accrued to accounts payable for capital equipment.
In addition, significant judgment is required in determining whether a potential indicator of impairment of long-lived assets exists and in estimating future cash flows for any necessary impairment testing.
In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-09, Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718), Scope of Modification Accounting.
On May 3, 2018, the Company announced that the Board of Directors had declared a cash dividend on its common stock of $0.32 per share, payable on June 12, 2018, to the Company’s stockholders of record as of the close of business on May 22, 2018.
Financial Statements.
The accompanying unaudited interim consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) for interim financial reporting.
This ASU provides guidance that changes the accounting for income tax effects of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
Skyworks Solutions, Inc., together with its consolidated subsidiaries (“Skyworks” or the “Company”), is empowering the wireless networking revolution.
The Company has made no significant contractual guarantees for the benefit of third parties.


item2.txt
Our invested cash balances primarily consist of highly liquid term deposits and money market funds where the underlying securities primarily consist of United States treasury obligations, United States agency obligations and repurchase agreements collateralized by United States government and agency obligations.
This increase in net revenue for the three and six months ended March 30, 2018, is primarily related to an increase in demand for our components from a key smartphone customer as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, offset by decreases in average selling prices.
These uses of cash were partially offset by the net proceeds from employee stock option exercises of $32.3 million during the six months ended March 30, 2018.
We generally experience seasonal peaks during the second half of the calendar year, primarily as a result of increased worldwide production of consumer electronics in anticipation of increased holiday sales, whereas our second fiscal quarter is typically lower and in line with seasonal industry trends.
We recorded a provision for income taxes of $16.3 million (which consisted of $7.8 million and $8.5 million related to United States and foreign income taxes, respectively) and $331.5 million (which consisted of $312.7 million and $18.8 million related to United States and foreign income taxes, respectively) for the three and six months ended March 30, 2018, respectively.
The Company has agreed to file a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission registering the resale of any issued shares.
Though the timing is not certain, the Company does not expect achievement of the product sale milestones to occur any time prior to mid-2020.
We recorded a provision for income taxes of $16.3 million (which consisted of $7.8 million and $8.5 million related to United States and foreign income taxes, respectively) and $331.5 million (which consisted of $312.7 million and $18.8 million related to United States and foreign income taxes, respectively) for the three and six months ended March 30, 2018, respectively.


item3.txt
Our cash equivalent investments have short-term maturity periods that dampen the impact of market or interest rate risk.
Conversely, decreases in the value of the United States dollar relative to other currencies could result in our suppliers raising their prices to continue doing business with us.


item4.txt
Based on management’s evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of March 30, 2018, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that, as of such date, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level.


part2.txt
On November 15, 2017, we agreed to potentially issue not more than 1% of our common stock to an unaffiliated third party as contingent consideration for its role under a multi-year collaboration agreement.
The transaction was made in reliance on the exemption from registration in Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act.


