fls.txt
Additionally, statements concerning future matters such as the development of new products, enhancements of technologies, sales levels, expense levels and other statements regarding matters that are not historical are forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
The Company measures certain assets and liabilities at fair value on a recurring basis such as its financial instruments.
On November 15, 2017, the Company agreed to potentially issue not more than 1% of our common stock to an unaffiliated third party as a contingent consideration for its role under a multi-year collaboration agreement, upon the achievement of certain product sales milestones.
The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights.
Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing net income by the weighted average number of shares of the Company’s common stock outstanding during the period.
1 to such Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the SEC on January 26, 2018 (the “2017 10-K”).
The calculation of diluted earnings per share includes the dilutive effect of equity based awards that were outstanding during the three months ended December 29, 2017, and December 30, 2016, using the treasury stock method.
The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights.
The calculation of diluted earnings per share includes the dilutive effect of equity based awards that were outstanding during the three months ended December 29, 2017, and December 30, 2016, using the treasury stock method.
The first quarters of fiscal year 2018 and fiscal year 2017 each consisted of 13 weeks and ended on December 29, 2017, and December 30, 2016, respectively.
In certain instances, the Company’s indemnities do not provide for any limitation of the maximum potential future payments the Company could be obligated to make.


item2.txt
We generated net revenue of $1,051.9 million for the three months ended December 29, 2017, an increase of $137.6 million or 15%, as compared with $914.3 million for the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017.
Gross profit represents net revenue less cost of goods sold.
Article II, Section 3 of the By-laws has been amended to permit stockholders who, individually or in the aggregate, own at least 25% of our outstanding shares of common stock and who have held such shares continuously for at least one year prior to their request, to call a special meeting of stockholders, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the By-laws.
Selling, general and administrative expense decreased as a percentage of net revenue when compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017 primarily due to the increase in net revenue.
We market and sell our products directly to original equipment manufacturers of communications and electronics products, third-party original design manufacturers and contract manufacturers, and indirectly through electronic components distributors.
We generally experience seasonal peaks during the second half of the calendar year, primarily as a result of increased worldwide production of consumer electronics in anticipation of increased holiday sales, whereas our second fiscal quarter is typically lower and in line with seasonal industry trends.
The $72.9 million increase in gross profit for the three months ended December 29, 2017, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, was primarily the result of favorable product mix and higher unit volumes that positively impacted gross profit by $81.2 million.
These uses of cash were partially offset by the net proceeds from employee stock option exercises of $14.4 million during the three months ended December 29, 2017.
We currently expect to fund the repurchase program using our working capital.
The Compensation Committee approved the change in metrics in light of the favorable impact on the Company’s non-GAAP EPS for fiscal year 2018 that is now expected as a result of the new U.S. tax legislation, which was enacted on December 22, 2017, as well as the potential favorable impact on non-GAAP EPS of the Company’s new stock repurchase program.


item3.txt
We are currently evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-02 will have on the consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
The effective date for the standard is for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted.
The ASU provides guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting in Topic 718.
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
Our assessment will be completed during fiscal year 2018 at which time the method of adoption will be selected.


item4.txt
The term “disclosure controls and procedures,” as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms.


part2.txt
Item 2.
Article II, Section 3 of the By-laws has been amended to permit stockholders who, individually or in the aggregate, own at least 25% of our outstanding shares of common stock and who have held such shares continuously for at least one year prior to their request, to call a special meeting of stockholders, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the By-laws.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


