fls.txt
We have no plans, and undertake no obligation, to revise or update our forward-looking statements to reflect any event or circumstance that may arise after the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.


item1.txt
This ASU requires lessees to reflect most leases on their balance sheet as assets and obligations.
Financial Statements.
The Company has made no significant contractual guarantees for the benefit of third parties.
The Company has determined the impact of the new revenue standard on its business processes, systems, controls and consolidated financial statements is not material.
The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
This ASU requires that the income statement reflect the measurement of credit losses for newly recognized financial assets as well as the expected increases or decreases of expected credit losses that have taken place during the period.
The Company will utilize the modified retrospective method and will recognize any cumulative effect adjustment in retained earnings at the beginning of the period of adoption.
As of March 29, 2019, $1.9 billion remained available under the existing stock repurchase authorization.
The Company adopted ASU 2018-15, on a prospective basis, during the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
This ASU requires that the income statement reflect the measurement of credit losses for newly recognized financial assets as well as the expected increases or decreases of expected credit losses that have taken place during the period.
The Company adopted ASU 2018-07 during the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
This ASU requires that the income statement reflect the measurement of credit losses for newly recognized financial assets as well as the expected increases or decreases of expected credit losses that have taken place during the period.
The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740), Intra-entity Transfers of an Asset Other than Inventory (“ASU 2016-16”).
The Company has a single reportable operating segment which designs, develops, manufactures and markets similar proprietary semiconductor products, including intellectual property.
There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in the 2018 10-K.
recognition is determined as products manufactured under non-cancellable orders create an asset with an alternative use to the Company.


item2.txt
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
The decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses for the three and six months ended March 29, 2019, as compared with the corresponding periods in fiscal 2018, was primarily related to a decrease in share-based compensation expense.
We recorded a provision for income taxes of $27.3 million (which consisted of $21.3 million and $6.0 million related to United States and foreign income taxes, respectively) and $66.3 million (which consisted of $50.9 million and $15.4 million related to United States and foreign income taxes, respectively) for the three and six months ended March 29, 2019, respectively.
The decrease in cash from operating activities during the six months ended March 29, 2019, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2018, was primarily related to an increase in working capital.
We generated net revenue of $810.4 million for the three months ended March 29, 2019, a decrease of $103.0 million or 11.3%, as compared with $913.4 million for the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
Purchases of marketable securities were $166.7 million and sales and maturities of marketable securities were $309.2 million during the six months ended March 29, 2019.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.


item3.txt
Credit risk associated with our investments is not material because our investments are diversified across several types of securities with high credit ratings, which reduces the amount of credit exposure to any one investment.
Credit risk associated with our investments is not material because our investments are diversified across several types of securities with high credit ratings, which reduces the amount of credit exposure to any one investment.


item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
Exhibits.
The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights.


