fls.txt
We have no plans, and undertake no obligation, to revise or update our forward-looking statements to reflect any event or circumstance that may arise after the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.


item1.txt
From time to time the Company may also be involved in legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business.
This ASU expands the scope of Topic 718 to include share-based payment transactions for acquiring goods and services from nonemployees.
Certain prior period amounts in the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows have been reclassified to conform to current period presentation.
Certain information and footnote disclosures, normally included in annual consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”), have been condensed or omitted pursuant to those rules and regulations.
This ASU requires that credit losses of debt securities designated as available-for-sale be recorded through an allowance for credit losses.
In certain instances, the Company’s indemnities do not provide for any limitation of the maximum potential future payments the Company could be obligated to make.
Accordingly, the Company revised its estimate of the mandatory deemed repatriation tax on foreign earnings by decreasing the one-time charge from $257.8 million for the three months ended December 29, 2017, to $238.0 million for the nine months ended June 29, 2018, primarily due to a change in the interpretation of the definition of cash within the computation.
Forfeitures in the future will now be recorded as a benefit in the period they are realized.
At June 29, 2018, the Company had $13.9 million accrued to other long-term liabilities for capital equipment, and $28.0 million accrued to accounts payable for capital equipment.
The effective date for the standard is for fiscal years beginning after December, 15, 2017, on a modified retrospective basis, and early adoption is permitted.
The $19.8 million measurement period adjustment reduced the effective tax rate by 2.0% for the nine months ended June 29, 2018.
There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in the 2017 10-K.
•Level 2 - Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in markets with insufficient volume or infrequent transactions (less active markets), or model-driven valuations in which all significant inputs are observable or can be derived principally from, or corroborated with, observable market data.
The accompanying unaudited interim consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) for interim financial reporting.
This ASU will be effective for the Company in the first quarter of 2021, with early adoption permitted.
Additional time is needed to gather the information necessary to finalize the computations of the impact of the new tax legislation.
The Company is currently evaluating the effect ASU 2018-07 will have on the consolidated financial statements.


item2.txt
During the nine months ended June 29, 2018, we generated $1,053.0 million of cash from operating activities, an increase of $14.3 million as compared with the $1,038.7 million generated during the nine months ended June 30, 2017.
Cash used in investing activities consists primarily of capital expenditures and cash paid related to the purchase of marketable securities, offset by cash received related to the sale or maturity of marketable securities.
See Note 7 for a detailed discussion of the impact of the new U.S. tax legislation, including an adjustment made in the nine months ended June 29, 2018, to our provisional estimate related to the mandatory deemed repatriation tax on foreign earnings.
Erosion of average selling prices of established products is typical of the semiconductor industry.
We recorded a provision for income taxes of $24.3 million (which consisted of $16.0 million and $8.3 million related to United States and foreign income taxes, respectively) and $355.8 million (which consisted of $328.7 million and $27.1 million related to United States and foreign income taxes, respectively) for the three and nine months ended June 29, 2018, respectively.
Purchases of marketable securities were $523.2 million and sales and maturities of marketable securities were $32.6 million during the nine months ended June 29, 2018.
•$524.5 million related to our repurchase of 5.1 million shares of our common stock pursuant to the stock repurchase programs approved by our Board of Directors on January 31, 2018, and January 19, 2017;
Selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended June 29, 2018, decreased as a percentage of net revenue, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, due to the aforementioned decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses.


item3.txt
Conversely, decreases in the value of the United States dollar relative to other currencies could result in our suppliers raising their prices to continue doing business with us.
A percentage of our international operational expenses are denominated in foreign currencies and exchange rate volatility could positively or negatively impact those operating costs.


item4.txt
Management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives and management necessarily applies its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures.


part2.txt
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


