fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying consolidated financial statements, in the opinion of management, include all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring accruals, necessary for a fair presentation of the results for the interim periods presented.
The Company’s results for the three and six-month periods ended March 31, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results for the entire 2019 fiscal year.
We recorded a $4.2 million adjustment to increase retained earnings to reflect the cumulative impact of adopting this standard at the beginning of fiscal year 2019, primarily related to certain long-term contracts our Filtration and Technical Packaging segments have that converted to the cost-to-cost method for revenue recognition.
A reconciliation of the financial statement line items impacted for the three and six months ended March 31, 2019 under ASC 606 to the prior accounting standards is provided in Note 14.
Revenue is recognized when control of the goods or services promised under the contract is transferred to the customer either at a point in time (e.g., upon delivery) or over time (e.g., as we perform under the contract).
A performance obligation is a promise to transfer a distinct good or service to a customer and represents the unit of accounting for revenue recognition.
For contracts with multiple performance obligations, the expected consideration, or the transaction price, is allocated to each performance obligation identified in the contract based on the relative standalone selling price of each performance obligation.
Revenue is then recognized for the transaction price allocated to the performance obligation when control of the promised goods or services underlying the performance obligation is transferred.
Approximately 52% of the segment’s revenues (approximately 19% of consolidated revenues) are accounted for over time as the product does not have an alternative use and the Company has an enforceable right to payment for costs incurred plus a reasonable margin or the inventory is owned by the customer.
The contracts may contain multiple products, which are capable of being distinct as the customer could benefit from each product on its own or together with other readily available resources.
Selecting the method to measure progress towards completion for the commercial and military contracts requires judgment and is based on the nature of the products or service to be provided.
We generally use the cost-to-cost method to measure progress for our Filtration segment contracts the rate at which costs are incurred to fulfill a contract best depicts the transfer of control to the customer.
Under this measure, the extent of progress towards completion is measured based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to the estimated costs at completion of the performance obligation, and revenue is recorded proportionally as costs are incurred based on an estimated profit margin.
These variable amounts generally are awarded upon achievement of certain performance metrics, program milestones or cost targets and can be based upon customer discretion.
Our cost estimation process is based on the professional knowledge and experience of engineers and program managers along with finance professionals.
Under the typical payment terms of our long term fixed price contracts, the customer pays us either performance-based or progress payments.
Performance-based payments represent interim payments based on quantifiable measures of performance or on the achievement of specified events or milestones.
This method recognizes the cumulative effect of changes on current and prior periods with the impact of the change from inception-to-date recorded in the current period.


item2.txt
References to the second quarters of 2019 and 2018 represent the three-month periods ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
In the first six months of 2019, net sales of $376.5 million were $28.2 million, or 8.1%, higher than the $348.3 million in the first six months of 2018.
In the first six months of 2019, net sales of $145.7 million were $19.9 million, or 15.8%, higher than the $125.8 million in the first six months of 2018.
The increase in the second quarter and first six months of 2019 compared to the corresponding periods of 2018 was primarily due to higher sales from the segment’s U.S. operations due to the timing of test and measurement chamber projects.
Of the new orders received in the second quarter of 2019, $100.8 million related to Filtration products, $57.6 million related to Test products, $51.0 million related to USG products, and $22.3 million related to Technical Packaging products.
The Company received new orders totaling $429.8 million in the first six months of 2019 compared to $387.8 million in the first six months of 2018.
Of the new orders received in the first six months of 2019, $184.5 million related to Filtration products, $103.0 million related to Test products, $103.0 million related to USG products, and $39.3 million related to Technical Packaging products.
Of the new orders received in the first six months of 2018, $133.2 million related to Filtration products, $106.4 million related to Test products, $110.1 million related to USG products, and $38.1 million related to Technical Packaging products.
Amortization expenses consist of amortization of acquired intangible assets from acquisitions and other identifiable intangible assets (primarily software).
The increase in amortization expense in the first six months of 2019 compared to the first six months of 2018 was mainly due to an increase in amortization of intangibles related to the Manta acquisition.


item3.txt
In 2018, the Company entered into three interest rate swaps with a notional amount of $150 million to hedge some of its exposure to variability in future LIBOR-based interest payments on variable rate debt.


item4.txt



