The first quarter of fiscal 2018 ended on April 1, 2018 and the first quarter of fiscal 2017 ended on April 2, 2017.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“U.S.
The Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations for the three months ended April 1, 2018 is not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full fiscal year.
The Company's significant accounting policies are described under Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017. increase the transparency and improve comparability by requiring entities to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for all leases, with certain exceptions.
In May 2014, the FASB issued an ASU on revenue from contracts with customers, ASU No.
2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” (“Topic 606”).
On January 1, 2018, we adopted Topic 606 using the modified retrospective method applied to all contracts that are not completed contracts at the date of initial application (i.e., January 1, 2018).
Results for reporting periods after January 1, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historic accounting under Topic 605.
These adjustment and allowances are accounted for as variable consideration.
We estimate these amounts based on the expected amount to be provided to customers and reduce revenue recognized.
For NRE arrangements, we allocate revenue to each performance obligation based on its relative standalone selling price.
The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
In November 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-18 Restricted Cash, which requires amounts generally described as restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents be included with cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the total beginning and ending amounts for the periods shown on the statement of cash flows.Cypress Semiconductor Corporation (“Cypress” or “the Company”) manufactures and sells advanced embedded system solutions for automotive, industrial, smart home appliances, consumer electronics and medical products.
MCD focuses on high-performance microcontroller (MCU), analog and wireless and wired connectivity solutions.
The portfolio includes Traveo™ automotive MCUs, PSoC® programmable MCUs and general-purpose MCUs with ARM® Cortex®-M4, -M3, -M0+ and R4 CPUs, analog PMIC Power Management ICs, CapSense® capacitive-sensing controllers, TrueTouch® touchscreen, Wi-Fi®, Bluetooth®, Bluetooth Low Energy and ZigBee® solutions and the WICED® development platform, and a broad line of USB controllers, including solutions for the USB-C and USB Power Delivery (PD) standards.Our debt obligations consist of a variety of financial instruments that expose us to interest rate risk, including, but not limited to our revolving credit facility, Term Loans and Exchangeable Notes.