fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") and include the accounts of Cypress Semiconductor Corporation and its subsidiaries.
These financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included in Cypress' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017.
The year-end condensed balance sheet data was derived from audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by GAAP.
The Company's significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
In May 2014, the FASB issued an ASU on revenue from contracts with customers, ASU No.
2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)."
Collectively, we refer to ASU No.
On January 1, 2018, we adopted Topic 606 using the modified retrospective method applied to all contracts that are not completed contracts at the date of initial application (i.e., January 1, 2018).
Results for reporting periods after January 1, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historic accounting under Topic 605.
There was no impact on the opening accumulated deficit as of January 1, 2018 due to the adoption of Topic 606.
We reclassified the sales return reserve to current liabilities presented as "Price adjustment and other revenue reserves" from the allowance for accounts receivable due to the adoption of Topic 606.
Revenues are recognized when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services.
These adjustments and allowances are accounted for as variable consideration.
We estimate these amounts based on the expected amount to be provided to customers and reduce revenue recognized.
Our non-recurring engineering ("NRE") contracts with customers may include multiple performance obligations.


item2.txt
Cypress’ superior connectivity, flexible computing, fail-safe storage, and secure, ultra-low power solutions help developers bring their smart products to market quickly and easily.
Cypress is committed to providing customers with the best support and development resources enabling them to disrupt markets by creating new product categories in record time.
This division also includes our subsidiary AgigA Tech Inc.
Revenues recorded by MCD increased by $8.0 million, or 2.2%, in the three months ended July 1, 2018 compared to the same prior year period.
Revenues recorded by MCD increased by $26.8 million, or 4.0%, in the six months ended July 1, 2018 compared to the same prior year period.
The overall ASP of our products for MCD for the six months ended July 1, 2018 was $1.02 which decreased by $0.07, compared with the same prior year period primarily due to changes in product mix.


item3.txt
Our debt obligations consist of a variety of financial instruments that expose us to interest rate risk, including, but not limited to our revolving credit facility, term loans and exchangeable notes.
Interest on the exchangeable notes is fixed and interest on our term loans is at variable rates.


item4.txt
Based on the evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures required by Rules 13a-15(b) or 15d-15(b) under the Exchange Act, our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer have concluded that, due to a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting described in Part II, Item 9A of our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K, our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of July 1, 2018.


part2.txt
•restrictions on repatriation of cash earned in countries outside the U.S.; •inadequate levels of compliance with applicable anti-bribery laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
For example, our sales were impacted in the second quarter of 2018 when the U.S. Department of Commerce banned U.S. companies from providing exports to ZTE, a Chinese telecoms equipment manufacturer (which ban was subsequently lifted in the third quarter of 2018) in an export controls case.


