fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company ends its quarters on the Sunday closest to the end of the applicable calendar quarter, except in a 53-week fiscal year, in which case the additional week falls into the fourth quarter of that fiscal year.
The second quarter of fiscal 2019 ended on June 30, 2019 and the second quarter of fiscal 2018 ended on July 1, 2018.
In the opinion of management, the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments of a normal, recurring nature, which are necessary to state fairly the financial information included therein.
Subject to approval by Cypress's stockholders and the relevant regulatory bodies as well as other customary closing conditions, the Merger Agreement provides for Merger Sub to merge with and into the Company, with the Company continuing as the surviving corporation in the Merger and as a wholly owned subsidiary of Infineon.
The Company’s classes of assets include real estate leases and equipment leases.
Operating leases are included in operating lease right-of-use ("ROU") assets, other current liabilities, and operating lease liabilities in the Company's consolidated balance sheets.
Finance leases are included in property and equipment, current portion of long-term debt, revolving credit facility and long-term portion of debt in the Company's consolidated balance sheets.
The Company has elected the practical expedient within ASC Topic 842 to not separate lease and non-lease components within lease transactions for all classes of assets.
assets, does not apply the recognition requirements for leases of 12 months or less, and recognizes lease payments for short-term leases as expense either straight-line over the lease term or as incurred depending on whether the lease payments are fixed or variable.
The terms and conditions of the subleases are commensurate with the terms and conditions within the original operating leases.
Other significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2018.
The standard introduces new requirements to increase transparency and comparability among organizations for leasing transactions for both lessees and lessors.
2016-02 requires a lessee to record a right-of-use ("ROU") asset and a lease liability for all leases with terms longer than 12 months.
On June 3, 2019, Infineon, Merger Sub and the Company entered into the Merger Agreement, which provides for Merger Sub, upon the closing of the transaction, to merge with and into the Company (the "Merger"), with the Company continuing as the surviving corporation in the Merger and as a wholly owned subsidiary of Infineon.
Subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement, at the effective time of the Merger (the "Effective Time"), each share of common stock of Cypress ("Cypress Common Stock") that is issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time (other than shares of Cypress Common Stock (a) owned by Infineon, Merger Sub or any other direct or indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Infineon, (b) owned by Cypress, including any shares held in treasury by Cypress, (c) owned by any direct or indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Cypress and (d) owned by stockholders who have perfected and not withdrawn a demand for appraisal rights pursuant to Section 262 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware) will be converted into the right to receive $23.85 in cash, without interest.
law prohibiting or order preventing the consummation of the Merger, (iii) the receipt of clearance from the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, the expiration or termination of any applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, the receipt of any applicable clearance or affirmative approval by the Anti-Monopoly Bureau of the State Administration for Market Regulation in the People’s Republic of China, approval from the European Commission under the European Merger Regulation, and the expiration of any applicable waiting periods or any applicable authorizations or affirmative approvals of certain other non-U.S. governmental authorities under antitrust laws; (iv) the absence of a material adverse effect with respect to Cypress; and (v) compliance in all material respects on the part of each of Cypress and Infineon with such party’s covenants under the Merger Agreement.
Infineon will be required to pay to the Company a termination fee equal to $425 million under certain specified circumstances upon termination of the Merger Agreement.
Revenue for the three months and six months ended June 30, 2019 reflects divestment of the Company's NAND business to SkyHigh Memory Limited ("SkyHigh"), a newly formed joint venture, which was completed on April 1, 2019.
The allocation was based on the relative estimated enterprise value of the NAND business and that of the MPD business.


item2.txt
Microcontroller and Connectivity Division  MCD focuses on connectivity and computing solutions for the Internet of Things and automotive solutions that enhance the in-cabin user experience.
The portfolio includes specialized, high-performance parallel and serial NOR flash memories, static random access memories ("SRAM"), F-RAM™ ferroelectric memory devices, nonvolatile SRAMs ("nvSRAM"), and other specialty memories.
This division also includes our nonvolatile DIMM subsidiary AgigA Tech, Inc.
Refer to Part I, Item 1 (Business) in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2018 for a discussion of our strategies.
Our total revenue decreased by $91.9 million, or 14.7%, to $532.2 million in the three months ended June 30, 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year.


item3.txt
Our debt obligations consist of a variety of financial instruments that expose us to interest rate risk, including, but not limited to our revolving credit facility, term loans and exchangeable notes.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The information required by this item is included in Note 13 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I Item 1, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and is incorporated herein by reference.
In that case, lengthy negotiations may ensue among these regulatory or governmental entities, Infineon and us, which could delay the closing (and any receipt of Merger consideration) and increase the risk that the merger might not be completed.
Our joint venture for NAND flash memory products might not be successful.


