fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company ends its quarters on the Sunday closest to the end of the applicable calendar quarter, except in a 53-week fiscal year, in which case the additional week falls into the fourth quarter of that fiscal year.
The third quarter of fiscal 2019 ended on September 29, 2019 and the third quarter of fiscal 2018 ended on September 30, 2018.
The difference between the carrying value of the noncontrolling interest at the date of the acquisition and the total consideration was recorded as a decrease in "Additional paid-in capital" in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The Company will, consistent with the presentation in prior periods, continue to report AgigA's financial results under its Memory Products Division.
Subject to approval by Cypress's stockholders and the relevant regulatory bodies as well as other customary closing conditions, the Merger Agreement provides for Merger Sub to merge with and into the Company, with the Company continuing as the surviving corporation in the Merger and as a wholly owned subsidiary of Infineon.
The Company’s classes of assets include real estate leases and equipment leases.
Operating leases are included in operating lease right-of-use ("ROU") assets, other current liabilities, and operating lease liabilities in the Company's consolidated balance sheets.
Finance leases are included in property and equipment, current portion of long-term debt, revolving credit facility and long-term portion of debt in the Company's consolidated balance sheets.
The Company has elected the practical expedient within ASC Topic 842 to not separate lease and non-lease components within lease transactions for all classes of assets.
Additionally, the Company has elected the short-term lease exception for all classes of assets, does not apply the recognition requirements for leases of 12 months or less, and recognizes lease payments for short-term leases as expense either straight-line over the lease term or as incurred depending on whether the lease payments are fixed or variable.
The terms and conditions of the subleases are commensurate with the terms and conditions within the original operating leases.
Other significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2018.
The standard introduces new requirements to increase transparency and comparability among organizations for leasing transactions for both lessees and lessors.
2016-02 requires a lessee to record a right-of-use ("ROU") asset and a lease liability for all leases with terms longer than 12 months.
The Company adopted ASC Topic 842, as of December 31, 2018 and applied the alternative modified retrospective transition method requiring application of the new guidance to all leases existing at, or entered into on or after, the date of adoption, i.e. December 31, 2018.
As a result of adoption of this standard, and election of the transition practical expedients, the Company recognized ROU assets and lease liabilities for those leases classified as operating leases under ASC Topic 840 that continued to be classified as operating leases under ASC Topic 842 at the date of initial application.
On June 3, 2019, Infineon, Merger Sub and the Company entered into the Merger Agreement, which provides for Merger Sub, upon the closing of the transaction, to merge with and into the Company (the "Merger"), with the Company continuing as the surviving corporation in the Merger and as a wholly owned subsidiary of Infineon.
Infineon will be required to pay to the Company a termination fee equal to $425 million under certain specified circumstances upon termination of the Merger Agreement.
The Company incurred approximately $3.0 million and $11.4 million in bankers fees, legal fees, employee-related costs and travel expenses in connection with the proposed Merger during the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019, respectively.
If the proposed Merger does not close, under circumstances in which the Company receives a reverse break-up fee, bankers fees of approximately $22.2 million are contingently payable by Cypress.


item2.txt
Cypress is committed to providing customers with quality support and engineering resources.
Microcontroller and Connectivity Division  MCD focuses on connectivity and computing solutions for the Internet of Things and automotive solutions that enhance the in-cabin user experience.
The portfolio includes specialized, high-performance parallel and serial NOR flash memories, static random access memories ("SRAM"), F-RAM™ ferroelectric memory devices, nonvolatile SRAMs ("nvSRAM"), nonvolatile DIMM (''NVDIMM"), PowerGEM® energy modules and other specialty memories.
Refer to Part I, Item 1 (Business) in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2018 for a discussion of our strategies.
Our total revenue decreased by $98.5 million, or 14.6%, to $574.5 million in the three months ended September 29, 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year.


item3.txt
Our investment portfolio consists of a variety of financial instruments that expose us to interest rate risk, including, but not limited to, money market funds, and certificates of deposit.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Regulatory and governmental entities may impose conditions on the granting of the required regulatory clearances and approvals described above.
The joint venture entity, SkyHigh Memory Limited ("SkyHigh"), is controlled by SKHS.
•During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, we determined that our investment in Enovix Corporation, which is accounted for as an equity method investment, was other-than temporarily impaired as Enovix did not achieve key planned product development milestones.


