Item 4.Controls and Procedures.
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
We maintain disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to provide reasonable assurance that the information required to be disclosed by us in reports that we file or submit under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the rules and forms promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Because of the inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system of disclosure controls and procedures, no evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, with a company have been prevented or detected on a timely basis.
Even disclosure controls and procedures determined to be effective can only provide reasonable assurance that their objectives are achieved.
As of the end of the period covered by this report, we carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e)) pursuant to Rule 13a-15 of the Exchange Act.
Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective at the reasonable assurance level.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting
 There were no changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f)) during the quarter ended September 30, 2018 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
We implemented internal controls to ensure we adequately evaluated our contracts and properly assessed the impact of the new accounting standard related to revenue recognition on our financial statements to facilitate adoption on January 1, 2018.
There were no significant changes to our internal controls over financial reporting due to the adoption of the new standard.
Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures.
Not applicable.
Item 5.Other Information.
None.
Item 6.Exhibits.
3.1 Certificate of Incorporation (filed as Exhibit 3.4 to CPSI’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No.
333-84726) and incorporated herein by reference)
3.2 Amended and Restated Bylaws (filed as Exhibit 3 to CPSI’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 28, 2013 and incorporated herein by reference)
31.1 Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
31.2 Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
32.1 Certifications of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
101 Interactive Data Files for CPSI’s Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2018
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
