Item 2.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere herein.
This discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements can be identified generally by the use of forward-looking terminology and words such as "expects," "anticipates," "estimates," "believes," "predicts," "intends," "plans," "potential," "may," "continue," "should," "will" and words of comparable meaning.
Without limiting the generality of the preceding statement, all statements in this report relating to estimated and projected earnings, margins, costs, expenditures, cash flows, growth rates and future financial results are forward-looking statements.
We caution investors that any such forward-looking statements are only predictions and are not guarantees of future performance.
Certain risks, uncertainties and other factors may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.
Such factors may include:

•overall business and economic conditions affecting the healthcare industry, including the effects of the federal healthcare reform legislation enacted in 2010, and implementing regulations, on the businesses of our hospital customers;

•government regulation of our products and services and the healthcare and health insurance industries, including changes in healthcare policy affecting Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates and qualifying technological standards;

•changes in customer purchasing priorities, capital expenditures and demand for information technology systems;

•saturation of our target market and hospital consolidations;

•general economic conditions, including changes in the financial and credit markets that may affect the availability and cost of credit to us or our customers;

•our substantial indebtedness, and our ability to incur additional indebtedness in the future;

•our potential inability to generate sufficient cash in order to meet our debt service obligations;

•restrictions on our current and future operations because of the terms of our senior secured credit facilities;

•market risks related to interest rate changes;

•competition with companies that have greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have;

•failure to develop new technology and products in response to market demands;

•failure of our products to function properly resulting in claims for medical and other losses;

•breaches of security and viruses in our systems resulting in customer claims against us and harm to our reputation;

•failure to maintain customer satisfaction through new product releases free of undetected errors or problems;

•failure to convince customers to migrate to current or future releases of our products;


•our ability to attract and retain qualified client service and support personnel;

•failure to properly manage growth in new markets we may enter;

•misappropriation of our intellectual property rights and potential intellectual property claims and litigation against us;

•changes in accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America;

•significant charge to earnings if our goodwill or intangible assets become impaired; and

•fluctuations in quarterly financial performance due to, among other factors, timing of customer installations.
Additional information concerning these and other factors that could cause differences between forward-looking statements and future actual results is discussed under the heading "Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
Background


•Evident, which makes up our Acute Care EHR reporting segment, provides comprehensive acute care electronic health record ("EHR") solutions, Thrive and Centriq, and related services for community hospitals and their physician clinics.
•AHT, which makes up our Post-acute Care EHR reporting segment, provides a comprehensive post-acute care EHR solution and related services for skilled nursing and assisted living facilities.
•TruBridge, our third reporting segment, focuses on providing business management, consulting, and managed IT services along with its complete revenue cycle management ("RCM") solution for all care settings, regardless of their primary healthcare information solutions provider.
•Get Real Health, included within our TruBridge segment, delivers technology solutions to improve patient outcomes and engagement strategies with care providers.
Our companies currently support approximately 1,000 acute care facilities and approximately 3,300 post-acute care facilities with a geographically diverse customer mix within the domestic community healthcare market.
Our clients primarily consist of community hospitals with fewer than 200 acute care beds, with hospitals having fewer than 100 beds comprising approximately 98% of our acute care EHR client base.
See Note 16 to the condensed consolidated financial statements included herein for additional information on our three reportable segments.
Management Overview

 Through much of our history, our strategy has been to achieve meaningful long-term revenue growth through sales of healthcare IT systems and related services to existing and new clients within our target market.
Prospectively, our ability to continue to realize long-term revenue growth is largely dependent on our ability to sell new and additional products and services to our existing customer base, including cross-selling opportunities presented between our operating segments, Acute Care EHR, Post-acute Care EHR, and TruBridge.
As a result, retention of existing EHR customers is a key component of our long-term growth strategy by protecting this base of potential cross-sell customers, while at the same time serving as a leading indicator of our market position and stability of revenues and cash flows.
Additionally, as we consider the long-term growth prospects of our business, we are seeking to further stabilize our revenues and cash flows and leverage TruBridge services as a growth agent in light of a relatively mature EHR marketplace.
As a result, we are placing ever-increasing value in further developing our already significant recurring revenue base.
As such, maintaining and growing recurring revenues are additional key components of our long-term growth strategy, aided by the aforementioned focus on customer retention, and includes a renewed focus on driving demand for subscriptions for our existing technology solutions.
Our business model is designed such that, as revenue growth materializes, earnings and profitability growth are naturally bolstered through the increased margin realization afforded us by operating leverage.
Once a hospital has installed our solutions, we continue to provide support services to the customer on a continuing basis and make available to the customer our broad portfolio of business management, consulting, and managed IT services, all of which contribute to recurring revenue growth.
The provision of these recurring revenue services typically requires fewer resources than the initial system installation, resulting in increased overall gross margins and operating margins.
We also look to increase margins through cost containment measures where appropriate as we continue to leverage opportunities for greater operating efficiencies of the combined entity.
For example, during the first quarter of 2018, we further integrated our acute care product lines into a combined client support group.
Using best practices of the combined companies' implementation processes, we have decreased travel costs for our acute care installations by approximately 25%.
Also, during the third quarter of 2018, we instituted a limited-time, voluntary severance program offering those employees meeting certain predetermined criteria severance packages involving continuing periodic cash payments and healthcare benefits for varying periods, depending upon the individual's years of service with the Company.
Turbulence in the U.S. and worldwide economies and financial markets impacts almost all industries.
While the healthcare industry is not immune to economic cycles, we believe it is more significantly affected by U.S. regulatory and national health initiatives than by the economic cycles of our economy.
Additionally, healthcare organizations with a large dependency on Medicare and Medicaid populations, such as community hospitals, have been affected by the challenging financial condition of the federal government and many state governments and government programs.
Accordingly, we recognize that prospective hospital clients often do not have the necessary capital to make investments in information technology.
Additionally, in response to these challenges, hospitals have become more selective regarding where they invest capital, resulting in a focus on strategic spending that generates a return on their investment.
Despite these challenges, we believe healthcare information technology is often viewed as more strategically beneficial to hospitals than other possible purchases because the technology also plays an important role in healthcare by improving safety and efficiency and reducing costs.
Additionally, we believe most hospitals recognize that they must invest in healthcare information technology to meet current and future regulatory, compliance and government reimbursement requirements.
In recent years, there have been significant changes to provider reimbursement by the U.S. federal government, followed by commercial payers and state governments.
There is increasing pressure on healthcare organizations to reduce costs and increase quality while replacing fee-for-service in part by enrolling in an advanced payment model.
This pressure could further encourage adoption of healthcare IT and increase demand for business management, consulting, and managed IT services, as the future success of these healthcare providers is greatly dependent upon their ability to engage patient populations and to coordinate patient care across a multitude of settings, while optimizing operating efficiency along the way.
We have historically made financing arrangements available to clients on a case-by-case basis, depending upon the various aspects of the proposed contract and customer attributes.
Our system sales revenues are now weighted more heavily in the form of financed sales, compared to upfront and subscription payment modules.
These financing arrangements include short-term payment plans and longer-term lease financing through us or third-party financing companies.
For those clients not seeking a financing arrangement, the payment schedule of the typical contract is structured to provide for a scheduling deposit due at contract signing, with the remainder of the contracted fees due at various stages of the installation process (delivery of hardware, installation of software and commencement of training, and satisfactory completion of a monthly accounting cycle or end-of-month operation by each respective application, as applicable).
During 2018, total financing receivables increased by $7.8 million, which had a significant impact on operating cash flow.
This increase in financing arrangements was primarily due to two reasons.
First, meaningful use stage three ("MU3") installations are primarily financed through short-term payment plans and demand for such installation has increased since late 2017.
Second, competitor financing options, primarily through accounts receivable management collections and cloud EHR arrangements, have applied pressure to reduce initial customer capital investment requirements for new EHR installations, leading to the offering of long-term lease options.
We have experienced and continue to expect positive cash flows from financing receivables during 2019 as cash receipts from MU3 installations in the previous year are received.
We have also historically made our software applications available to clients through "Software as a Service" or "SaaS" configurations, including our Cloud Electronic Health Record ("Cloud EHR") offering.
These offerings are attractive to some clients because this configuration allows them to obtain access to advanced software products without a significant initial capital outlay.
We have experienced an increase in the prevalence of such SaaS arrangements for new system installations and add-on sales to existing clients since 2015, a trend we expect to continue for the foreseeable future.
Unlike our perpetual license arrangements under which the related revenue is recognized effectively upon installation, the SaaS arrangements result in revenue being recognized monthly as the services are provided over the term of the arrangement.
As a result, the effect of this trend on the Company's financial statements is reduced system sales revenues during the period of installation in exchange for increased recurring periodic revenues (reflected in system sales and support revenues) over the term of the SaaS arrangement.
On May 3, 2019, the Company closed its acquisition of Get Real Health pursuant to a Stock Purchase Agreement dated April 23, 2019, as amended on May 2, 2019.
Based in Rockville, Maryland, Get Real Health delivers technology solutions to improve patient outcomes and engagement strategies with care providers.
Through this acquisition, the Company strengthened its position in community healthcare by offering three new comprehensive patient engagement and empowerment solutions that are offered by Get Real Health.
Although the acquisition may be accretive to our earnings for fiscal year 2019, there can be no assurance that this will be the case.
In addition, during the first nine months of 2019, we incurred approximately $0.5 million of pre-tax acquisition costs in connection with the acquisition of Get Real Health.
Results of Operations

During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we generated revenues of $204.0 million from the sale of our products and services, compared to $208.1 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, a decrease of 2% that is primarily attributed to fewer MU3 installations as the October 1, 2019 MU3 compliance deadline passed partially offset by 


continued TruBridge client growth.
We view sales of TruBridge solutions within our existing EHR client base as our leading performance indicator.
Our net income for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 decreased by $0.8 million to $9.2 million from the nine months ended September 30, 2018 as a result of a higher effective tax rate.
Net cash provided by operating activities increased by $10.7 million to $25.5 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, primarily due to more advantageous changes in working capital, most notably as it relates to accounts receivable and financing receivables.
Three Months Ended September 30, 2019 Compared with Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 

Revenues.
Total revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2019 decreased by $0.6 million, or 1%, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018.
Recurring system sales and support revenues decreased by $0.6 million, or 2%, compared to the third quarter of 2018.
Acute Care EHR recurring revenues decreased by $0.4 million, or 2%, as attrition primarily from the Centriq customer base outweighed new Thrive customer growth and additional support fees for MU3-related add-on sales.
Post-acute Care EHR recurring revenues decreased by $0.2 million, or 4%, due to attrition attributed to an aggressive competitive environment as we make technological improvements to the AHT product line.
Non-recurring system sales and support revenues decreased by $2.8 million, or 23%, primarily due to a $2.5 million decrease in Acute Care EHR non-recurring revenues.
We installed our Acute Care EHR solutions at five new hospital clients during the third quarter of 2019 (one of which was under a SaaS arrangement, resulting in revenue being recognized ratably over the contract term) compared to six new hospital clients during the third quarter of 2018 (none under a SaaS arrangement).
This decrease in non-SaaS installation activity resulted in non-recurring EHR revenues from new system implementations decreasing by $1.4 million from the third quarter of 2018.
Additionally, the impending 2019 year-end deadline for compliance with the related Promoting Interoperability (“PI”, formerly “Meaningful Use”) program administered by Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services ("CMS") resulted in a $1.9 million decrease in related MU3 installation revenues, which were partially offset by robust sales of other add-on applications, which increased $0.8 million compared to the third quarter of 2018.
Non-recurring Post-acute Care EHR revenues decreased by $0.3 million, or 29%, in the third quarter of 2019, despite increased bookings due to our ongoing product releases and aggressive efforts to make technological improvements to the AHT product line, as implementations from recent bookings have taken longer to complete due to multiple sites under contract.
TruBridge revenues increased 11%, or $2.8 million, compared to the third quarter of 2018.
Our hospital clients operate in an environment typified by rising costs and increased complexity and are increasingly seeking to alleviate themselves of the ever-increasing administrative burden of operating their own business office functions.
Most notably, an expanded customer base for our accounts receivable management services resulted in a revenue increase of $1.2 million, or 14%.
Additionally, revenues from our insurance services division increased $0.7 million, or 9%, due to continued increased demand for our TruBridge RCM solution.
Continued increasing demand for hosting services resulted in an increase of $0.4 million, or 12%, in our IT management services revenues.
Get Real Health contributed $0.5 million to TruBridge revenue during the third quarter of 2019.
Costs of Sales.
Total costs of sales decreased by 1%, or $0.4 million, compared to the third quarter of 2018.
As a percentage of total revenues, costs of sales remained flat at 48% in the third quarter of 2019 and 2018.
Costs of Acute Care EHR system sales and support decreased by $0.7 million, or 4%, compared to the third quarter of 2018 primarily due to a $0.8 million decrease in payroll cost as we have implemented measures to become more efficient with our resources.
Gross margin on Acute Care EHR system sales and support decreased to 52% in the third quarter of 2019 compared to 53% in the third quarter of 2018.
Costs of Post-acute Care EHR system sales and support decreased by $0.1 million, or 8%, compared to the third quarter of 2018, as we have been able to operate more efficiently to meet current demand by decreasing software costs compared to the 


third quarter of 2018.
The gross margin on Post-acute Care EHR system sales and support remained flat at 73% in the third quarter of 2019 and 2018.
Our costs associated with TruBridge sales and support increased 3%, or $0.4 million compared to the third quarter of 2018.
Legacy TruBridge costs remained flat when compared with the third quarter of 2018.
Get Real Health contributed $0.4 million in TruBridge costs of sales during the third quarter of 2019.
The gross margin on these services increased to 49% in the third quarter of 2019 compared to 45% in the third quarter of 2018.
Product Development.
Product development expenses consist primarily of compensation and other employee-related costs (including stock-based compensation) and infrastructure costs incurred, but not capitalized, for new product development and product enhancements.
Product development costs decreased $0.1 million, or 2%, compared to the third quarter of 2018, primarily as a decrease in payroll and stock compensation costs were partially offset by $0.4 million in product development costs related to Get Real Health during the third quarter of 2019.
Sales and Marketing.
Sales and marketing expenses decreased 12%, or $0.9 million, compared to the third quarter of 2018, primarily due to decreased payroll costs of 10%, or $0.3 million, based on decreased headcount.
Our commission expense decreased as a result of lower installation revenue, as noted above, by $0.5 million, or 32%, compared to the third quarter of 2018.
Get Real Health contributed $0.3 million in sales and marketing costs during the third quarter of 2019.
General and Administrative.
General and administrative expenses decreased 2%, or $0.2 million.
Most notably, we saw a $0.7 million decrease in non-recurring severance as a result of the one-time voluntary retirement program offered during the third quarter of 2018, which was partially offset by an $0.4 million increase in non-recurring transaction-related costs resulting from recent acquisition activity and other strategic initiatives.
Bad debt expense decreased $0.7 million compared to the third quarter of 2018 but was offset by a $0.6 million increase in employee health costs.
Get Real Health contributed $0.2 million in general and administrative costs during the third quarter of 2019.
Amortization of Acquisition-Related Intangibles.
Amortization expense associated with acquisition-related intangible assets increased $0.4 million compared to the third quarter of 2018 due to the addition of Get Real Health intangible assets acquired on May 3, 2019, and partially offset by the retirement of Rycan related trademarks during 2018.
All software and services previously provided under the Rycan name now are marketed under TruBridge trademarks.
Total Operating Expenses.
As a percentage of total revenues, total operating expenses remained flat at 44% of revenues in the third quarter of 2019 and 2018.
Total Other Income (Expense).
Total other income (expense) increased from expense of $1.6 million during the third quarter of 2018 to expense of $1.7 million during the third quarter of 2019, primarily as our interest income resulting from long-term payment plans offered to our clients was mostly offset by expenses related to our corroborative agreement with Caravan Health related to our Rural ACO initiative.
Income Before Taxes.
As a result of the foregoing factors, income before taxes increased by $0.6 million, compared to the third quarter of 2018.
Net Income.
Net income for the three months ended September 30, 2019 decreased by $1.6 million to $4.1 million, or $0.29 per basic and diluted share, compared with net income of $5.7 million, or $0.41 per basic and diluted share, for the three months ended September 30, 2018.
Net income represented 6% of revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to 8% of revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2018.
Nine Months Ended September 30, 2019 Compared with Nine Months Ended September 30, 2018 

Revenues.
Total revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 decreased by $4.1 million, or 2%, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
Recurring system sales and support revenues decreased by $3.0 million, or 3%, compared to the first nine months of 2018.
Acute Care EHR recurring revenues decreased by $2.2 million, or 3%, as attrition primarily from the Centriq customer base outweighed new Thrive customer growth and additional support fees for MU3-related add-on sales.
Post-acute Care EHR recurring revenues decreased by $0.8 million, or 6%, due to attrition attributed to an aggressive competitive environment as we make technological improvements to the AHT product line.
Non-recurring system sales and support revenues decreased by $6.1 million, or 17%, primarily due to a $6.7 million decrease in Acute Care EHR non-recurring revenues.
We installed our Acute Care EHR solutions at sixteen new hospital clients during the first nine months of 2019 (five of which were under a SaaS arrangement) compared to fifteen new hospital clients during the first nine months of 2018 (two under a SaaS arrangement).
A decrease in non-SaaS installation activity, along with a decrease in average contract value for the related installations, driven by smaller comparative facility sizes, resulted in non-recurring EHR revenues from new system implementations decreasing by $3.8 million from the first nine months of 2018.
Additionally, the impending 2019 year-end deadline for compliance with the related PI (formerly “Meaningful Use”) program administered by CMS resulted in a $6.6 million decrease in related MU3 installation revenues, which were partially offset by robust sales of other add-on applications that increased $3.7 million compared to the first nine months of 2018.
Non-recurring Post-acute Care EHR revenues increased by $0.6 million, or 22%, in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as a result of increased bookings due to our ongoing product releases and aggressive efforts to make technological improvements to the AHT product line.
TruBridge revenues increased 7%, or $5.0 million, compared to the first nine months of 2018.
Our hospital clients operate in an environment typified by rising costs and increased complexity and are increasingly seeking to alleviate themselves of the ever-increasing administrative burden of operating their own business office functions.
Most notably, an expanded customer base for our accounts receivable management services resulted in a revenue increase of $2.2 million, or 8%.
Additionally, revenues from our insurance services division increased $1.9 million, or 9%, due to continued customer growth for our TruBridge RCM solution.
Continued increasing demand for hosting services resulted in an increase of $0.9 million, or 11%, in our IT management services revenues.
These increases were partially offset by a decrease in our medical coding services revenues of $0.8 million, or 10%, as operational decisions by a few key customers have decreased their related patient volumes and, consequently, had a negative impact on our service revenues.
Get Real Health contributed $0.7 million to TruBridge revenue during the nine months ended September 30, 2019.
Costs of Sales.
Total costs of sales decreased by 2%, or $1.6 million, compared to the first nine months of 2018.
As a percentage of total revenues, costs of sales remained at 47% in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018.
Costs of Acute Care EHR system sales and support decreased by $2.0 million, or 4%, compared to the first nine months of 2018 primarily due to a 6%, or $2.0 million, decrease in payroll cost as we have implemented measures to become more efficient with our resources, coupled with a $0.7 million decrease in third party software costs and a $0.4 million decrease in travel costs.
These decreases were offset by a $0.9 million increase in hardware expense resulting from changes in the sales mix and a $0.2 million increase in other costs.
The decrease in Acute Care EHR costs of sales was not able to offset the decrease in revenue noted above, which resulted in the gross margin on Acute Care EHR system sales and support decreasing to 53% in the nine months ended September 30, 2019, compared to 55% in the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
Costs of Post-acute Care EHR system sales and support decreased by $0.7 million, or 16%, compared to the first nine months of 2018, primarily due to reduced software costs of $0.4 million, or 28%, and reduced payroll costs of $0.1 million, or 4%, as we have been able to operate more efficiently to meet current demand.
Additional decreases in hardware, travel, and other costs combined for an additional $0.2 million decrease.
The gross margin on Post-acute Care EHR system sales and support increased to 76% in the nine months ended September 30, 2019, compared to 72% in the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
Our costs associated with TruBridge sales and support increased 3%, or $1.2 million, due to general increases resulting from a larger customer base.
The gross margin on these services was 48% in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 compared to 46% in the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
Get Real Health contributed $0.5 million to TruBridge cost of sales during the nine months ended September 30, 2019.
Product Development.
Product development expenses consist primarily of compensation and other employee-related costs (including stock-based compensation) and infrastructure costs incurred, but not capitalized, for new product development and product enhancements.
Product development costs increased 1%, or $0.3 million, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
Get Real Health contributed $0.7 million to product development costs during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, which were partially offset by a combined $0.4 million decrease in payroll, stock compensation, and other costs.
Sales and Marketing.
Sales and marketing expenses decreased 7%, or $1.6 million, compared to the first nine months of 2018, primarily due to decreased payroll costs of 11%, or $1.0 million, based on decreased headcount.
In addition, commission costs decreased $0.5 million and other costs decreased $0.7 million compared to the first nine months of 2018.
Get Real Health contributed $0.5 million to sales and marketing costs during the nine months ended September 30, 2019.
General and Administrative.
General and administrative expenses decreased 5%, or $1.9 million, as the $3.9 million in cost savings achieved through recent changes in the health benefits offered to our employees through our self-insured health plans were partially offset by increases in other expense items.
Most notably, we saw a $1.8 million increase in non-recurring severance and transaction-related costs resulting from recent acquisition activity and other strategic initiatives.
Bad debt expense decreased $0.4 million compared to the first nine months in 2018.
Get Real Health contributed $0.4 million to general and administrative costs during the nine months ended September 30, 2019.
Amortization of Acquisition-Related Intangibles.
Amortization expense associated with acquisition-related intangible assets increased $0.2 million compared to the first nine months of 2018 due to the addition of Get Real Health intangible assets acquired on May 3, 2019, partially offset by the retirement of Rycan related trademarks during 2018.
All software and services previously provided under the Rycan name now are marketed under TruBridge trademarks.
Total Operating Expenses.
As a percentage of total revenues, total operating expenses decreased to 45% of revenues in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 compared to 46% in the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
Total Other Income (Expense).
Total other income (expense) decreased from expense of $5.0 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 to expense of $4.7 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, as our interest rate on long term debt has been reduced.
Income Before Taxes.
As a result of the foregoing factors, income before taxes increased by 7%, or $0.7 million, compared to the first nine months of 2018.
Net Income.
Net income for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 decreased by $0.8 million to $9.2 million, or $0.65 per basic and diluted share, compared with net income of $10.0 million, or $0.72 per basic and diluted share, for the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
Net income represented 5% of revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018.
Liquidity and Capital Resources

Sources of Liquidity

As of September 30, 2019, our principal sources of liquidity consisted of cash and cash equivalents of $4.0 million and our remaining borrowing capacity under the Amended Revolving Credit Facility of $19.0 million, compared to $5.7 million of cash and cash equivalents and $20.3 million of remaining borrowing capacity under the Amended Revolving Credit Facility as of December 31, 2018.
In conjunction with our acquisition of HHI in January 2016, we entered into the Previous Credit Agreement which provided for the $125 million Previous Term Loan Facility and the $50 million Previous Revolving Credit Facility.
On October 13, 2017, the Company entered into the Second Amendment to refinance and decrease the aggregate principal amount of the credit facilities from $175 million to $162 million, which included the $117 million Amended Term Loan Facility and the $45 million Amended Revolving Credit Facility.
On February 8, 2018, the Company entered into the Third Amendment to increase the aggregate principal amount of the Amended Credit Facilities from $162 million to $167 million, which includes the $117 million Amended Term Loan Facility and a $50 million Amended Revolving Credit Facility.
As of September 30, 2019, we had $122.0 million in principal amount of indebtedness outstanding under the Amended Credit Facilities.
We believe that our cash and cash equivalents of $4.0 million as of September 30, 2019, the future operating cash flows of the combined entity, and our remaining borrowing capacity under the Amended Revolving Credit Facility of $19.0 million as of September 30, 2019, taken together, provide adequate resources to fund ongoing cash requirements for the next twelve months.
We cannot provide assurance that our actual cash requirements will not be greater than we expect as of the date of filing of this Form 10-Q.
If sources of liquidity are not available or if we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations during the next twelve months, we may be required to obtain additional sources of funds through additional operational improvements, capital market transactions, asset sales or financing from third parties, a combination thereof or otherwise.
We cannot provide assurance that these additional sources of funds will be available or, if available, would have reasonable terms.
To finance the closing of the Get Real Health transaction, which occurred on May 3, 2019, the Company used a draw of approximately $11.0 million under its Amended Revolving Credit Facility.
If the Company is required to make earnout payments (up to $14.0 million) after the end of 2019, the Company expects to use additional draws on its Amended Revolving Credit Facility to fund any such earnout payments.
The Company has measured the fair value of the potential earnout payment at $5.0 million as of September 30, 2019.
Operating Cash Flow Activities

Net cash provided by operating activities increased $10.7 million, from $14.9 million provided by operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 to $25.5 million provided by operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2019.
The increase in cash flows provided from operations is primarily due to more cash-advantageous changes in working capital.
Working capital was a net use of cash during the first nine months of 2018 in the amount of $14.2 million, compared to a net use of cash during the first nine months of 2019 of only $2.9 million.
During the first nine months of 2018, rapid revenue growth for TruBridge resulted in expansion of accounts receivable of approximately $4.2 million and financing receivables of approximately $6.0 million, as we were still in the early stages of the MU3 opportunity (the sales of which have been nearly all under short-term payment plans).
Conversely, modest TruBridge revenue growth during the first nine months of 2019 coupled with collections on past financing receivables have greatly abated the related cash collection timing delays.
As a result, these components of working capital, which combined for $10.1 million of cash collection deferrals during the first nine months of 2018, combined to be $3.3 million cash positive during the first nine months of 2019.
Investing Cash Flow Activities

Net cash used in investing activities increased $11.6 million, with $12.4 million used in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 compared to $0.8 million used during the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
We completed our $10.9 million acquisition of Get Real Health during the second quarter of 2019.
We do not anticipate the need for significant capital expenditures during the remainder of 2019. 


Financing Cash Flow Activities

During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, our financing activities used net cash of $14.9 million, as we paid a net $10.4 million in long-term debt principal and declared and paid dividends in the amount of $4.3 million.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we made a $7.0 million prepayment on the Amended Term Loan Facility in accordance with the excess cash flow mandatory prepayment requirements of the Amended Credit Agreement.
Financing cash flow activities used $9.4 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, primarily due to $5.2 million net paid in long-term debt principal and $4.2 million cash paid in dividends.
We believe that paying dividends is an effective way of providing an investment return to our stockholders and a beneficial use of our cash.
However, the declaration of dividends by CPSI is subject to compliance with the terms of our Amended Credit Agreement and the discretion of our Board of Directors, which may decide to change or terminate the Company's dividend policy at any time.
Our Board of Directors will continue to take into account such matters as general business conditions, capital needs, our financial results and other such factors the Board of Directors may deem relevant.
Credit Agreement

As of September 30, 2019, we had $91.0 million in principal amount outstanding under the Amended Term Loan Facility and $31.0 million in principal amount outstanding under the Amended Revolving Credit Facility.
Each of the Amended Credit Facilities continues to bear interest at a rate per annum equal to an applicable margin plus, at our option, either (1) the Adjusted LIBOR rate for the relevant interest period, (2) an alternate base rate determined by reference to the greater of (a) the prime lending rate of Regions, (b) the federal funds rate for the relevant interest period plus one half of one percent per annum and (c) the one month LIBOR rate plus one percent per annum, or (3) a combination of (1) and (2).
The applicable margin range for LIBOR loans and the letter of credit fee ranges from 2.0% to 3.5%.
The applicable margin range for base rate loans ranges from 1.0% to 2.5%, in each case based on the Company's consolidated leverage ratio.
Principal payments with respect to the Amended Term Loan Facility are due on the last day of each fiscal quarter beginning December 31, 2017, with quarterly principal payments of approximately $1.46 million through September 30, 2019, approximately $2.19 million through September 30, 2021 and approximately $2.93 million through September 30, 2022, with maturity on October 13, 2022 or such earlier date as the obligations under the Amended Credit Agreement become due and payable pursuant to the terms of the Amended Credit Agreement (the "Amended Maturity Date").
Any principal outstanding under the Amended Revolving Credit Facility is due and payable on the Amended Maturity Date.
The Amended Credit Facilities are secured pursuant to a Pledge and Security Agreement, dated January 8, 2016, among the parties identified as obligors therein and Regions, as collateral agent, on a first priority basis by a security interest in substantially all of the tangible and intangible assets (subject to certain exceptions) of the Company and certain subsidiaries of the Company, as guarantors (collectively, the “Subsidiary Guarantors”), including certain registered intellectual property and the capital stock of certain of the Company’s direct and indirect subsidiaries.
Our obligations under the Amended Credit Agreement are also guaranteed by the Subsidiary Guarantors.
The Amended Credit Agreement requires the Company to mandatorily prepay the Amended Credit Facilities with (i) 75% of excess cash flow (minus certain specified other payments) during each of the fiscal years ending December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2018 and (ii) 50% of excess cash flow (minus certain specified other payments) during the fiscal year ending December 31, 2019 and thereafter.
The Company is permitted to voluntarily prepay the Amended Credit Facilities at any time 


without penalty, subject to customary “breakage” costs with respect to prepayments of LIBOR rate loans made on a day other than the last day of any applicable interest period.
The excess cash flow mandatory prepayment requirement under the Amended Credit Agreement resulted in a $7.0 million prepayment on the Amended Term Loan Facility during the first quarter of 2019 related to excess cash flow generated by the Company during 2018.
Backlog

Backlog consists of revenues we reasonably expect to recognize over the next twelve months under all existing contracts, including those with remaining performance obligations that have original expected durations of one year or less and those with fees that are variable in which we estimate future revenues.
The revenues to be recognized may relate to a combination of one-time fees for system sales and recurring fees for support and maintenance and TruBridge services.
As of September 30, 2019, we had a twelve-month backlog of approximately $14 million in connection with non-recurring system purchases and approximately $231 million in connection with recurring payments under support and maintenance, Cloud EHR contracts, and TruBridge services.
As of September 30, 2018, we had a twelve-month backlog of approximately $35 million in connection with non-recurring system purchases and approximately $225 million in connection with recurring payments under support and maintenance and TruBridge services.
Bookings



Acute Care EHR bookings in the third quarter of 2019 increased by $1.6 million, or 15%, over the third quarter of 2018, mostly propelled by increased demand for non-MU3-related add on sales to existing customers.
Acute Care EHR bookings during the first nine months of 2019 decreased $13.8 million, or 31%, compared to the first nine months of 2018 as net new installation bookings have been severely impacted by a lack of urgency on the part of prospective customers, resulting in a low volume of decisions related to new system implementations.
This lack of urgency has largely been the natural result of the Meaningful Use era reaching the end of its life cycle, resulting in lessened prospective regulatory IT challenges and general fatigue in our markets towards additional investment in EHR technology.
Despite these developments, we do not consider the quality of our pipeline to have diminished materially.
Post-acute Care EHR bookings in the third quarter of 2019 increased by $0.2 million, or 26%, from the third quarter of 2018, and increased by $1.6 million, or 61%, year-to-date 2019 compared to year-to-date 2018, as beneficial regulatory factors have worked in tandem with our recent efforts to improve the related product functionality and usability to drive improved demand in both the net new and add-on sales environments.
TruBridge bookings in the third quarter of 2019 increased by $2.9 million, or 40%, over the third quarter of 2018, mostly due to our recently-introduced initiative to expand our TruBridge footprint outside of our traditional EHR customer base, resulting in significant client wins.
From a year-to-date perspective, TruBridge bookings have increased by $0.1 million, or less than 1%.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We had no off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined by Item 303(a)(4) of SEC Regulation S-K, as of September 30, 2019.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

Our Management Discussion and Analysis is based upon our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.
The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make subjective or complex judgments that may affect the reported financial condition and results of operations.
We base our estimates on historical experience and other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the reported values of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and other financial amounts that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates and these estimates may differ under different assumptions or conditions.
We continually evaluate the information used to make these estimates as our business and the economic environment changes.
In our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, we identified our critical accounting polices related to revenue recognition, allowance for doubtful accounts, allowance for credit losses, and estimates.
There have been no significant changes to these critical accounting policies during the nine months ended September 30, 2019.
Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
Not Applicable.
