Item 1.Financial Statements.



COMPUTER PROGRAMS AND SYSTEMS, INC.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 









The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.





COMPUTER PROGRAMS AND SYSTEMS, INC.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 









The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.





COMPUTER PROGRAMS AND SYSTEMS, INC.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY 









The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.





COMPUTER PROGRAMS AND SYSTEMS, INC.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 











COMPUTER PROGRAMS AND SYSTEMS, INC.



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 





1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION 



Basis of Presentation



The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") and include all adjustments that, in the opinion of management, are necessary for a fair presentation of the results of the periods presented. All such adjustments are considered of a normal recurring nature. Quarterly results of operations are not necessarily indicative of annual results.



Certain footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP") have been condensed or omitted. The condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2018 was derived from the audited consolidated balance sheet at that date. These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements of Computer Programs and Systems, Inc. ("CPSI" or the "Company") for the year ended December 31, 2018 and the notes thereto contained in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.



Principles of Consolidation





2. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS



New Accounting Standards Adopted in 2019



In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2016-02, Leases, to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by recognizing lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements. The new guidance requires the recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities by lessees for those leases classified as operating leases under previous U.S. GAAP. We adopted this guidance as of January 1, 2019 using the current period adjustment method. The impact on the financial statements of implementation of this standard was an increase in lease assets and lease liabilities of $4.9 million as of the adoption date, January 1, 2019. Adoption of the standard did not significantly impact our consolidated net earnings or cash flows.



New Accounting Standards Yet to be Adopted



In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments-Credit Losses, which will require the measurement of all expected credit losses for financial assets held at the reporting date based on historical experience, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts. This guidance will be effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those years beginning after December 15, 2019, which is effective for the Company as of the first quarter of our fiscal year ending December 31, 2020. The Company is currently evaluating the impact that the implementation of this standard will have on its consolidated financial statements.



We do not believe that any other recently issued but not yet effective accounting standards, if adopted, would have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.





Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products or services to clients in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products and services. We enter into contracts that can include various combinations of products and services, which are generally distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations. The Company employs the 5-step revenue recognition model under Accounting Standards Codification 







Revenue is recognized net of shipping charges and any taxes collected from clients, which are subsequently remitted to governmental authorities. 



System Sales and Support



The Company enters into contractual obligations to sell perpetual software licenses, installation, conversion, training, hardware and software application support and hardware maintenance services to acute care and post-acute care community hospitals. 



Non-recurring Revenues





•Hardware revenue is recognized separately from software licenses at the point in time it is delivered to the client. The SSP of hardware is cost plus a reasonable margin. Payment is generally due upon delivery of the hardware to the client. Standard manufacturer warranties apply to hardware.



Recurring Revenues



•Software application support and hardware maintenance services sold with software licenses and hardware are separate and distinct performance obligations. Revenue for support and maintenance services is recognized based on SSP, which is the renewal price, ratably over the life of the contract, which is generally three to five years. Payment is due monthly for support services provided.



•Subscriptions to third party content revenue is recognized as a separate performance obligation ratably over the subscription term based on SSP, which is cost plus a reasonable margin. Payment is due monthly for subscriptions to third party content.



•Software as a Service ("SaaS") arrangements for EHR software and related conversion and training services are considered a single performance obligation. Revenue is recognized on a monthly basis as the SaaS service is provided to the client over the contract term. Payment is due monthly for SaaS services provided.



Refer to Note 16 - Segment Reporting, for further information, including revenue by client base (acute care or post-acute care) bifurcated by recurring and non-recurring revenue.



TruBridge





TruBridge also provides professional IT services. Revenue from professional IT services is recognized as the services are performed based on SSP. Payment is due monthly as services are performed.





Deferred Revenue



Deferred revenue represents amounts invoiced to clients for which the services under contract have not been completed and revenue has not been recognized, including annual renewals of certain software subscriptions and customer deposits for implementations to be performed at a later date. Revenue is recognized ratably over the life of the software subscriptions as services are provided and at the point-in-time when implementations have been completed.







The deferred revenue recorded during the six months ended June 30, 2019 is comprised primarily of the annual renewals of certain software subscriptions billed during the first quarter of each year and deposits collected for future EHR installations. The deferred revenue recognized as revenue during the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 is comprised primarily of the periodic recognition of annual renewals that were deferred until earned and deposits for future EHR installations that were deferred until earned.



Costs to Obtain and Fulfill a Contract with a Customer



Costs to obtain a contract include the commission costs related to SaaS licensing agreements, which are capitalized and amortized ratably over the expected life of the customer. As a practical expedient, we generally recognize the incremental costs of obtaining a contract as an expense when incurred if the amortization period of the asset would have been one year or less, with the exception of commissions generated from TruBridge sales. TruBridge commissions, which are paid up to twelve months in advance of services performed, are capitalized and amortized over the prepayment period. Costs to obtain a contract are expensed within sales and marketing expenses in the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of income.



Contract fulfillment costs related to the implementation of SaaS arrangements are capitalized and amortized ratably over the expected life of the customer. Costs to fulfill contracts consist of the payroll costs for the implementation of SaaS arrangements, including time for training, conversion, and installation that is necessary for the software to be utilized. Contract fulfillment costs are expensed within the caption "System sales and support - Cost of sales."



Costs to obtain and fulfill contracts related to SaaS arrangements are included within the "Prepaid expenses and other" and "Other assets, net of current portion" line items on our condensed consolidated balance sheets. 







 Remaining Performance Obligations



Disclosures regarding remaining performance obligations are not considered material as the overwhelming majority of the Company's remaining performance obligations either (a) are related to contracts with an expected duration of one year or less, or (b) exhibit revenue recognition in the amount to which the Company has the right to invoice.







Acquisition of Get Real Health



On May 3, 2019, we acquired all of the assets and liabilities of iNetXperts, Corp., a Maryland corporation doing business as Get Real Health (“Get Real Health”), pursuant to a Stock Purchase Agreement dated April 23, 2019, as amended on May 2, 2019. Based in Rockville, Maryland, Get Real Health delivers technology solutions to improve patient outcomes and engagement strategies with care providers. 



Consideration for the acquisition included cash (net of cash of the acquired entity) of $10.8 million (inclusive of seller's transaction expenses), plus a contingent earnout payment of up to $14.0 million tied to Get Real Health's earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, and amortization ("EBITDA") (subject to certain pro-forma adjustments) for 2019. During 2019, we have incurred approximately $0.4 million of pre-tax acquisition costs in connection with the acquisition of Get Real Health. Acquisition costs are included in general and administrative expenses in our consolidated statements of income.



Our acquisition of Get Real Health will be treated as a purchase in accordance with ASC 805, Business Combinations, which requires allocation of the purchase price to the estimated fair values of assets and liabilities acquired in the transaction. Our allocation of the purchase price is based on management's judgment after evaluating several factors, including a preliminary valuation assessment. The allocation is preliminary and subject to changes, which could be significant, as additional information becomes available and appraisals of intangible assets and deferred tax positions are finalized.







The intangible assets in the table above are being amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. The amortization is included in amortization of acquisition-related intangibles in our condensed consolidated statements of income. 



The fair value measurements of tangible and intangible assets and liabilities were based on significant inputs not observable in the market and thus represent Level 3 measurements within the fair value measurement hierarchy (see Note 15 - Fair Value). Level 3 inputs included, among others, discount rates that we estimated would be used by a market participant in valuing these assets and liabilities, projections of revenues and cash flows, client attrition rates and market comparables.



Our condensed consolidated statement of operations for the three months ended June 30, 2019 includes revenues of approximately $0.2 million and pre-tax loss of approximately $0.7 million attributed to the acquired business since the May 3, 2019 acquisition date.









Pro forma net income (loss) was calculated by adjusting the results for the applicable period to reflect (i) the additional amortization that would have been charged assuming the fair value adjustments to intangible assets had been applied on January 1, 2018 and (ii) adjustments to amortized revenue during fiscal 2019 and 2018 as a result of the acquisition date valuation of assumed deferred revenue. 



5. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT







6. OTHER ACCRUED LIABILITIES









7. NET INCOME PER SHARE



The Company presents basic and diluted earnings per share ("EPS") data for its common stock. Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the net income attributable to stockholders of the Company by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the net income attributable to stockholders of the Company and the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period for the effects of all dilutive potential common shares, including awards under stock-based compensation arrangements.



The Company's unvested restricted stock awards (see Note 9) are considered participating securities under FASB Codification topic, Earnings Per Share, because they entitle holders to non-forfeitable rights to dividends until the awards vest or are forfeited. When a company has a security that qualifies as a "participating security," the Codification requires the use of the two-class method when computing basic EPS. The two-class method is an earnings allocation formula that determines EPS for each class of common stock and participating security according to dividends declared (or accumulated) and participation rights in undistributed earnings. In determining the amount of net income to allocate to common stockholders, income is allocated to both common stock and participating securities based on their respective weighted average shares outstanding for the period, with net income attributable to common stockholders ultimately equaling net income less net income attributable to participating securities. Diluted EPS for the Company's common stock is computed using the more dilutive of the two-class method or the treasury stock method.







During 2018 and 2019, performance share awards were granted to certain executive officers and key employees of the Company that will result in the issuance of time-vesting restricted stock if the predefined performance criteria are met. The awards provide for an aggregate target of 200,709 shares, none of which have been included in the calculation of diluted EPS for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 because the related threshold award performance level has not been achieved as of June 30, 2019. See Note 9 - Stock-based Compensation for more information.







The Company determines the tax provision for interim periods using an estimate of our annual effective tax rate, adjusted for discrete items, if any, that are taken into account in the relevant period. Each quarter we update our estimate of the annual effective tax rate, and if our estimated tax rate changes, we make a cumulative adjustment.









Stock-based compensation expense is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award, and is recognized as an expense over the employee's or non-employee director's requisite service period.







The Company's stock-based compensation awards are in the form of restricted stock and performance share awards granted pursuant to the Company's 2012 Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors, Amended and Restated 2014 Incentive Plan and 2019 Incentive Plan (the "Plans"). As of June 30, 2019, there was $14.9 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested stock-based compensation arrangements granted under the Plans, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.9 years. 



Restricted Stock



The Company grants restricted stock to executive officers, certain key employees and non-employee directors under the Plans with the fair value of the awards representing the fair value of the common stock on the date the restricted stock is granted. Shares of restricted stock generally vest in equal annual installments over the applicable vesting period, which ranges from one to three years. The Company records expenses for these grants on a straight-line basis over the applicable vesting periods. Shares of restricted stock may also be issued pursuant to the settlement of performance share awards, for which the Company records expenses in the manner described in the "Performance Share Awards" section below. 









Performance Share Awards



The Company grants performance share awards to executive officers and certain key employees under the Amended and Restated 2014 Incentive Plan and the 2019 Incentive Plan. The number of shares of common stock earned and issuable under each award is determined at the end of a one-year or three-year performance period, as applicable, based on the Company's achievement of performance goals predetermined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors at the time of grant. The three-year performance share awards include a modifier to the total number of shares earned based on the Company's total shareholder return ("TSR") compared to an industry index. If certain levels of the performance objective are met, the award results in the issuance of shares of restricted stock or common stock corresponding to such level. One-year performance share awards are then subject to time-based vesting pursuant to which the shares of restricted stock vest in equal annual installments over the applicable vesting period, which is generally three years. Three-year performance share awards that result in the issuance of shares of common stock are not subject to time-based vesting at the conclusion of the three-year performance period.



In the event that the Company's financial performance meets the predetermined targets for the performance objectives of the one-year and three-year performance share awards, the Company will issue each award recipient the number of shares of restricted stock or common stock, as applicable, equal to the target award specified in the individual's underlying performance share award agreement. In the event the financial results of the Company exceed the predetermined targets, additional shares up to the maximum award may be issued. In the event the financial results of the Company fall below the predetermined targets, a reduced number of shares may be issued. If the financial results of the Company fall below the threshold performance levels, no shares will be issued. The total number of shares issued for the three-year performance share award may be increased, decreased, or unchanged based on the TSR modifier described above.



The recipients of performance share awards do not receive dividends or possess voting rights during the performance period and, accordingly, the fair value of the one-year performance share awards is the quoted market value of CPSI's common stock on the grant date less the present value of the expected dividends not received during the relevant period. The TSR modifier applicable to the three-year performance share awards is considered a market condition and therefore is reflected in the grant date fair value of the award. A Monte Carlo simulation has been used to account for this market condition in the grant date fair value of the award.



Expense of one-year performance share awards is recognized using the accelerated attribution (graded vesting) method over the period beginning on the date the Company determines that it is probable that the performance criteria will be achieved and ending on the last day of the vesting period for the restricted stock issued in satisfaction of such awards. Expense of three-year performance share awards is recognized using ratable straight-line amortization over the three-year performance period. In the event the Company determines it is no longer probable that the minimum performance level will be achieved, all previously recognized compensation expense related to the applicable awards is reversed in the period such a determination is made.











Short-Term Payment Plans







Long-Term Financing Arrangements



Additionally, the Company provides financing for purchases of its information and patient care systems to certain healthcare providers under long-term financing arrangements expiring in various years through 2026. Under long-term financing arrangements, the transaction price is adjusted by a discount rate that reflects market conditions that would be used for a separate financing transaction between the Company and licensee at contract inception, and takes into account the credit characteristics of the licensee and market interest rates as of the date of the agreement. As such, the amount of fixed fee revenue recognized at the beginning of the license term will be reduced by the calculated financing component. As payments are received from the licensee, the Company recognizes a portion of the financing component as interest income, reported as other income in the condensed consolidated statements of income. These receivables typically have terms from two to seven years.













Credit Quality of Financing Receivables and Allowance for Credit Losses







The Company’s financing receivables are comprised of a single portfolio segment, as the balances are all derived from short-term payment plan arrangements and long-term financing arrangements within our target market of community hospitals. The Company evaluates the credit quality of its financing receivables based on a combination of factors, including, but not limited to, customer collection experience, economic conditions, the customer’s financial condition, and known risk characteristics impacting the respective customer base of community hospitals, the most notable of which relate to enacted and potential changes in Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates as community hospitals typically generate a significant portion of their revenues and related cash flows from beneficiaries of these programs. In addition to specific account identification, the Company utilizes historical collection experience to establish the allowance for credit losses. Financing receivables are written off only after the Company has exhausted all collection efforts. 







From time to time, the Company may agree to alternative payment terms outside of the terms of the original financing receivable agreement due to customer difficulties in achieving the original terms. In general, such alternative payment arrangements do not result in a re-aging of the related receivables. Rather, payments pursuant to any alternative payment arrangements are applied to the already outstanding invoices beginning with the oldest outstanding invoices as the payments are received.



Because amounts are reclassified to trade accounts receivable when they become due, there are no past due amounts included within financing receivables current portion or financing receivables, net of current portion, in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets.









11. INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND GOODWILL

















Goodwill is evaluated for impairment annually on October 1, or more frequently if indicators of impairment are present or changes in circumstances suggest that impairment may exist. 









As of June 30, 2019, the carrying value of debt approximates the fair value due to the variable interest rate, which reflects the market rate.



Credit Agreement



In conjunction with our acquisition of HHI in January 2016, we entered into a syndicated credit agreement (the "Previous Credit Agreement") with Regions Bank ("Regions") serving as administrative agent, which provided for a $125 million term loan facility (the "Previous Term Loan Facility") and a $50 million revolving credit facility (the "Previous Revolving Credit Facility"). On October 13, 2017, we entered into a Second Amendment (the "Second Amendment") to refinance and decrease the aggregate principal amount of the credit facilities from $175 million to $162 million, which included a $117 million term loan facility (the "Amended Term Loan Facility") and a $45 million revolving credit facility (the "Amended Revolving Credit Facility" and, together with the Amended Term Loan Facility, the "Amended Credit Facilities"). On February 8, 2018, we entered into a Third Amendment (the "Third Amendment") to the credit agreement (as amended, the "Amended Credit Agreement") to increase the aggregate principal amount of the Amended Credit Facilities from $162 million to $167 million, which includes the $117 million Amended Term Loan Facility and a $50 million Amended Revolving Credit Facility.



Each of the Amended Credit Facilities continues to bear interest at a rate per annum equal to an applicable margin plus, at our option, either (1) the Adjusted LIBOR rate for the relevant interest period, (2) an alternate base rate determined by reference to the greater of (a) the prime lending rate of Regions, (b) the federal funds rate for the relevant interest period plus one half of one percent per annum and (c) the one month LIBOR rate plus one percent per annum, or (3) a combination of (1) and (2). The applicable margin range for LIBOR loans and the letter of credit fee ranges from 2.0% to 3.5%. The applicable margin range for base rate loans ranges from 1.0% to 2.5%, in each case based on the Company's consolidated leverage ratio. 



Principal payments with respect to the Amended Term Loan Facility are due on the last day of each fiscal quarter beginning December 31, 2017, with quarterly principal payments of approximately $1.46 million through September 30, 2019, approximately $2.19 million through September 30, 2021 and approximately $2.93 million through September 30, 2022, with maturity on October 13, 2022 or such earlier date as the obligations under the Amended Credit Agreement 





become due and payable pursuant to the terms of the Amended Credit Agreement (the "Amended Maturity Date"). Any principal outstanding under the Amended Revolving Credit Facility is due and payable on the Amended Maturity Date.







The Amended Credit Facilities are secured pursuant to a Pledge and Security Agreement, dated January 8, 2016, among the parties identified as obligors therein and Regions, as collateral agent, on a first priority basis by a security interest in substantially all of the tangible and intangible assets (subject to certain exceptions) of the Company and certain subsidiaries of the Company, as guarantors (collectively, the “Subsidiary Guarantors”), including certain registered intellectual property and the capital stock of certain of the Company’s direct and indirect subsidiaries. Our obligations under the Amended Credit Agreement are also guaranteed by the Subsidiary Guarantors.





The Amended Credit Agreement requires the Company to mandatorily prepay the Amended Credit Facilities with (i) 75% of excess cash flow (minus certain specified other payments) during each of the fiscal years ending December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2018 and (ii) 50% of excess cash flow (minus certain specified other payments) during the fiscal year ending December 31, 2019 and thereafter. The Company is permitted to voluntarily prepay the Amended Credit Facilities at any time without penalty, subject to customary “breakage” costs with respect to prepayments of LIBOR rate loans made on a day other than the last day of any applicable interest period. The excess cash flow mandatory prepayment requirement under the Amended Credit Agreement resulted in a $7.0 million prepayment on the Amended Term Loan Facility during the first quarter of 2019 related to excess cash flow generated by the Company during 2018. 





The Company leases office space in various locations in Alabama, Louisiana, Pennsylvania, Minnesota, Colorado, Maryland, and Mississippi. These leases have terms expiring from 2019 through 2030 but do contain optional extension terms. Leases with an initial term of 12 months or less are not recorded on the balance sheet; we recognize lease expense for these leases on a straight-line basis over the lease term.









Because our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at the lease commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments. We used the incremental borrowing rate on January 1, 2019, for operating leases that commenced prior to that date.







Total rent expense for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 was $1.3 million and $1.4 million, respectively.



Total cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of lease liabilities within operating cash flows from operating leases for the six months ended June 30, 2019 was $0.9 million.



As of June 30, 2019, we had one additional office space lease that has not yet commenced with future commitments of $1.5 million. This office space in Ridgeland, MS will replace existing office space in Jackson, MS and will commence during the third quarter of 2019.



14. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES



From time to time, the Company is involved in routine litigation that arises in the ordinary course of business. Management does not believe it is reasonably possible that such matters will have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial statements.















As of June 30, 2019, we measured the fair value of contingent consideration that represents the potential earnout incentive for Get Real Health's former equity holders. We estimated the fair value of the contingent consideration based on the probability of Get Real Health meeting EBITDA (subject to certain pro-forma adjustments) targets. We did not have any other instruments that require fair value measurement as of June 30, 2019.







The accrued contingent consideration depicted below represents the potential earnout incentive for former Rycan shareholders, relating to the purchase of Rycan by HHI in 2015. We estimated the fair value of the contingent consideration based on the amount of revenue we expected to be earned by Rycan through the year ending December 31, 2018 in accordance with the purchase agreement between the parties. 







The carrying amounts of other financial instruments reported in the consolidated balance sheets for current assets and current liabilities approximate their fair values because of the short-term nature of these instruments.







Our chief operating decision makers ("CODM") utilize three operating segments, "Acute Care EHR," "Post-acute Care EHR" and "TruBridge," based on our three distinct business units with unique market dynamics and opportunities. Revenues and cost of sales are primarily derived from the provision of services and sales of our proprietary software, and our CODM assess the performance of these three segments at the gross profit level. Operating expenses and items such as interest, income tax, capital expenditures and total assets are managed at a consolidated level and thus are not included in our operating segment disclosures. Our CODM group is comprised of the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Growth Officer, Chief Operating Officer, and Chief Financial Officer. Accounting policies for each of the reportable segments are the same as those used on a consolidated basis. 









On August 6, 2019, the Company announced a dividend for the third quarter of 2019 in the amount of $0.10 per share, payable on August 30, 2019, to stockholders of record as of the close of business on August 16, 2019. 





Item 1.Legal Proceedings.



From time to time, we are involved in routine litigation that arises in the ordinary course of business. We are not currently involved in any claims outside the ordinary course of business that are material to our financial condition or results of operations. 



Item 1A.Risk Factors.



In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the factors discussed in Part I, "Item 1A. Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. The risks described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results.



