item1.txt
Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).
There have been no significant changes to such accounting policies during the 26 weeks ended September 1, 2019, except for adoption of ASC 842.
This transaction was completed on December 4, 2018.
On July 16, 2019, the Company also filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Kansas, a Certificate of Ownership and Merger whereby the Company’s Park Aerospace Technologies Corp. wholly owned subsidiary located at the Newton, Kansas Airport was merged into the Company and ceased to exist.
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (i.e., the “exit price”) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
Level 2 inputs are inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
The income approach is based on a discounted cash flow analysis and calculates the fair value by estimating the after-tax cash flows attributable to a reporting unit and then discounting the after-tax cash flows to a present value using a risk-adjusted discount rate.
Assumptions used in the discounted cash flow analysis require the exercise of significant judgment, including judgment about appropriate discount rates, terminal values, growth rates and the amount and timing of expected future cash flows.
There were no transfers between levels within the fair value hierarchy during the 26 weeks ended September 1, 2019 and August 26, 2018.


item2.txt
Park Aerospace Corp., formerly Park Electrochemical Corp., (“Park” or the “Company”) develops and manufactures solution and hot-melt advanced composite materials used to produce composite structures for the global aerospace markets.
Park offers an array of composite materials specifically designed for hand lay-up or automated fiber placement (AFP) manufacturing applications.
Park’s advanced composite materials are used to produce primary and secondary structures for jet engines, large and regional transport aircraft, military aircraft, Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs commonly referred to as “drones”), business jets, general aviation aircraft and rotary wing aircraft.
As a complement to Park’s advanced composite materials offering, Park designs and fabricates composite parts, structures and assemblies and low volume tooling for the aerospace industry.
On July 16, 2019, the Company filed with the State of New York Department of State a Certificate of Amendment of its Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, changing its name to “Park Aerospace Corp.” after the Board of Directors of the Company approved such amendment and the shareholders of the Company approved such amendment at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders.
The Company's total net sales from continuing operations in the 13 weeks and 26 weeks ended September 1, 2019 were $13.7 million and $28.7 million, respectively, compared to $11.2 million and $21.6 million, respectively, in the 13 weeks and 26 weeks ended August 26, 2018.
The long-term contract with the customer is requirements based and does not guarantee quantities.
An order forecast was provided by the customer and pricing was agreed upon for the term of the contract.
This order forecast is updated periodically during the term of the underlying contract.


item3.txt



item4.txt
None.
Item 5.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.
None.


