Espey services include design and development to specification, build to print, design services, design studies, environmental testing services, metal fabrication, painting services, and development of automatic testing equipment.
Portions of the manufacturing and testing process are subcontracted to vendors from time to time.
There is competition in all classes of products manufactured by the Company, ranging from divisions of the largest electronic companies, to many small companies.
The Company's sales do not represent a significant share of the industry's market for any class of its products.
Our business is not seasonal.
However, the concentration of our business in the rail industry, and in equipment for military applications and industrial applications, and our customer concentrations expose us to on-going associated risks.
These risks include, without limitation, requirements for power supplies in the rail industry, dependence on appropriations from the United States Government and the governments of foreign nations, program allocations, the potential of governmental termination of orders for convenience, and the general strength of the industry sectors in which our customers transact business.
Future procurement needs supporting the military and the rail industry continues to drive competition.
As part of our strategy, we adjust our pricing in order to achieve a balance which enables us both to retain repeat programs while being more competitive in bidding on new programs.
This trend will continue through fiscal year 2019.
In order to maintain a balanced business, we are continuing to place an emphasis on securing “build to print” opportunities, which will allow production work to go directly to the manufacturing floor, limiting the impact on our engineering staff.
Successful conversion of engineering program backlog into sales is largely dependent on the execution and completion of our engineering design efforts.
Management expects revenues in fiscal year 2019 to be higher than revenues during fiscal year 2018 but expects the gross profit margin to be lower in fiscal year 2019 than the gross profit margin during fiscal year 2018.
New orders received in the first three months of fiscal year 2019 and 2018 were approximately $6.9 million.
The minimum of $33.7 million does not include any shipments, which may be made against orders subsequently received during the fiscal year ending June 30, 2019.
The estimate of the September 30, 2018 backlog to be shipped in fiscal year 2019 is subject to future events, which may cause the amount of the backlog actually shipped to differ from such estimate.
In addition to the backlog, the Company currently has outstanding opportunities representing in excess of $69.5 million in the aggregate as of October 31, 2018 for both repeat and new programs.
The outstanding quotations encompass various new and previously manufactured power supplies, transformers, and subassemblies.
However, there can be no assurance that the Company will acquire any of the anticipated orders described above, many of which are subject to allocations of the United States defense spending and factors affecting the defense industry.
A significant portion of the Company’s business is the production of military and industrial electronic equipment for use by the U.S. and foreign governments and certain industrial customers.
Net sales to two significant customers represented 62.5% of the Company’s total sales for the three-month period ended September 30, 2018 and net sales to two significant customers represented 73.9% of the Company's total sales for the three-month period ended September 30, 2017.
This high concentration level with these customers presents significant risk.
We account for a contract after it has been approved by all parties to the arrangement, the rights of the parties are identified, payment terms are identified, the contract has commercial substance, and collectability of consideration is probable.
We assess each contract at its inception to determine whether it should be combined with other contracts.
When making this determination, we consider factors such as whether two or more contracts were negotiated and executed at or near the same time, or were negotiated with an overall profit objective.
We evaluate the products or services promised in each contract at inception to determine whether the contract should be accounted for as having one or more performance obligation.
Significant judgment is required in determining performance obligations.
We determine the transaction price for each contract based on the consideration we expect to receive for the products or services being provided under the contract.
The transaction price for each performance obligation is based on the estimated standalone selling price of the product or service underlying each performance obligation.
Transaction prices on our contracts subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR) are typically based on estimated or actual costs plus a reasonable profit margin.
We recognize revenue using the output method based on the appraisal of results achieved and milestones reached or units delivered based on contractual shipment terms, typically shipping point.
Work in process represents spare units and parts and other inventory items acquired or produced to service units previously sold or to meet anticipated future orders.
Provision for losses on contracts is made when the existence of such losses becomes probable and estimable.
The provision for losses on contracts is included in other accrued expenses on the Company’s balance sheet.
The costs attributed to units delivered under contracts are based on the estimated average cost of all units expected to be produced.
Certain contracts are expected to extend beyond twelve months.
The estimation of total cost at completion of a contract is subject to numerous variables involving contract costs and estimates as to the length of time to complete the contract.
The increase in net sales is primarily due to an increase in build to print sales offset, in part, by a decrease in power supply shipments.
Gross profit as a percentage of sales was 11.9% and 19.5%, for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The gross profits on mature products and build to print contracts are typically higher as compared to products which are still in the engineering development stage or in early stages of production.
In the case of the latter, the Company can incur what it refers to as “loss contracts,” meaning engineering design contracts in which the Company invests with the objective of developing future product sales.
The gross profit percentage decreased in the three months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to the same period in 2017 primarily due to the impact of incurred spending related to a specific engineering design contract.
This increase in spending reduced the gross profit percentage in the current quarter by 8.6%.
Selling, general and administrative expenses were $1,009,544 for the three months ended September 30, 2018; an increase of $130,724, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2017.
The increase for the three months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to the same period in 2017 relates primarily to the increase in employee compensation costs associated with added program management personnel supporting the Company’s sales backlog.
Other income for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 was $76,070 and $41,396, respectively.
The increase for the three months is primarily due to an increase in interest income resulting from the gradual increase in current yield percentages earned on investment securities.
Interest income is a function of the level of investments and investment strategies which generally tend to be conservative.
The Company’s effective income tax rates for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 was a benefit of 3.7% and an expense of 29.0%, respectively.
The effective tax rate in fiscal 2019 is less than the statutory tax rate mainly due to the benefit derived from the ESOP dividends paid on allocated shares.
In the current quarter, the Company reported a benefit for income taxes resulting from a tax adjustment related to the exercise of stock options during the quarter.
The effective tax rate in fiscal 2018 is less than the statutory tax rate mainly due to the benefit the Company received on its “qualified production activities” under The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 which expired after the end of fiscal 2018 and the benefit derived from the ESOP dividends paid on allocated shares.
The decrease in net income per share for the three months ended September 30, 2018 was mainly due to higher sales offset by lower gross profit and an increase in selling, general and administrative expenses when compared to the same period in 2017.
Gross profit for the three months ended September 30, 2018 decreased due to a decline in the gross profit percentage due to expenditures incurred on a specific engineering design contract.
The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses increased primarily due to employee compensation costs resulting from an increase in headcount.
The decrease in net income per share was mitigated, in part, by an increase in investment income and a reduction in income taxes resulting from the decrease in the Company’s effective tax rate and the benefit the Company received related to a tax adjustment for stock options exercised during the quarter.
The Company's working capital is an appropriate indicator of the liquidity of its business, and during the past two fiscal years, the Company, when possible, has funded all of its operations with cash flows resulting from operating activities and when necessary from its existing cash and investments.
The Company did not borrow any funds during the last two fiscal years.
Management has available a $3,000,000 line of credit to help fund further growth or working capital needs, if necessary, but does not anticipate the need for any borrowed funds in the foreseeable future.
Contingent liabilities on outstanding standby letters of credit agreements aggregated to zero at September 30, 2018 and 2017.
During the three-month period ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, the Company did not repurchase any shares of its common stock from the Company’s Employee Retirement Plan and Trust (“ESOP”).
Net cash used in operating activities fluctuates between periods primarily as a result of differences in sales and net income, provision for income taxes, the timing of the collection of accounts receivable, purchase of inventory, and payment of accounts payable.
The increase in cash used in operating activities compared to the prior year primarily relates to an increase in accounts receivable and inventories attributed to the sales volume and backlog increases offset, in part, by a decrease in net income, prepaid expenses and an increase in accounts payable.
The increase in cash provided by financing activities is due to cash proceeds received from the exercise of stock options during the three months ended 2018 compared with no stock option exercised for the same period in 2017.
In addition, the prior year includes cash expended for the regular quarterly dividend declared and paid during the quarter.
In the current fiscal period, the regular dividend and a special dividend approximating $3 million in total was declared but not paid to shareholders until the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
The Company currently believes that the cash flow generated from operations and when necessary, from cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet its long-term funding requirements for the foreseeable future.
During the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, the Company expended $611,995 and $28,758, respectively, for plant improvements and new equipment.
The Company has budgeted approximately $750,000 for new equipment and plant improvements in fiscal year 2019.
Management anticipates that the funds required will be available from current operations.
Management believes that the Company's reserve for bad debts of $3,000 is adequate given the customers with whom the Company does business.
This report contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
The Company wishes to caution readers not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made.
 Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
 (1)Pursuant to a prior Board of Directors authorization, as of September 30, 2018 the Company can repurchase up to $876,297 of its common stock pursuant to an ongoing plan.
