fls.txt



item1.txt
See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The majority of our leases with options to extend provide for extensions of up to five years with the ability to terminate the lease within one year.
Operating costs include short-term lease costs which were immaterial during the period.
Sales and usage-based taxes are excluded from revenues.
We ended the third quarter of 2019 with $1.2 million in cash and cash equivalents, of which $0.2 million was held by our U.K. subsidiary, and no debt outstanding.
As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, the Company determines its incremental borrowing rate by using the rate of interest that the Company would have to pay to borrow on a collateralized basis over a similar term, an amount equal to the lease payments in a similar economic environment.
For the three months ended September 30, 2019, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per share, totaling $672 thousand, which was paid on September 16, 2019 to common shareholders of record at the close of business on August 20, 2019.
The accompanying unaudited financial statements of TransAct Technologies Incorporated (“TransAct”, the “Company”, “we”, “us”, or “our”) have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S.
Consequently, financial information for prior periods will not be updated, and the disclosures required under the new standard will not be provided for dates and periods before January 1, 2019.


item2.txt
In July 2019, TransAct announced that it secured a new agreement with a large U.S. foodservice provider for the deployment of BOHA!
The amendment increased the amount of revolving credit loans we may use to fund future cash dividend payments or treasury share buybacks to $12.5 million from $10 million.
Hardware sales increased by 2% in the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018.
For the first nine months of 2019, our cash and cash equivalents balance decreased $3.5 million, or 74%, from December 31, 2018.
As used in this Report, unless the context otherwise requires, references to “we”, “us”, “our”, the “Company” and “TransAct” refer to the consolidated operations of TransAct Technologies Incorporated, and its consolidated subsidiaries.
Internationally, TSG revenue increased during the first nine months of 2019 compared to the first nine months of 2018 primarily due to a 38% increase in sales of replacement parts and accessories to international casino and gaming customers.
For the first nine months of 2019, our cash and cash equivalents balance decreased $3.5 million, or 74%, from December 31, 2018.
hardware and software solutions by 2019 year end with an additional approximately 250 locations expected to go live over the following two years.
The decrease in domestic revenue from TSG for the third quarter of 2019 as compared to the prior year period was due primarily to lower sales of replacement parts including lower sales of lottery printer spare parts to IGT.
The decrease in domestic revenue from TSG for the third quarter of 2019 as compared to the prior year period was due primarily to lower sales of replacement parts including lower sales of lottery printer spare parts to IGT.
General and administrative expenses increased $509 thousand, or 8%, in the first nine months of 2019 compared to the first nine months of 2018 due primarily to higher professional and legal expenses.
hardware and software solutions by 2019 year end with an additional approximately 250 locations expected to go live over the following two years.
solution sale to a casino operator located in the Asia-Pacific market.
  ●  Accrued liabilities and other liabilities decreased $0.1 million, or 3%.
Note that we have reclassified sales of labels and other recurring revenue items, which includes extended warranty and service contracts, and technical support services previously included in TSG to Restaurant Solutions for all periods presented in this Report.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 6.
Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”) (our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, respectively), evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of September 30, 2019.


part2.txt
Material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting existed as of September 30, 2019 regarding our internal controls over user access to ensure appropriate segregation of duties and to adequately restrict user access to appropriate personnel.
Specifically, the provisioning and user recertification controls are not designed to ensure users maintain proper segregation of duties and therefore could have inappropriate access rights.
In 2016, the United Kingdom (“U.K.”) voted to depart from the European Union (“E.U.”), commonly known as “Brexit” and subsequently notified the European Council of its intention to leave the E.U.


