fls.txt



item1.txt
EPICENTRALTM is primarily comprised of both a software component, which is licensed to the customer, and a hardware component.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments considered necessary for a fair statement of the results for the periods presented have been included and are of a normal recurring nature.
The adoption of the ASC 606 did not require the Company to record an adjustment to retained earnings at January 1, 2018 and did not have an impact on the first quarter consolidated income statement, basic or diluted earnings per share, consolidated statement of cash flows or consolidated balance sheet at March 31, 2018.
The transaction prices from EPICENTRAL™ software license and hardware are recognized upon installation and formal acceptance by the customer when control of the license is transferred to the customer.
Assets and liabilities of such subsidiary have been translated at the end of period exchange rates, and related revenues and expenses have been translated at the weighted average exchange rates with the resulting translation gain or loss recorded in "Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax", in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The adoption of the ASC 606 did not require the Company to record an adjustment to retained earnings at January 1, 2018 and did not have an impact on the first quarter consolidated income statement, basic or diluted earnings per share, consolidated statement of cash flows or consolidated balance sheet at March 31, 2018.
The Company sells the performance obligations separately and has established standalone selling prices for its products and services.
Leases with a term of 12 months or less will be accounted for similar to existing guidance for operating leases today.
On December 22, 2017, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
For our separately priced extended warranty and maintenance agreements (including free one-year maintenance received by the customers upon completion of EPICENTRAL™ installation) revenue is recognized over-time as the customer receives the benefit.
The transaction price is recognized upon shipment of the order when control of the goods is transferred to the customer and at the time the performance obligation is fulfilled.
Remaining performance obligations represents the transaction price of firm orders for which a good or service has not been delivered to our customer.


item2.txt
Net sales for the first quarter of 2018 decreased $1.8 million, or 13%, from the same period in 2017.
In September 2012, our Board of Directors initiated a quarterly cash dividend program, with an initial quarterly dividend of $0.06 per share, subject to the Board's approval each quarter.
We sell our products to original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"), value-added resellers ("VARs"), select distributors, as well as directly to end-users.
We have reviewed those policies and determined that they remain our critical accounting policies for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
We believe that our cash and cash equivalents on hand, our expected cash flows generated from operating activities and borrowings available under our TD Bank Credit Facility will provide sufficient resources to meet our working capital needs, finance our capital expenditures and dividend payments and meet our liquidity requirements through at least the next twelve months.
Sales of our off-premise gaming printers are largely project-oriented and therefore may fluctuate significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year.
  ●  Accrued liabilities and other liabilities decreased $872 thousand, or 21%, due primarily to the payment of 2017 annual bonuses in March 2018.
  ●  Accounts receivable decreased $2.3 million, or 21%, due to the collection of past due receivables for 2017 sales made to our former international casino and gaming distributor.
Through our webstore, www.transactsupplies.com, and our direct selling team, we address the demand for these products.
On March 1, 2018, our Board of Directors approved a new stock repurchase program (the "2018 Stock Repurchase Program").
We expect general and administrative expenses in 2018 to be higher than 2017 due to increased recruiting expenses as we continue to expand our restaurant solutions sales and engineering staff and complete the planned expansion of sales staff for our European casino and gaming market.
  ●  Accounts payable decreased $740 thousand, or 19%, due primarily to higher inventory purchases made towards the end of the fourth quarter of 2017 compared to the first quarter of 2018 that were subsequently paid in the first quarter of 2018.
The decrease in domestic POS automation and banking product revenue in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the first quarter of 2017 was primarily driven by a 27% decrease in domestic sales of our Ithaca® 9000 printer, as sales to McDonald's slowed compared to the record pace experienced in 2016 and the first quarter of 2017.
The effective tax rate in the first quarter of 2018 was lower than the effective tax rate in the first quarter of 2017 due to the passage of the Tax Reform Act that was signed on December 22, 2017.


item3.txt



item4.txt
None.


part2.txt
Item 6.
The Company may, in the ordinary course of business, become a party to litigation involving collection matters, contract claims and other legal proceedings relating to the conduct of its business.


