fls.txt
Certain statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2019 (this “Report”), including without limitation statements in this Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, which are not historical facts are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”) and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


item1.txt
The Company expects to recognize revenue on $4.3 million of its remaining performance obligations within the next 12 months, $0.7 million within the next 24 months and the balance of these remaining performance obligations within the next 36 months.
See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, there were 540 thousand and 147 thousand, respectively, of potentially dilutive shares consisting of stock awards that were excluded from the calculation of earnings per diluted share.
The Company may, in the ordinary course of business, become a party to litigation involving collection matters, contract claims and other legal proceedings relating to the conduct of its business.
As of March 31, 2019, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations was $5.1 million.
Leases with a term of 12 months or less will be accounted for similar to existing guidance for operating leases today.
The new standard requires lessees to apply a dual approach, classifying leases as either finance or operating leases based on the principle of whether or not the lease is effectively a financed purchase by the lessee.
The new standard requires lessees to apply a dual approach, classifying leases as either finance or operating leases based on the principle of whether or not the lease is effectively a financed purchase by the lessee.
There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in that Annual Report on Form 10-K.
There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in that Annual Report on Form 10-K.


item2.txt
  ●  Accounts receivable decreased $1.2 million, or 15%, due to the collection of receivables for 2018 sales.
hardware product for the restaurant solutions market.
We have reviewed those policies and determined that they remain our critical accounting policies for the three months ended March 31, 2019.
These increases were offset by a 31% decrease in sales of lottery printer spare parts to IGT.
  ●  Accrued liabilities and other liabilities decreased $0.9 million, or 21%, due primarily to the payment of 2017 annual bonuses in March 2018.
We recorded net interest expense of $6 thousand for the first quarter of 2019 compared to $8 thousand for the first quarter of 2018.
We also offer world-class service, support, spare parts, accessories and printing supplies to our growing worldwide base of products currently in use by our customers.
The decrease in domestic restaurant solutions revenue for the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018 was driven largely by lower sales of our AccuDate 9700 terminal to our former U.S. distributor.
  ●  Other current and long term assets increased $0.4 million, or 65%, due primarily to an advanced payment of royalty fees.
This increase was partially offset by a 70% decline in international sales of our off-premise gaming printers to Europe, Australia and Asia.
software on a SaaS subscription basis.
Going forward, we may continue to experience more foreign exchange gains or losses depending on the level of sales to Europe through our U.K. subsidiary and the change in exchange rates of the Euro and Pound Sterling against the U.S. dollar.
We expect domestic and international casino and gaming sales in 2019 to be relatively consistent with the sales levels achieved during 2018.
In 2012, our Board of Directors initiated a quarterly cash dividend program which is subject to the Board’s approval each quarter.
  ●  Accounts payable decreased $1.3 million, or 36%, due primarily to inventory purchases made towards the end of the fourth quarter of 2018 that were subsequently paid in the first quarter of 2019.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


part2.txt
 Item 6.
The Company may, in the ordinary course of business, become a party to litigation involving collection matters, contract claims and other legal proceedings relating to the conduct of its business.


