fls.txt



item1.txt
Some of our contracts with customers contain a single performance obligation, while other contracts contain multiple performance obligations (most commonly when contracts include product and extended warranties).
The transaction price is recognized upon shipment of the order when control of the goods is transferred to the customer and at the time the performance obligation is fulfilled.
Remaining performance obligations represents the transaction price of firm orders for which a good or service has not been delivered to our customer.
On December 22, 2017, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
The Company may, in the ordinary course of business, become a party to litigation involving collection matters, contract claims and other legal proceedings relating to the conduct of its business.
Variable consideration is included in the transaction price if, in the Company's judgment, it is probable that a significant future reversal of cumulative revenue under the contract will not occur.
There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in that Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The transaction prices from EPICENTRAL™ software license and hardware are recognized upon installation and formal acceptance by the customer when control of the license is transferred to the customer.
See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Company may, in the ordinary course of business, become a party to litigation involving collection matters, contract claims and other legal proceedings relating to the conduct of its business.


item2.txt
The increase in domestic sales of our casino and gaming products was due to an 8% increase in domestic sales of our thermal casino printer sales in the second quarter of 2018 compared to the second quarter of 2017, driven primarily by increased sales to our OEMs.
These increases were due to the early success of the transition away from using our previous exclusive worldwide distributor whose contract ended at the end of 2017.
International sales for the second quarter of 2018 increased $2.3 million, or 221%, from the same period in 2017 due primarily to a 267% increase in sales in the international casino and gaming market.
We reported net income for the second quarter of 2018 of $1.2 million, or $0.16 per diluted share compared to $867 thousand, or $0.12 per diluted share, for the second quarter of 2017.
We expect selling and marketing expenses to be higher in 2018 compared to 2017 due to the build-out of our internal sales infrastructure to sell directly to slot machine manufacturers and end user casino and gaming customers in Europe during 2018.
Replacement part sales decreased 6% due to lower sales of lottery printer spare parts to IGT.
Impact of Inflation.
The increase in both domestic and international POS automation and banking product revenue from the second quarter of 2017 was driven by an 21% increase in sales of our Ithaca® 9000 printer, as sales to McDonald's have returned to the near record levels experienced during 2017.
The increase in international sales in the first half of 2018 compared to the first half of 2017 was due to a 118% increase of thermal casino printer sales and, to a lesser extent, a 13% increase in international sales of off-premise gaming printers.
This increase was partially offset by a $1.1 million sales decrease in our international lottery market during the first half of 2018 compared to the first half of 2017.
The increase in domestic restaurant solutions terminal sales in the first half of 2018 compared to the first half of 2017 was primarily driven by increased sales of our AccuDate 9700 terminal during the first half of 2018 and the initial shipments of the AccuDate XL to two large corporate customers in support of a large-scale, multi-quarter rollouts of the terminal.
Engineering, design and product development expenses increased $391 thousand, or 19%, in the first half of 2018 compared to the first half of 2017 due primarily to the hiring of additional engineering staff and increased expenses related to product development for the restaurant solutions and casino and gaming markets.
Replacement part sales decreased 6% due to lower sales of lottery printer spare parts to IGT.
Our world-class products are designed from the ground up based on market and customer requirements and are sold under the AccuDate™, Epic, EPICENTRAL™, Ithaca® and Printrex® brand names.
We recorded other expense of $87 thousand in the first half of 2018 compared to $8 thousand in the first half of 2017 due to higher foreign exchange losses recorded by our U.K. entity in the first half of 2018 compared to the first half of 2017.
  ●  We reported net income of $1.9 million.
Shipments of AccuDate XL terminals exceeded sales of AccuDate 9700 terminals for the first time in the second quarter of 2018.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer (our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, respectively), evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of June 30, 2018.


part2.txt
The Company may, in the ordinary course of business, become a party to litigation involving collection matters, contract claims and other legal proceedings relating to the conduct of its business.


