fls.txt
These statements reflect our current views with respect to future events and our potential financial performance and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results and financial position to differ materially and adversely from what is projected or implied in any forward-looking statements included in this Form 10-Q.


item1.txt
Except for the adoption of the new accounting standards for leases mentioned below, no material changes have been made to the Company’s significant accounting policies disclosed in Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Pronouncements, in its Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed on February 13, 2019, for the year ended December 31, 2018.
Upon adoption, the Company recognized both right-of-use assets and corresponding lease liabilities of approximately $7.3 million and $7.2 million, respectively, on the condensed consolidated balance sheet.
The Company did not transfer any investments between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair-value hierarchy in the six months ended June 30, 2019, and the twelve months ended December 31, 2018.
Stock-based compensation expense in the three months ended June 30, 2019, was approximately $5.5 million, comprising approximately $4.2 million related to restricted stock unit (RSU) awards, $0.9 million related to performance-based (PSU) awards and long-term performance-based (PRSU) awards and $0.4 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan.
In the six months ended June 30, 2019, stock-based compensation expense was approximately $9.9 million, comprising approximately $8.8 million related to RSUs, $0.3 million related to PSUs and PRSUs and $0.8 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan.
Stock-based compensation expense in the three months ended June 30, 2018, was approximately $6.1 million, comprising approximately $3.9 million related to RSUs, $1.8 million related to PSUs and PRSUs and $0.4 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan.
In the six months ended June 30, 2018, stock-based compensation expense was approximately $11.7 million, comprising approximately $8.2 million related to RSUs, $2.7 million related to PSUs and PRSUs and $0.8 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan.
Under the performance-based awards program, the Company grants awards in the performance year in an amount equal to twice the target number of shares to be issued if the maximum performance metrics are met.
The number of shares that are released at the end of the performance year can range from zero to 200% of the target number depending on the Company’s performance.
The fair value of these PSUs is determined using the fair value of the Company’s common stock on the date of the grant, reduced by the discounted present value of dividends expected to be declared before the awards vest.
In January 2019, it was determined that approximately 26,000 shares of the PSUs granted in 2018 vested in aggregate; the shares were released to the Company’s employees and executives in the first quarter of 2019.
The actual number of shares the recipient receives is determined at the end of a three-year performance period based on results achieved versus the Company's performance goals, and may range from zero to 200% of the target number.
The performance goals for PRSUs granted in fiscal 2017, 2018 and 2019 were based on the Company’s annual revenue growth over the respective three-year performance period.
In January 2019, it was determined that approximately 70,000 shares of the PRSUs granted in 2016, vested in aggregate; the shares were released to the Company’s executives in the first quarter of 2019.
The Company's top ten customers accounted for approximately 56% and 54% of net revenues for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, and approximately 59% and 58%, respectively, of net revenues in the corresponding periods of the previous year.
In each of three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, one customer, a distributor of the Company's products, accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s net revenues.


item2.txt
A large percentage of our products are ICs used in AC-DC power supplies, which convert the high-voltage AC from a wall outlet to the low-voltage DC required by most electronic devices.
Power supplies incorporating our products are used with all manner of electronic products including mobile phones, computing and networking equipment, appliances, electronic utility meters, power tools, industrial controls, and “smart-home,” or “internet of things” applications such as networked thermostats, power strips and other building-automation and security devices.
Our products also improve the energy efficiency of power converters, helping our customers meet the increasingly stringent efficiency standards that have been adopted around the world for many electronic products, and improving the efficacy of renewable-energy systems, electric vehicles and other high-power applications.
We also continue to expand our sales and application-engineering staff and our network of distributors, as well as our offerings of technical documentation and design-support tools and services to help customers use our products.
Also, our gate-driver products are critical components in energy-efficient DC motor drives, high-voltage DC transmission systems, renewable-energy installations and electric transportation applications.
These include the introduction of products that enable us to address higher-power AC-DC applications (such as our Hiper™ product families), the introduction of LED-driver products, and our entry into the gate-driver market through the acquisition of CT-Concept Technologie AG in 2012.
For example, our InnoSwitch™ ICs integrate circuitry from the secondary, or low-voltage, side of AC-DC power supplies, whereas earlier product families integrated circuitry only on the primary, or high-voltage side.
Our net revenues were $102.9 million and $109.5 million in the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $192.1 million and $212.6 million in the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
These decreases were partially offset by growth in the communications and computer end markets, driven by increased demand for our products in cellphone and tablet chargers, respectively.
The decrease in the six-month period reflects a broad-based decline in demand across all end markets resulting from global trade disputes.


item3.txt
There has not been a material change in our exposure to foreign currency exchange and interest rate risks from that described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio.


item4.txt
Any control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance as to the tested objectives.


part2.txt



