No material changes have been made to the Company's significant accounting policies disclosed in Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Pronouncements, in its Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed on February 14, 2018, for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Stock-based compensation expense in the three months ended September 30, 2018, was approximately $4.4 million (comprising approximately $4.2 million related to restricted stock unit (RSU) awards, a reduction to expense of $0.1 million related to performance-based (PSU) awards and long-term performance-based (PRSU) awards and $0.3 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan).
In the nine months ended September 30, 2018, stock-based compensation expense was approximately $16.1 million (comprising approximately $12.4 million related to RSUs, $2.6 million related to PSUs and PRSUs and $1.1 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan).
Stock-based compensation expense in the three months ended September 30, 2017, was approximately $6.5 million (comprising approximately $4.0 million related to RSUs, $2.2 million related to PSUs and PRSUs and $0.3 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan).
In the nine months ended September 30, 2017, stock-based compensation expense was approximately $17.8 million (comprising approximately $11.2 million related to RSUs, $5.7 million related to PSUs and PRSUs and $0.9 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan).
Under the performance-based awards program, the Company grants awards in the performance year in an amount equal to twice the target number of shares to be issued if the maximum performance metrics are met.
The number of shares that are released at the end of the performance year can range from zero to 200% of the target number depending on the Company’s performance.
The actual number of shares the recipient receives is determined at the end of a three-year performance period based on results achieved versus the Company's performance goals, and may range from zero to 200% of the target number.
The performance goals for PRSUs granted in fiscal 2016, 2017 and 2018 were based on the Company’s annual revenue growth over the respective three-year performance period.
In each of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, one customer, a distributor of the Company's products, accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s net revenues.
No other customer accounted for 10% or more of the Company’s net revenues in the periods presented.Power supplies incorporating our products are used with all manner of electronic products including mobile phones, computing and networking equipment, appliances, electronic utility meters, power tools, industrial controls, and lighting applications that utilize light-emitting diodes (LEDs), and “smart-home,” or “internet of things” applications such as networked thermostats, power strips and other building-automation and security devices.
Our products also improve the energy efficiency of power converters, helping our customers meet the increasingly stringent efficiency standards that have been adopted around the world for many electronic products, and improving the efficiency of renewable-energy systems, electric vehicles and other high-power applications.
the introduction of products that enable us to address higher-power AC-DC applications (such as our Hiper™ product families, which address applications up to about 500 watts) and our entry into the gate-driver market through the acquisition of CT-Concept Technologie AG in 2012.
For example, applications such as LED lighting, “smart” utility meters, battery-powered lawn equipment and bicycles, and USB power ports (installed alongside traditional AC wall outlets) can incorporate our products; the increased use of electronic intelligence and controls in consumer appliances has also enhanced our SAM.
Our net revenues were $110.1 million and $111.3 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $322.6 million and $323.5 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
These decreases were mostly offset by growth in the industrial end-market, driven by a broad range of applications, and the computer end-market, driven by growth in power supplies for tablets.Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio.