Except for the adoption of the new accounting standards for leases mentioned below, no material changes have been made to the Company’s significant accounting policies disclosed in Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Pronouncements, in its Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed on February 13, 2019, for the year ended December 31, 2018.
Upon adoption, the Company recognized both right-of-use assets and corresponding lease liabilities of approximately $7.3 million and $7.2 million, respectively, on the condensed consolidated balance sheet.
The Company did not transfer any investments between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair-value hierarchy in the nine months ended September 30, 2019, and the twelve months ended December 31, 2018.
Stock-based compensation expense in the three months ended September 30, 2019, was approximately $5.1 million, comprising approximately $4.4 million related to restricted stock unit (RSU) awards, $0.3 million related to performance-based (PSU) awards and long-term performance-based (PRSU) awards and $0.4 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan.
In the nine months ended September 30, 2019, stock-based compensation expense was approximately $15.0 million, comprising approximately $13.2 million related to RSUs, $0.6 million related to PSUs and PRSUs and $1.2 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan.
Stock-based compensation expense in the three months ended September 30, 2018, was approximately $4.4 million, comprising approximately $4.2 million related to RSUs, a reduction to expense of $0.1 million related to PSUs and PRSUs and $0.3 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan.
In the nine months ended September 30, 2018, stock-based compensation expense was approximately $16.1 million, comprising approximately $12.4 million related to RSUs, $2.6 million related to PSUs and PRSUs and $1.1 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan.
Under the performance-based awards program, the Company grants awards in the performance year in an amount equal to twice the target number of shares to be issued if the maximum performance metrics are met.
The number of shares that are released at the end of the performance year can range from zero to 200% of the target number depending on the Company’s performance.
In January 2019, it was determined that approximately 26,000 shares of the PSUs granted in 2018 vested in aggregate; the shares were released to the Company’s employees and executives in the first quarter of 2019.
The actual number of shares the recipient receives is determined at the end of a three-year performance period based on results achieved versus the Company's performance goals, and may range from zero to 200% of the target number.A large percentage of our products are ICs used in AC-DC power supplies, which convert the high-voltage AC from a wall outlet to the low-voltage DC required by most electronic devices.
Our products also improve the energy efficiency of power converters, helping our customers meet the increasingly stringent efficiency standards that have been adopted around the world for many electronic products, and improving the efficacy of renewable-energy systems, electric vehicles and other high-power applications.
We currently address AC-DC applications with power outputs up to approximately 500 watts, gate-driver applications of approximately ten kilowatts and higher, and motor-drive applications up to approximately 300 watts.
We also continue to expand our sales and application-engineering staff and our network of distributors, as well as our offerings of technical documentation and design-support tools and services to help customers use our products.
Also, our gate-driver products are critical components in energy-efficient DC motor drives, high-voltage DC transmission systems, solar and wind energy systems and electric transportation applications.
These include the introduction of products that enable us to address higher-power AC-DC applications (such as our Hiper™ product families), the introduction of LED-driver products, and our entry into the gate-driver market through the acquisition of CT-Concept Technologie AG in 2012.There has not been a material change in our exposure to foreign currency exchange and interest rate risks from that described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.