fls.txt
Additionally, statements concerning future matters such as the development of new products, enhancements of technologies, sales levels, expense levels and other statements regarding matters that are not historical are forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
Financial Statements.
This information should be read in conjunction with the Company’s financial statements and notes thereto contained in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2017, filed with the SEC on November 13, 2017, as amended by Amendment No.
Significant judgment is required in determining the reserves for and fair value of items such as overall fair value assessments of assets and liabilities, particularly those classified as Level 2 or Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy, inventory, intangible assets associated with business combinations, share-based compensation, loss contingencies, and income taxes.
In addition, significant judgment is required in determining whether a potential indicator of impairment of long-lived assets exists and in estimating future cash flows for any necessary impairment testing.
Fiscal year 2017 consisted of 52 weeks and ended on September 29, 2017.
The second quarters of fiscal year 2018 and fiscal year 2017 each consisted of 13 weeks and ended on March 30, 2018, and March 31, 2017, respectively.
The adoption also resulted in an increase in cash flow from operations and a decrease of cash flow from financing of $22.5 million for the six months ended March 30, 2018.
Prior periods have not been adjusted.
Forfeitures in the future will now be recorded as a benefit in the period they are realized.
of 2018 and applied it prospectively, as permitted by the standard.
The adoption of this standard did not impact the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
We are currently evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-02 will have on the consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230), (“ASU 2016-15”).
We are currently evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-15 will have on the consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740), Intra-entity Transfers of an Asset Other than Inventory (“ASU 2016-16”).
This ASU provides guidance that changes the accounting for income tax effects of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.


item2.txt
This report and other documents we have filed with the SEC contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and are subject to the “safe harbor” created by those sections.
We caution readers not to place undue reliance upon any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made.
In this document, the words “we,” “our,” “ours” and “us” refer only to Skyworks Solutions, Inc. and its subsidiaries and not any other person or entity.
We, together with our consolidated subsidiaries, are empowering the wireless networking revolution.
Our highly innovative analog semiconductors are connecting people, places, and things spanning a number of new and previously unimagined applications within the automotive, broadband, cellular infrastructure, connected home, industrial, medical, military, smartphone, tablet and wearable markets.
This increase in revenue was primarily driven by our success in capturing a higher share of the increasing radio frequency and analog content per device as smartphone models continue to evolve, the increasing number of applications for the Internet of Things, and our expanding analog product portfolio supporting new vertical markets including automotive, industrial, medical and military.
We market and sell our products directly to original equipment manufacturers of communications and electronics products, third-party original design manufacturers and contract manufacturers, and indirectly through electronic components distributors.
We generally experience seasonal peaks during the second half of the calendar year, primarily as a result of increased worldwide production of consumer electronics in anticipation of increased holiday sales, whereas our second fiscal quarter is typically lower and in line with seasonal industry trends.


item3.txt
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.
Our exposure to interest rate and general market risks relates principally to our investment portfolio, which consists of cash and cash equivalents (time deposits, certificates of deposit and money market funds) that total approximately $1,881.3 million as of March 30, 2018.


item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights.
Item 1A.


