fls.txt
Additionally, statements concerning future matters such as the development of new products, enhancements of technologies, sales levels, expense levels and other statements regarding matters that are not historical are forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
Financial Statements.
Skyworks Solutions, Inc., together with its consolidated subsidiaries (“Skyworks” or the “Company”), is empowering the wireless networking revolution.
1 to such Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the SEC on January 26, 2018 (the “2017 10-K”).
Significant judgment is required in determining the reserves for and fair value of items such as allowance for doubtful accounts, overall fair value assessments of assets and liabilities, particularly those classified as Level 2 or Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy, inventory, intangible assets associated with business combinations, share-based compensation, loss contingencies, and income taxes.
In addition, significant judgment is required in determining whether a potential indicator of impairment of long-lived assets exists and in estimating future cash flows for any necessary impairment testing.
Forfeitures in the future will now be recorded as a benefit in the period they are realized.
•Level 1 - Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
•Level 2 - Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in markets with insufficient volume or infrequent transactions (less active markets), or model-driven valuations in which all significant inputs are observable or can be derived principally from, or corroborated with, observable market data.
There have been no transfers between Level 1, 2 or 3 assets or liabilities during the three months ended December 29, 2017.
Contingent consideration related to business combinations is recorded as a Level 3 liability because management uses significant judgments and unobservable inputs to determine the fair value.


item2.txt
Item 2.
We, together with our consolidated subsidiaries, are empowering the wireless networking revolution.
Our highly innovative analog semiconductors are connecting people, places, and things spanning a number of new and previously unimagined applications within the automotive, broadband, cellular infrastructure, connected home, industrial, medical, military, smartphone, tablet and wearable markets.
This increase in cash and cash equivalents was primarily the result of cash generated from operations of $361 million, partially offset by the repurchase of 1.65 million shares of common stock for $173 million, dividend payments of $59 million, and capital expenditures of $28 million during the three months ended December 29, 2017.
We generally experience seasonal peaks during the second half of the calendar year, primarily as a result of increased worldwide production of consumer electronics in anticipation of increased holiday sales, whereas our second fiscal quarter is typically lower and in line with seasonal industry trends.
We generated net revenue of $1,051.9 million for the three months ended December 29, 2017, an increase of $137.6 million or 15%, as compared with $914.3 million for the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017.
Gross profit represents net revenue less cost of goods sold.
Our cost of goods sold consists primarily of purchased materials, labor and overhead (including depreciation and share-based compensation expense) associated with product manufacturing.
Erosion of average selling prices of established products is typical of the semiconductor industry.
The $72.9 million increase in gross profit for the three months ended December 29, 2017, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, was primarily the result of favorable product mix and higher unit volumes that positively impacted gross profit by $81.2 million.


item3.txt
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.
We are subject to overall financial market risks, such as changes in market liquidity, credit quality, investment risk, interest rate risk, and foreign exchange rate risk as described below.
Our exposure to interest rate and general market risks relates principally to our investment portfolio, which consists of cash and cash equivalents (time deposits, certificates of deposit and money market funds) that total approximately $1,681.5 million as of December 29, 2017.
The main objectives of our investment activities are liquidity and preservation of capital.
Our cash equivalent investments have short-term maturity periods that dampen the impact of market or interest rate risk.


item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
Item 1A.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.


