fls.txt
Additionally, statements concerning future matters such as the development of new products, enhancements of technologies, sales levels, expense levels and other statements regarding matters that are not historical are forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
Financial Statements.
The accompanying unaudited interim consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) for interim financial reporting.
1 to such Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the SEC on January 25, 2019 (the “2018 10-K”).
Significant judgment is required in determining the reserves for and fair value of items such as overall fair value assessments of assets and liabilities, particularly those classified as Level 2 or Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy, marketable securities, inventory, intangible assets associated with business combinations, share-based compensation, loss contingencies, and income taxes.
Fiscal 2018 consisted of 52 weeks and ended on September 28, 2018.
Refer to Note 2, Revenue Recognition, for additional information.
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740), Intra-entity Transfers of an Asset Other than Inventory (“ASU 2016-16”).
This ASU provides guidance that changes the accounting for income tax effects of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
Under the new guidance, the selling (transferring) entity is required to recognize a current tax expense or benefit upon transfer of the asset.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments (Topic 320), (“ASU 2016-13”).
This ASU requires a financial asset (or a group of financial assets) measured on the basis of amortized cost to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected.
This ASU requires that the income statement reflect the measurement of credit losses for newly recognized financial assets as well as the expected increases or decreases of expected credit losses that have taken place during the period.
This ASU requires that credit losses of debt securities designated as available-for-sale be recorded through an allowance for credit losses.
amortized cost.
This ASU provides guidance for the recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of financial assets and liabilities.
In June 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-07, Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718), Improvements to Nonemployee Share-based Payments (“ASU 2018-07”).
The new guidance is required to be applied retrospectively with the cumulative effect recognized at the date of initial application.


item2.txt
Item 2.
We caution readers not to place undue reliance upon any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made.
We, together with our consolidated subsidiaries, are empowering the wireless networking revolution.
We market and sell our products directly to OEMs of communications and electronics products, third-party original design manufacturers and contract manufacturers, and indirectly through electronic components distributors.
We generated net revenue of $972.0 million for the three months ended December 28, 2018, a decrease of $79.9 million or 7.6%, as compared with $1,051.9 million for the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
This decrease in net revenue is primarily related to weakness in smartphone demand, partially offset by increasing RF content per smartphone.
Gross profit represents net revenue less cost of goods sold.


item3.txt
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.
We are subject to overall financial market risks, such as changes in market liquidity, credit quality, investment risk, interest rate risk, and foreign exchange rate risk as described below.


item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights.
Item 1A.


