The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements also include the balances of all voting interest entities in which Leidos has a controlling voting interest (“subsidiaries”) and a variable interest entity ("VIE") in which Leidos is the primary beneficiary.
The consolidated balances of the Company’s VIE are not material to the Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for the periods presented.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU 2016-02 ("ASC 842"), which supersedes the current lease guidance under Leases (Topic 840) and makes several changes, such as requiring an entity to recognize a right-of-use ("ROU") asset and corresponding lease obligation on the balance sheet, classified as financing or operating, as appropriate.
The Company did not elect the hindsight practical expedient to determine the lease term for existing leases and in assessing the impairment for the ROU assets.
As a result of the adoption of the new standard, the Company recorded $433 million and $486 million of ROU assets and lease liabilities, respectively, primarily due to its operating leases, to the Company's consolidated balance sheets.
The Company also recorded a $48 million increase in retained earnings due to the cumulative effect of recognizing the gain, net of taxes, related to the sale of the San Diego properties (see "Note 10–Property, Plant and Equipment").
The update is effective for public companies for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2019, and should be adopted using a modified retrospective approach, which applies a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the first reporting period in which the guidance is effective.
ROU assets represent the Company’s right to use an underlying asset over the lease term and lease liabilities represent its obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
ROU assets and lease liabilities are recorded on the consolidated balance sheet at lease commencement date based on the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term.
The remaining lease cost is allocated over the remaining lease term on a straight-line basis unless another systematic or rational basis is more representative of the pattern in which the underlying asset is expected to be used.
Variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate are included in the determination of right-of-use assets and lease liabilities using the index or rate at the lease commencement date, whereas variable lease payments that do not depend on a index or rate are recorded as lease expense in the period incurred.
As a result of the adoption of ASC 842, the Company elected to not separate non-lease components from lease components and instead account for both components as a single lease, combining lease and non-lease components in revenue arrangements.
The related lease payments on the Company’s short-term facilities and equipment leases are recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.Effective the beginning of fiscal 2019, we changed the composition of our Defense Solutions reportable segment to better align the operations within the reportable segment to the customers we serve.
U.S. Government Markets During the three months ended March 29, 2019, we generated approximately 87% of our total revenues from contracts with the U.S. government.
Accordingly, our business performance is affected by the overall level of U.S. government spending, especially on national security, homeland security and intelligence, and the alignment of our service and product offerings and capabilities with current and future budget priorities of the U.S. government.
In September 2018, Congress passed and the President signed a consolidated appropriations bill funding the Departments of Defense, Labor, and Health and Human Services for the full government fiscal year ("GFY") 2019.Controls and Procedures.Item 1.