fls.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (Form 10-Q) contains certain forward-looking information relating to CA, Inc. (which we refer to as the “Company,” “Registrant,” “CA Technologies,” “CA,” “we,” “our” or “us”), that is based on the beliefs of, and assumptions made by, our management as well as information currently available to management.


item1.txt
At December 31, 2017 and March 31, 2017, the total amount of restricted cash included in “Other noncurrent assets, net” in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets was approximately $3 million and $1 million, respectively.
2016-09 (ASU 2016-09), Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting (Topic 718), which is intended to simplify several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment award transactions, including the income tax consequences and classification on the statements of cash flows.
The adoption of ASU 2016-09 resulted in the presentation of cash flows for employee taxes paid by withholding shares of restricted stock as a financing activity within the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, which were previously presented as an operating activity.
As permitted by ASU 2016-09, although not material, the Company elected to retrospectively reclassify cash flows related to excess tax benefits on share-based compensation expense as an operating activity within the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, which were previously presented as a financing activity.
In August 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No.
The adoption of these standards did not have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
In May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, with amendments in 2015, 2016 and 2017, which creates new ASC Topic 606 (Topic 606) that will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in GAAP when it becomes effective.
The new standard will be effective for the Company’s first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and early application for fiscal year 2018 is permitted.
Although the Company continues to evaluate the items listed above, it does not currently expect Topic 606 to have a significant effect on its customer billings and cash collections from customer billings.


item2.txt
The Company does not intend to update these forward-looking statements, except as otherwise required by law.
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof.
Most of the Global Fortune 500, as well as many government agencies around the world, rely on CA to help manage their increasingly dynamic and complex environments.
Our solutions enable complete end-to-end automation, which minimizes downtime and accelerates the application delivery process.
•DevOps solutions help customers increase the innovation velocity for mainframe applications and teams.
We provide a unified view of the IBM z Systems performance across the infrastructure stack, including applications, middleware, networks, systems, storage and data.
We are working on opportunities in areas such as containers, data analytics, big data and open source, some of which may enhance or extend our current product portfolio and others of which may evolve into new product categories.
These models simplify decision-making and accelerate the value customers can derive from new solution investments.
We are focused on maintaining and expanding the strong relationships with our established customer base, and will proactively target growth with other potential customers that we do not currently serve.
We also focus on organically developing nascent technologies from companies we have acquired to endow them with the necessary interoperability, resilience and security to operate at scale in the large, heterogeneous IT environments utilized by our customers.
Excluding our Automic and Veracode acquisitions, total bookings decreased by a percentage in the high teens.
Excluding our Automic and Veracode acquisitions, renewal bookings decreased by a percentage in the mid-20s.
•Mainframe Solutions new product sales decreased by a percentage in the low single digits primarily due to a lower level of renewals as discussed above.
•Enterprise Solutions new product sales increased by a percentage in the mid-teens.
•We expect fiscal 2018 renewal bookings to decrease by a percentage in the high teens compared with fiscal 2017 primarily due to the large system integrator transaction that occurred in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 with an incremental contract value in excess of $475 million.
Price changes do not have a material effect on revenue in the period they become effective as a result of our ratable subscription model.
Our management looks within total bookings at renewal bookings, which we define as bookings attributable to the renewable value of a prior contract (i.e., the maintenance value and, in the case of non-perpetual licenses, the license value), and at total new product sales, which we define as sales of mainframe and enterprise solutions products and mainframe solutions capacity that are new or in addition to sales of products or mainframe solutions capacity previously contracted for by a customer.
Renewal bookings, as we report them, do not include new product or capacity sales or professional services arrangements and are reflected as subscription and maintenance bookings in the period (for which revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the contract).


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1.


