fls.txt
However, the absence of these words or similar expressions does not mean that a statement is not forward-looking.


item1.txt
In this quarterly report on Form 10-Q, Mesa Laboratories, Inc., a Colorado corporation, together with its subsidiaries is collectively referred to as “we,” “us,” “our,” the “Company” or “Mesa.” We are organized into four divisions across nine physical locations.
Biological, cleaning, and chemical indicators are used to assess the effectiveness of sterilization and disinfection processes in the hospital, dental, medical device, and pharmaceutical industries.
Our Instruments Division designs, manufactures, and markets quality control instruments and disposable products utilized in the healthcare, pharmaceutical, food and beverage, medical device, industrial hygiene, and environmental air sampling industries.
Our Cold Chain Monitoring Division designs, develops, and markets systems which are used to monitor various environmental parameters such as temperature, humidity, and differential pressure to ensure that critical storage and processing conditions are maintained in hospitals, pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers, blood banks, pharmacies, and laboratory environments.
Our Cold Chain Packaging Division provides packaging development consulting services and thermal packaging products such as coolers, boxes, insulation materials, and phase-change products to control temperature during the customer’s transport of their own products.
In August 2018, the SEC issued Release No.
The principal change to our financial reporting will be the inclusion of the annual disclosure requirement of changes in stockholders’ equity in Rule 3-04 of Regulation S-X to interim periods.
We will adopt this new rule beginning with our financial reporting for the quarter ended December 31, 2018.
Effective April 1, 2018, we adopted ASU 2014-09 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) and all related amendments (referred to collectively hereinafter as “ASU 606”) on a modified retrospective basis.
ASU 606 requires an entity to recognize revenue for the transfer of goods or services equal to the amount it expects to be entitled to receive for the goods and services.
The adoption did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated balance sheets, statements of income, or cash flows.
The primary impact of adoption was the enhancement of disclosures to provide additional clarity regarding how revenue is earned and recognized, and to show revenues at a more disaggregated level, included in Note 2.
Additionally, this ASU discusses required disclosures that an entity must make with regard to the TCJA.
This ASU is effective immediately as new information is available to adjust provisional amounts that were previously recorded.
We have adopted this standard and will continue to evaluate indicators that may give rise to a change in our tax provision as a result of the TCJA.


item2.txt
Item 2.
Management believes that these forward-looking statements are reasonable as and when made.
Our Instruments Division designs, manufactures, and markets quality control instruments and disposable products utilized in the healthcare, pharmaceutical, food and beverage, medical device, industrial hygiene, and environmental air sampling industries.
Our Cold Chain Packaging Division provides packaging development consulting services and thermal packaging products such as coolers, boxes, insulation materials, and phase-change products to control temperature during the customer’s transport of their own products.
Sterilization and disinfection control products and most products in our Cold Chain Packaging Division are disposable and are used on a routine basis, thus product sales are less sensitive to general economic conditions.
Overall revenues increased eight percent, while organic revenues increased three percent, for the three months ended September 30, 2018, resulting from organic increases of nine percent and three percent from the Instruments and SDC Divisions, respectively, partially offset by organic decreases of six percent and 11 percent for the Cold Chain Monitoring and Cold Chain Packaging Divisions, respectively.
Overall revenues increased 10 percent, while organic revenues increased three percent, for the six months ended September 30, 2018, resulting from organic increases of 23 percent, five percent, and two percent from the Cold Chain Packaging, Instruments, and Cold Chain Monitoring Divisions, respectively, partially offset by an organic decrease of one percent for the SDC Division.
Cold Chain Packaging revenues decreased 11 percent and increased 24 percent for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, as a result of changes in the order rate of the division’s largest customer.
During the three months ended June 30, 2018, the customer’s order rate was higher than usual, resulting in organic growth for the six months ended September 30, 2018.
Instruments gross margin percentage increased during the six months ended September 30, 2018 due to favorable product and service mix, as well as a $163 increase in inventory reserve recorded in the six months ended September 30, 2017 as a result of the decision to discontinue the sale of certain instruments products.
Cold Chain Monitoring gross profit margin percentage increased during the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 primarily due to efficiency gains as well as a one-time incremental inventory reserve charge of $216 recorded in the six months ended September 30, 2017.
Cold Chain Packaging gross profit margin decreased during the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 primarily as a result of increased sales volumes related to a large customer contract containing lower-than-standard contractual pricing.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Part II.


