ITEM 1.Financial Statements
See accompanying notes.
See accompanying notes.
See accompanying notes.
ANALOG DEVICES, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
See accompanying notes.
ANALOG DEVICES, INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE THREE AND NINE MONTHS ENDED AUGUST 4, 2018
Note 1 – Basis of Presentation
In the opinion of management, the information furnished in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements reflects all normal recurring adjustments that are necessary to fairly state the results for these interim periods and should be read in conjunction with Analog Devices, Inc.’s (the Company) Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 28, 2017 (fiscal 2017) and related notes.
The results of operations for the interim periods shown in this report are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending November 3, 2018 (fiscal 2018) or any future period.
On March 10, 2017 (Acquisition Date), the Company completed the acquisition of Linear Technology Corporation (Linear), a designer, manufacturer and marketer of high performance analog integrated circuits.
The acquisition of Linear is referred to as the Acquisition.
The condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q include the financial results of Linear prospectively from the Acquisition Date.
See Note 13, Acquisitions, of these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.
The Company has a 52-53 week fiscal year that ends on the Saturday closest to the last day in October.
Fiscal 2018 is a 53-week fiscal year and fiscal 2017 was a 52-week fiscal year.
The additional week in fiscal 2018 was included in the first quarter ended February 3, 2018.
Therefore, the first nine months of fiscal 2018 included an additional week of operations as compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2017.
Note 2 – Revenue Recognition
Revenue from product sales to customers is generally recognized when title passes, which is upon shipment in the U.S. and in certain foreign countries.
Revenue from product sales to customers in other foreign countries is recognized subsequent to product shipment.
Title for shipments to these other foreign countries ordinarily passes within a week of shipment.
Accordingly, the Company defers the revenue recognized relating to these other foreign countries until title has passed.
For multiple element arrangements, the Company allocates arrangement consideration among the elements based on the relative fair values of those elements as determined using vendor-specific objective evidence or third-party evidence.
The Company uses its best estimate of selling price to allocate arrangement consideration between the deliverables in cases where neither vendor-specific objective evidence nor third-party evidence is available.
A reserve for sales returns and allowances for customers is recorded based on historical experience or specific identification of an event necessitating a reserve.
Revenue from contracts with the United States government, government prime contractors and some commercial customers is generally recorded on a percentage of completion basis using either units delivered or costs incurred as the measurement basis for progress towards completion.
The output measure is used to measure results directly and is generally the best measure of progress toward completion in circumstances in which a reliable measure of output can be established.
Estimated revenue in excess of amounts billed is reported as unbilled receivables.
Contract accounting requires judgment in estimating costs and assumptions related to technical issues and delivery schedule.
Contract costs include material, subcontractor costs, labor and an allocation of indirect costs.
The estimation of costs at completion of a contract is subject to numerous variables involving contract costs and estimates as to the length of time to complete the contract.
Changes in contract performance, estimated gross margin, including the impact of final contract settlements, and estimated losses are recognized in the period in which the changes or losses are determined.
Product sales to certain international distributors are made under agreements that permit limited stock return privileges but not sales price rebates.
Revenue on these sales is recognized upon shipment at which time title passes.
The Company defers revenue and the related cost of sales on shipments to U.S. distributors and certain international distributors until the distributors resell the products to their customers.
As a result, the Company’s revenue fully reflects end customer purchases and is not impacted by distributor inventory levels.
Sales to certain of these distributors are made under agreements that allow such distributors to receive price-adjustment credits, as discussed below, and to return qualifying products for credit, as determined by the Company, in order to reduce the amounts of slow-moving, discontinued or obsolete product from their inventory.
These agreements limit such returns to a certain percentage of the value of the Company’s shipments to that distributor during the prior quarter.
In addition, such distributors are allowed to return unsold products if the Company terminates the relationship with the distributor.
Certain distributors are granted price-adjustment credits for sales to their customers when the distributor’s standard cost (i.e., the Company’s sales price to the distributor) does not provide the distributor with an appropriate margin on its sales to its customers.
As distributors negotiate selling prices with their customers, the final sales price agreed upon with the customer will be influenced by many factors, including the particular product being sold, the quantity ordered, the particular customer, the geographic location of the distributor and the competitive landscape.
As a result, the distributor may request and receive a price-adjustment credit from the Company to allow the distributor to earn an appropriate margin on the transaction.
Certain distributors are also granted price-adjustment credits in the event of a price decrease subsequent to the date the product was shipped and billed to the distributor.
Generally, the Company will provide a credit equal to the difference between the price paid by the distributor (less any prior credits on such products) and the new price for the product multiplied by the quantity of the specific product in the distributor’s inventory at the time of the price decrease.
Given the uncertainties associated with the levels of price-adjustment credits to be granted to certain distributors, the sales price to the distributor is not fixed or determinable until the distributor resells the products to their customers.
Therefore, the Company defers revenue recognition from sales to certain distributors until the distributors have sold the products to their customers.
Generally, title to the inventory transfers to the distributor at the time of shipment or delivery to the distributor, and payment from the distributor is due in accordance with the Company’s standard payment terms.
These payment terms are not contingent upon the distributors’ sale of the products to their customers.
Upon title transfer to distributors, inventory is reduced for the cost of goods shipped, the margin (sales less cost of sales) is recorded as “deferred income on shipments to distributors, net” and an account receivable is recorded.
Shipping costs are charged to cost of sales as incurred.
The deferred costs of sales to distributors have historically had very little risk of impairment due to the margins the Company earns on sales of its products and the relatively long life-cycle of the Company’s products.
Product returns from distributors that are ultimately scrapped have historically been immaterial.
In addition, price protection and price-adjustment credits granted to distributors historically have not exceeded the margins the Company earns on sales of its products.
The Company continuously monitors the level and nature of product returns and is in frequent contact with the distributors to ensure reserves are established for all known material issues.
As of August 4, 2018 and October 28, 2017, the Company had gross deferred revenue of $679.9 million and $589.5 million, respectively, and gross deferred cost of sales of $132.6 million and $115.5 million, respectively.
The Company generally offers a twelve-month warranty for its products.
The Company’s warranty policy provides for replacement of defective products.
Specific accruals are recorded for known product warranty issues.
Product warranty expenses during each of the three- and nine-month periods ended August 4, 2018 and July 29, 2017 were not material.
Note 3 – Stock-Based Compensation
During the three- and nine-month periods ended August 4, 2018, the total intrinsic value of options exercised (i.e., the difference between the market price at exercise and the price paid by the employee to exercise the options) was $29.3 million and $111.9 million, respectively, and the total amount of proceeds received by the Company from the exercise of these options was $22.8 million and $88.4 million, respectively.
During the three- and nine-month periods ended July 29, 2017, the total intrinsic value of options exercised (i.e., the difference between the market price at exercise and the price paid by the employee to exercise the options) was $19.9 million and $109.0 million, respectively, and the total amount of proceeds received by the Company from the exercise of these options was $18.0 million and $105.2 million, respectively.
Note 4 – Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)
The following table provides the changes in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (OCI) by component and the related tax effects during the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
The Company estimates $4.5 million, net of tax, of losses of forward foreign currency derivative instruments included in OCI will be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months.
There was no material ineffectiveness recorded within OCI related to designated forward foreign currency derivative instruments in the three- and nine-month periods ended August 4, 2018 and July 29, 2017.
As of August 4, 2018, the Company held 14 investment securities, 6 of which were in an unrealized loss position with immaterial gross unrealized losses and an aggregate fair value of $65.0 million.
As of October 28, 2017, the Company held 18 investment securities, 8 of which were in an unrealized loss position with immaterial gross unrealized losses and an aggregate fair value of $143.9 million.
These unrealized losses were primarily related to corporate obligations that earn lower interest rates than current market rates.
None of these investments have been in a loss position for more than twelve months.
As the Company does not intend to sell these investments and it is unlikely that the Company will be required to sell the investments before recovery of their amortized basis, which will be at maturity, the Company does not consider those investments to be other-than-temporarily impaired at August 4, 2018 and October 28, 2017.
Realized gains or losses on investments are determined based on the specific identification basis and are recognized in nonoperating expense (income).
There were no material net realized gains or losses from the sales of available-for-sale investments during any of the fiscal periods presented.
Note 5 – Earnings Per Share
Basic earnings per share is computed based only on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted earnings per share is computed using the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period, plus the dilutive effect of potential future issuances of common stock relating to stock option programs and other potentially dilutive securities using the treasury stock method.
In calculating diluted earnings per share, the dilutive effect of
stock options and restricted stock units is computed using the average market price for the respective period.
In addition, the assumed proceeds under the treasury stock method include the average unrecognized compensation expense of stock options that are in-the-money and restricted stock units.
This results in the “assumed” buyback of additional shares, thereby reducing the dilutive impact of in-the-money stock options.
Potential shares related to certain of the Company’s outstanding stock options and restricted stock units were excluded because they were anti-dilutive.
Those potential shares, determined based on the weighted average exercise prices during the respective periods, could be dilutive in the future.
In connection with the Acquisition, the Company granted restricted stock awards to replace outstanding restricted stock awards of Linear employees.
These restricted stock awards entitle recipients to voting and nonforfeitable dividend rights from the date of grant.
These unvested stock-based compensation awards are considered participating securities and the two-class method is used for purposes of calculating earnings per share.
Under the two-class method, a portion of net income is allocated to these participating securities and therefore is excluded from the calculation of earnings per share allocated to common stock, as shown in the table below.
The difference between the income allocated to participating securities under the basic and diluted two-class methods is not material.
Note 6 – Special Charges
The Company monitors global macroeconomic conditions on an ongoing basis and continues to assess opportunities for improved operational effectiveness and efficiency, as well as a better alignment of expenses with revenues.
As a result of these assessments, the Company has undertaken various restructuring actions over the past several years.
These actions are described below.
The following tables display the special charges taken for ongoing actions and a roll-forward from October 28, 2017 to August 4, 2018 of the employee separation and exit cost accruals established related to these actions.
 Closure of Manufacturing Facilities
During the second and third quarters of fiscal 2018, the Company recorded special charges totaling $2.2 million in the aggregate related to one-time termination benefits for employees included in this action.
These one-time termination benefits are being recognized over the future service period required for employees to earn these benefits.
Employees included in this action must continue to be employed by the Company until their employment is terminated in order to receive the severance benefits.
The accrual related to this action is included in other non-current liabilities in the condensed consolidated balance sheet as of August 4, 2018.
Reduction of Operating Costs Action
The accrual related to these actions is included in accrued liabilities in the condensed consolidated balance sheet as of August 4, 2018.
Early Retirement Offer Action
Note 7 – Segment Information
•The primary source of revenue for each operating segment is the sale of ICs.
•The ICs sold by each of the Company's operating segments are manufactured using similar semiconductor manufacturing processes and raw materials in either the Company’s own production facilities or by third-party wafer fabricators using proprietary processes.
•The Company sells its products to tens of thousands of customers worldwide.
Many of these customers use products spanning all operating segments in a wide range of applications.
•The ICs marketed by each of the Company's operating segments are sold globally through a direct sales force, third-party distributors, independent sales representatives and via the Company's website to the same types of customers.
All of the Company's operating segments share similar economic characteristics, including long-term gross margins.
The causes for variation in operating and financial performance are the same among the Company's operating segments and include factors such as (i) life cycle and price and cost fluctuations, (ii) number of competitors, (iii) product differentiation and (iv) size of market opportunity.
Additionally, each operating segment is subject to the overall cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry.
Lastly, the number and composition of employees and the amounts and types of tools and materials required for production of products are proportionately similar for each operating segment.
Revenue Trends by End Market
The following table summarizes revenue by end market for the three- and nine-month periods ended August 4, 2018 and July 29, 2017.
The categorization of revenue by end market is determined using a variety of data points including the technical characteristics of the product, the “sold to” customer information, the “ship to” customer information and the end customer product or application into which the Company’s product will be incorporated.
As data systems for capturing and tracking this data evolve and improve, the categorization of products by end market can vary over time.
When this occurs, the Company reclassifies revenue by end market for prior periods.
Such reclassifications typically do not materially change the sizing of, or the underlying trends of results within, each end market.
Revenue Trends by Geographic Region
In the three- and nine-month periods ended August 4, 2018 and July 29, 2017, the predominant country comprising “Rest of North and South America” is Canada; the predominant countries comprising “Europe” are Germany, the Netherlands and Sweden; and the predominant countries comprising “Rest of Asia” are South Korea and Taiwan.
Note 8 – Fair Value
The Company defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or be paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
The Company applies the following fair value hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs used to measure fair value into three levels and bases the categorization within the hierarchy upon the lowest level of input that is available and significant to the fair value measurement.
The hierarchy gives the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1 measurements) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3 measurements).
Level 1 — Level 1 inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the reporting entity has the ability to access at the measurement date.
Level 2 — Level 2 inputs are inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.
If the asset or liability has a specified (contractual) term, a Level 2 input must be observable for substantially the full term of the asset or liability.
Level 3 — Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability in which there is little, if any, market activity for the asset or liability at the measurement date.
The tables below, set forth by level, presents the Company’s financial assets and liabilities, excluding accrued interest components that are accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis as of August 4, 2018 and October 28, 2017.
The tables exclude cash on hand and assets and liabilities that are measured at historical cost or any basis other than fair value.
As of August 4, 2018 and October 28, 2017, the Company held $375.1 million and $296.2 million, respectively, of cash and held-to-maturity investments that were excluded from the tables below.
 In addition to the above, the Company has recognized contingent consideration payable at fair value (Level 3 measurement) of $7.6 million and $7.8 million as of August 4, 2018 and October 28, 2017, respectively.
The changes in fair value in those periods were not material.
Cash equivalents and short-term investments — These investments are adjusted to fair value based on quoted market prices or are determined using a yield curve model based on current market rates.
Deferred compensation plan investments — The fair value of these mutual fund, money market fund and equity investments are based on quoted market prices.
Forward foreign currency exchange contracts — The estimated fair value of forward foreign currency exchange contracts, which includes derivatives that are accounted for as cash flow hedges and those that are not designated as cash flow hedges, is based on the estimated amount the Company would receive if it sold these agreements at the reporting date taking into consideration current interest rates as well as the creditworthiness of the counterparty for assets and the Company’s creditworthiness for liabilities.
The fair value of these instruments is based upon valuation models using current market information such as strike price, spot rate, maturity date and volatility.
Interest rate derivatives — The fair value of the interest rate derivatives is estimated using a discounted cash flow analysis based on the contractual terms of the derivative.
Contingent consideration — The fair value of the contingent consideration was estimated utilizing the income approach and is based upon significant inputs not observable in the market.
The income approach is based on two steps.
The first step involves a projection of the cash flows that is based on the Company’s estimates of the timing and probability of achieving the defined milestones.
The second step involves converting the cash flows into a present value equivalent through discounting.
The discount rate reflects the Baa costs of debt plus the relevant risk associated with the asset and the time value of money.
Financial Instruments Not Recorded at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis
The table below presents the estimated fair value of certain financial instruments not recorded at fair value on a recurring basis.
The carrying amounts of the term loans approximate fair value.
The term loans are classified as Level 2 measurements according to the fair value hierarchy.
The fair values of the senior unsecured notes are obtained from broker prices and are classified as Level 1 measurements according to the fair value hierarchy.
Note 9 – Derivatives
Foreign Exchange Exposure Management — The Company enters into forward foreign currency exchange contracts to offset certain operational and balance sheet exposures from the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
Such exposures result from the portion of the Company’s operations, assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other
than the U.S. dollar, primarily the Euro; other significant exposures include the Philippine Peso, the Japanese Yen and the British Pound.
These foreign currency exchange contracts are entered into to support transactions made in the normal course of business, and accordingly, are not speculative in nature.
The contracts are for periods consistent with the terms of the underlying transactions, generally one year or less.
Hedges related to anticipated transactions are designated and documented at the inception of the respective hedges as cash flow hedges and are qualitatively evaluated for effectiveness quarterly.
Derivative instruments are employed to eliminate or minimize certain foreign currency exposures that can be confidently identified and quantified.
As the terms of the contract and the underlying transaction are matched at inception, forward contract effectiveness is calculated by comparing the change in fair value of the contract to the change in the forward value of the anticipated transaction, with the gain or loss on the derivative reported as a component of accumulated OCI in shareholders’ equity and reclassified into earnings in the same period during which the hedged transaction affects earnings.
Additionally, the Company enters into forward foreign currency contracts that economically hedge the gains and losses generated by the re-measurement of certain recorded assets and liabilities in a non-functional currency.
Changes in the fair value of these undesignated hedges are recognized in other (income) expense immediately as an offset to the changes in the fair value of the asset or liability being hedged.
As of August 4, 2018 and October 28, 2017, the total notional amount of these undesignated hedges was $63.1 million and $100.4 million, respectively.
The fair value of these hedging instruments in the Company’s condensed consolidated balance sheet was immaterial as of August 4, 2018 and was a liability of $1.8 million as of October 28, 2017.
Interest Rate Exposure Management — The Company's current and future debt may be subject to interest rate risk.
The Company utilizes interest rate derivatives to alter interest rate exposure in an attempt to reduce the effects of these changes.
The market risk associated with the Company’s derivative instruments results from currency exchange rate or interest rate movements that are expected to offset the market risk of the underlying transactions, assets and liabilities being hedged.
The counterparties to the agreements relating to the Company’s derivative instruments consist of a number of major international financial institutions with high credit ratings.
Based on the credit ratings of the Company’s counterparties as of August 4, 2018 and October 28, 2017, nonperformance is not perceived to be a significant risk.
Furthermore, none of the Company’s derivatives are subject to collateral or other security arrangements and none contain provisions that are dependent on the Company’s credit ratings from any credit rating agency.
While the contract or notional amounts of derivative financial instruments provide one measure of the volume of these transactions, they do not represent the amount of the Company’s exposure to credit risk.
The amounts potentially subject to credit risk (arising from the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts) are generally limited to the amounts, if any, by which the counterparties’ obligations under the contracts exceed the obligations of the Company to the counterparties.
As a result of the above considerations, the Company does not consider the risk of counterparty default to be significant.
The Company records the fair value of its derivative financial instruments in its condensed consolidated financial statements in other current assets, other assets or accrued liabilities, depending on their net position, regardless of the purpose or intent for holding the derivative contract.
Changes in the fair value of the derivative financial instruments are either recognized periodically in earnings or in shareholders’ equity as a component of OCI.
Changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges are recorded in OCI and reclassified into earnings when the underlying contract matures and, for interest rate exposure derivatives, over the term of the corresponding debt instrument.
Changes in the fair values of derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting are reported in earnings as they occur.
For information on the unrealized holding gains (losses) on derivatives included in and reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income into the condensed consolidated statement of income related to forward foreign currency exchange contracts, see Note 4, Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) of these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.
Note 10 – Goodwill and Intangible Assets
Goodwill
Intangible Assets
The Company reviews finite-lived intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of assets may not be recoverable.
If required, recoverability of these assets is determined by comparison of their carrying value to the estimated future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected to generate over their remaining estimated useful lives.
If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized in earnings equals the
amount by which the carrying value of the assets exceeds their estimated fair value determined by either a quoted market price, if any, or a value determined by utilizing a discounted cash flow technique.
Indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment on an annual basis on the first day of the fourth quarter (on or about August 4) or more frequently if indicators of impairment exist.
The impairment test involves a qualitative assessment on the indefinite-lived intangible assets to determine whether it is more likely-than not that the indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired.
If it is determined that the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than the carrying value, the Company would recognize into earnings the amount by which the carrying value of the assets exceeds the estimated fair value.
No impairment of intangible assets resulted from the impairment tests in any of the periods presented.
 Intangible assets, along with the related accumulated amortization, are removed from the table above at the end of the fiscal year they become fully amortized.
For the three- and nine-month periods ended August 4, 2018, amortization expense related to finite-lived intangible assets was $143.2 million and $428.2 million, respectively.
For the three- and nine-month periods ended July 29, 2017, amortization expense related to finite-lived intangible assets was $147.2 million and $256.0 million, respectively.
The remaining amortization expense will be recognized over an estimated weighted average life of approximately 4.7 years.
Note 11 – Debt
 On March 12, 2018, in an underwritten public offering, the Company issued $300.0 million aggregate principal amount of 2.850% senior unsecured notes due March 12, 2020 (the 2020 Notes) and $450.0 million aggregate principal amount of 2.950% senior unsecured notes due January 12, 2021 (the January 2021 Notes and, together with the 2020 Notes, the Notes).
Interest on the 2020 Notes is payable on March 12 and September 12 of each year, beginning on September 12, 2018.
Interest on the January 2021 Notes is payable on January 12 and July 12 of each year, beginning on July 12, 2018.
The net proceeds of the offering were $743.8 million, after discount and issuance costs, which were used to repay a portion of the Company’s outstanding 5-year unsecured term loan.
Debt discount and issuance costs will be amortized through interest expense over the term of the Notes.
At any time prior to the applicable maturity date of the Notes, the Company may, at its option, redeem some or all of the applicable series of Notes by paying a make-whole premium, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of
redemption.
The Notes are unsecured and rank equally in right of payment with all of the Company’s other unsecured senior indebtedness.
The Notes were issued pursuant to an indenture, as supplemented by a supplemental indenture, and the indenture and supplemental indenture contain certain covenants, events of default and other customary provisions.
As of August 4, 2018, the Company was in compliance with these covenants.
On November 10, 2017, the Company paid $300.0 million of principal on its 3-year unsecured term loan using cash on hand as of October 28, 2017.
This amount was not contractually due under the terms of the loan.
As such, this amount was classified as current in the condensed consolidated balance sheet as of October 28, 2017.
During the nine-month period ended August 4, 2018, the Company made additional principal payments of $1.0 billion on its 3-year unsecured term loan and $750.0 million on its 5-year unsecured term loan.
These amounts were not contractually due under the terms of the loans.
As of August 4, 2018, $22.5 million of principal on the 3-year unsecured term loan was classified as current debt as the Company intends to utilize cash on hand as of August 4, 2018 to repay this amount of debt within the next twelve months.
Note 12 – Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out method) or market.
The valuation of inventory requires the Company to estimate obsolete or excess inventory as well as inventory that is not of saleable quality.
The Company employs a variety of methodologies to determine the net realizable value of its inventory.
While a portion of the calculation to record inventory at its net realizable value is based on the age of the inventory and lower of cost or market calculations, a key factor in estimating obsolete or excess inventory requires the Company to estimate the future demand for its products.
If actual demand is less than the Company’s estimates, impairment charges, which are recorded to cost of sales, may need to be recorded in future periods.
Inventory in excess of saleable amounts is not valued, and the remaining inventory is valued at the lower of cost or market.
Note 13 – Acquisitions
Linear Technology Corporation
On March 10, 2017 (Acquisition Date), the Company completed its acquisition of all of the voting interests of Linear, an independent manufacturer of high performance analog integrated circuits.
The total consideration paid to acquire Linear, which consisted of cash, common stock of the Company and share-based compensation awards, was approximately $15.8 billion.
The Company believes that the combination creates the premier analog technology company with the industry’s most comprehensive suite of high-performance analog offerings.
The results of operations of Linear from the Acquisition Date are included in the Company’s condensed consolidated statements of income, condensed consolidated balance sheet, and condensed consolidated statement of cash flows for the three- and nine-month periods ended August 4, 2018 and July 29, 2017.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company recorded acquisition accounting adjustments of $1.6 million to goodwill comprised of $4.7 million to intangible assets, $2.7 million to accounts receivable, $2.4 million to assumed liabilities and $1.1 million to deferred tax liabilities.
The Acquisition accounting was completed during the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
The following unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information combines the unaudited results of the Company for the three- and nine-month periods ended July 29, 2017 and the unaudited results of Linear for the three- and nine-month periods ended July 29, 2017 and assumes that the Acquisition, which closed on March 10, 2017, was completed on November 1, 2015 (the first day of fiscal 2016).
The pro forma consolidated financial information has been calculated after applying the Company’s accounting policies and includes adjustments for amortization expense of acquired intangible assets, transaction-related costs, a step-up in the value of acquired inventory and property, plant and equipment, compensation expense for ongoing share-based compensation arrangements replaced and interest expense for the debt incurred to fund the Acquisition, together with the consequential tax effects.
These pro forma results have been prepared for comparative purposes only and do not purport to be indicative of the operating results of the Company that would have been achieved had the Acquisition actually taken place on November 1, 2015.
In addition, these results are not intended to be a projection of future results and do not reflect events that may occur after the Acquisition, including but not limited to revenue enhancements, cost savings or operating synergies that the combined Company may achieve as a result of the Acquisition.
Other Acquisitions
The Company has not provided pro forma results of operations for any other acquisitions completed in the three- and nine-month periods ended August 4, 2018 or July 29, 2017 herein as they were not material to the Company on either an individual or an aggregate basis.
The Company included the results of operations of each acquisition in its consolidated statement of income from the date of each acquisition.
Note 14 – Income Taxes
The Company has provided for potential tax liabilities due in the various jurisdictions in which the Company operates.
Judgment is required in determining the worldwide income tax provision.
In the ordinary course of global business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain.
Some of these uncertainties arise as a consequence of cost reimbursement arrangements among related entities.
Although the Company believes its estimates are reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different from that which is reflected in the historical income tax provisions and accruals.
Such differences could have a material impact on the Company’s income tax provision and operating results in the period in which such determination is made.
The Company’s effective tax rate reflects the applicable tax rate in effect in the various tax jurisdictions around the world where the Company's income is earned.
The Company's effective tax rate is generally lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate, primarily due to lower statutory tax rates applicable to the Company's operations in jurisdictions in which the Company earns a portion of its income.
The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (Tax Legislation), enacted on December 22, 2017, contains significant changes to U.S. tax law, including lowering the U.S. corporate income tax rate to 21.0%, implementing a territorial tax system, and imposing a one-time tax on deemed repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries.
As of August 4, 2018, the Company has not completed its accounting for the tax effects of the enactment of the Tax Legislation.
However, as described below, the Company has made reasonable estimates of the effects on its existing deferred tax balances and the one-time transition tax in the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
The Tax Legislation reduced the U.S. statutory tax rate from 35.0% to 21.0%, effective January 1, 2018, which results in a blended statutory income tax rate for the Company of 23.4% for fiscal 2018.
For the fiscal year ending November 2, 2019 (fiscal 2019), the Company’s U.S. statutory income tax rate will be 21.0%.
In the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company recorded a $639.7 million discrete tax benefit for the re-measurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the rates at which they are expected to reverse in the future, which is generally 21.0%.
There was no material change to this provisional estimate in the third quarter of fiscal year 2018.
This provisional benefit is subject to revision based on further analysis and interpretation of the Tax Legislation and to the extent that future results differ from currently available projections.
The Tax Legislation also implements a territorial tax system.
As part of transitioning to the territorial tax system, the Tax Legislation includes a one-time transition tax based on our total post-1986 undistributed foreign earnings and profits that were previously deferred from U.S. income tax.
In the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company recorded a provisional tax expense amount for the one-time transition tax of $687.1 million, which is comprised of the $751.1 million transition tax liability less a deferred tax liability of $64.0 million that was recorded in prior years.
There was no material change to this provisional estimate in the third quarter of fiscal year 2018.
This provisional estimate may be impacted by a number of additional considerations, including, but not limited to, the issuance of final tax regulations, the Company's ongoing analysis of the Tax Legislation, the Company's earnings and profits subject to the one-time transition tax, and estimated earnings and profits and foreign tax credit pools for fiscal 2018 as well as the amount of earnings and profits held in cash or other specified assets.
The Company intends to elect to pay this transition tax starting in fiscal 2019 without incurring interest over a period of eight years.
As a result, $60.1 million of the transition tax is classified as current taxes payable and $691.0 million is classified as non-current taxes payable.
For the nine months ended August 4, 2018, the Company recorded a total of $24.2 million in discrete benefits for excess tax benefits from share-based payments, pursuant to ASU 2016-09, which became effective for fiscal 2018.
This consists of a $6.0 million discrete benefit arising in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 in addition to the $10.0 million and $8.2 million discrete benefits arising in the first quarter and second quarter of fiscal 2018, respectively.
The Company historically asserted its intent to reinvest substantially all of its foreign earnings in foreign operations indefinitely.
The Company is still in the process of analyzing the impact that the Tax Legislation has on its indefinite reinvestment assertion.
Accordingly, no additional income taxes or withholding taxes have been provided for any remaining undistributed foreign earnings not subject to the transition tax, or any outside basis difference inherent in these entities.
On December 22, 2017, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued guidance under Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
118, Income Tax Accounting Implications of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (SAB 118) directing taxpayers to consider the impact of the Tax Legislation as “provisional” when it does not have the necessary information available, prepared or analyzed (including computations) in reasonable detail to complete its accounting for the change in tax law.
Also in March 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-05, Amendments to SEC Paragraphs Pursuant to SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
118, to add various SEC paragraphs pursuant to the issuance of SAB 118, to Accounting Standards Codification topic 740, Income Taxes (ASC 740).
In accordance with SAB 118, the amount reported for the tax benefit from re-measuring the Company’s net deferred tax liabilities to the lower 21.0% statutory rate and the amount reported for the additional U.S. income tax resulting from the one-time mandatory deemed repatriation including the ongoing evaluation of the impact on the Company’s indefinite reinvestment assertions regarding undistributed earnings and profits, represents the Company's best estimate as it continues to accumulate and process data to finalize its underlying calculations and to review further guidance that regulators are expected to issue.
The Company is also analyzing other provisions of the Tax Legislation to determine if they will impact the Company's effective rate for fiscal 2018 or in the future.
The Company will continue to refine its adjustments through the permissible measurement period, which is not to extend beyond one year after the enactment date.
Many provisions in the Tax Legislation may have U.S. state and local income tax implications.
While some states automatically adopt federal tax law changes, others may conform their laws on a specific date or may choose to decouple from the new federal tax law provisions.
As such, the Company has not sufficiently analyzed the impact of the new Tax Legislation on its state and local income taxes, and therefore did not record a provisional amount, but instead continues to apply ASC 740, based on the provisions of the tax law that were in effect immediately prior to the Tax Legislation being enacted.
The Company expects to complete its analysis of the effects on state and local income taxes on or before December 22, 2018 as allowed by SAB 118.
All of the Company’s U.S. federal tax returns prior to fiscal year 2014 are no longer subject to examination.
All of the Company’s Ireland tax returns prior to fiscal year 2012 are no longer subject to examination.
The Company has numerous audits ongoing at any time throughout the world, including an Internal Revenue Service income tax audit for Linear’s pre-acquisition fiscal year 2015, various U.S. state and local tax audits, and transfer pricing audits in Spain, the Philippines and Ireland.
As the statute of limitations for Ireland's transfer pricing audit expires in the quarter ended November 3, 2018, the Company expects to receive formal correspondence from Ireland within the next several weeks.
Although the Company believes its estimates of income taxes payable are reasonable, no assurance can be given that the Company will prevail in the matters raised or that the outcome of one or all of these matters will not be different than that which is reflected in the historical income tax provisions and accruals.
The Company believes such differences would not have a material impact on the Company’s financial condition.
Unrealized Tax Benefits
The following table summarizes the changes in the total amounts of unrealized tax benefits for the nine-month period ended August 4, 2018.
Note 15 – New Accounting Pronouncements
Standards Implemented
Derivatives and Hedging
Stock Compensation
Equity Method Investments
Inventory
In July 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-11, Inventory (Topic 330) - Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory (ASU 2015-11), which simplifies the subsequent measurement of inventories by replacing the lower of cost or market test with a
lower of cost and net realizable value test.
The guidance applies only to inventories for which cost is determined by methods other than last-in first-out and the retail inventory method.
The guidance in ASU 2015-11 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016 and early adoption is permitted.
The Company adopted ASU 2015-11 in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
The adoption of ASU 2015-11 in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 did not impact the Company's financial position or results of operations.
Standards to Be Implemented
Comprehensive Income
Business Combinations
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-01, Business Combinations (Topic 805) Clarifying the Definition of a Business (ASU 2017-01).
ASU 2017-01 clarifies the definition of a business with the objective of adding guidance to assist entities with evaluating whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions (or disposals) of assets or businesses.
The definition of a business affects many areas of accounting including acquisitions, disposals, goodwill, and consolidation.
The guidance is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those periods.
The Company will adopt ASU 2017-01 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
The impact of the adoption on the Company's financial position and results of operations will be dependent upon any future acquisitions or disposals.
Income Taxes
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740) (ASU 2016-16).
ASU 2016-16 will require an entity to recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset, other than inventory, when the transfer occurs.
ASU 2016-16 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
Early adoption is permitted as of the beginning of an annual reporting period for which financial statements have not been issued or made available for issuance.
The Company will adopt ASU 2016-16 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
The Company is currently evaluating the adoption date and the impact, if any, adoption will have on its financial position and results of operations.
Statement of Cash Flows
Leases
 ASU 2016-02, ASU 2018-01 and ASU 2018-11 are effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
ASU 2016-02 and ASU 2018-01 are effective for the
Company in the first quarter of fiscal 2020.
The Company is currently evaluating the adoption date and the impact adoption will have on its financial position and results of operations.
Financial Instruments
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326), Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments (ASU 2016-13).
ASU 2016-13 requires a financial asset (or group of financial assets) measured at amortized cost basis to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected.
The allowance for credit losses is a valuation account that is deducted from the amortized cost basis of the financial asset(s) to present the net carrying value at the amount expected to be collected on the financial asset.
ASU 2016-13 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, and for interim periods within those fiscal years.
ASU 2016-13 is effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal 2020.
The Company is currently evaluating the adoption date and the impact, if any, adoption will have on its financial position and results of operations.
Stock Compensation
Revenue Recognition
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASU 2014-09), which supersedes nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP.
The core principle of ASU 2014-09 is that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
Additionally, the guidance requires improved disclosures to help users of financial statements better understand the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers.
The FASB has issued several amendments and updates to the new revenue standard, including guidance related to when an entity should recognize revenue gross as a principal or net as an agent and how an entity should identify performance obligations.
As amended, ASU 2014-09 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2017, which is the Company's first quarter of fiscal 2019.
The Company has developed a project plan for the implementation of the guidance, including a review of all revenue streams to identify any differences in the timing, measurement or presentation of revenue recognition.
The Company has reviewed its revenue streams, including those from the Acquisition, and is nearing completion in assessing all potential impacts of the standard on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures, including any impacts from recently issued
amendments, and retrospectively adjusting financial information for prior fiscal years.
While the Company is still in the process of completing its evaluation of the standard, it currently believes the most significant impact will be related to the timing of recognition of sales to certain distributors.
As described in Note 2, Revenue Recognition, of these Notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements, the Company currently defers revenue and the related cost of sales on shipments to certain distributors until the distributors resell the products to their customers.
Upon adoption of ASU 2014-09, the Company will no longer be permitted to defer revenue until sale by the distributor to the end customer, but rather, will be required to estimate the effects of returns and allowances provided to distributors and record revenue at the time of sale to the distributor.
The Company will adopt ASU 2014-09, using the full retrospective method, upon its effective date for the Company which is the Company’s first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Note 16 – Subsequent Events
On August 21, 2018, the Board of Directors of the Company declared a cash dividend of $0.48 per outstanding share of common stock.
The dividend will be paid on September 12, 2018 to all shareholders of record at the close of business on August 31, 2018.
Also on August 21, 2018, the Company reinstated its share repurchase program, and its Board of Directors approved an increase to the current authorization for the stock repurchase program by an additional $2.0 billion to $8.2 billion in the aggregate.
Under the program, the Company may repurchase outstanding shares of common stock from time to time in the open market or through privately negotiated transactions.
ITEM 1A.Risk Factors
Set forth below and elsewhere in this report and in other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) are descriptions of certain risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also adversely affect our business.
The description below includes any material changes to and supersedes the description of the risk factors affecting our business previously discussed in "Risk Factors” set forth in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 28, 2017.
Our acquisition of Linear Technology Corporation (Linear) and the integration of its business, operations and employees with our own may be more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected, and the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the acquisition may not be fully realized, which could adversely impact our business operations, financial condition and results of operations.
•the inability to successfully integrate Linear's business into our own in a manner that permits the combined company to achieve the cost savings and operating synergies anticipated to result from the Acquisition, which could result in the anticipated benefits of the Acquisition not being realized partly or wholly in the time frame currently anticipated or at all;
•lost sales and customers as a result of certain customers of either or both of the two companies deciding not to do business with the combined company, or deciding to decrease their amount of business in order to reduce their reliance on a single company;
•loss of key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers;
•integrating personnel, IT systems and corporate, finance and administrative infrastructures of the two companies while maintaining focus on providing consistent, high quality products and services;
•coordinating and integrating our internal operations, compensation and benefits programs, policies and procedures, and corporate structures;
•potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen or increased costs and expenses;
•the possibility of faulty assumptions underlying expectations regarding potential synergies and the integration process;
•incurring significant Acquisition-related costs and expenses associated with combining our operations;
•performance shortfalls at one or both of the two companies as a result of the diversion of management’s attention caused by integrating the companies’ operations; and
•servicing the substantial debt that we have incurred in connection with the Acquisition.
Any of these factors could result in the combined company failing to realize the anticipated benefits of the Acquisition, on the expected timeline or at all, and could adversely impact our business operations, financial condition and results of operations.
Disruptions in global credit and financial markets could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.
Continuing uncertainty regarding the stability of global credit and financial markets may lead consumers and businesses to postpone spending, which may cause our customers to cancel, decrease or delay their existing and future orders for our products and make it difficult for us to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities.
Significant disruption to global credit and financial markets may also adversely affect our ability to access external financing sources on acceptable terms.
Financial difficulties experienced by our customers could result in nonpayment or payment delays for previously purchased products, thereby increasing our credit risk exposure.
Uncertainty regarding the future stability of the global credit and financial markets could cause the value of the currency in the affected markets to deteriorate, thus reducing the purchasing power of those customers.
In addition, financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers or distributors could result in product delays, increased accounts receivable defaults and inventory challenges.
If economic conditions deteriorate, we may record additional charges relating to restructuring costs or the impairment of assets and our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.
Our future revenue, gross margins, operating results, net income and earnings per share are difficult to predict and may materially fluctuate.
•the effects of adverse economic conditions in the markets in which we sell our products;
•the timing, delay, reduction or cancellation of significant customer orders and our ability to manage inventory;
•fluctuations in customer order patterns and seasonality;
•our ability to effectively manage our cost structure in both the short term and over a longer duration;
•changes in geographic, product or customer mix;
•changes in our effective tax rates or new or revised tax legislation in the United States, Ireland or worldwide;
•the effects of issued, threatened or retaliatory government sanctions, trade barriers or economic restrictions, changes in law, regulations or other restrictions, including executive orders, changes in import and export regulations or changes in duties and tariffs, particularly with respect to China;
•the timing of new product announcements or introductions by us, our customers or our competitors and the market acceptance of such products;
•pricing decisions and competitive pricing pressures;
•fluctuations in manufacturing yields, adequate availability of wafers and other raw materials, and manufacturing, assembly and test capacity;
•a decline in infrastructure spending by foreign governments, including China;
•a decline in the U.S. government defense budget, changes in spending or budgetary priorities, a prolonged U.S. government shutdown or delays in contract awards;
•any significant decline in our backlog;
•our ability to recruit, hire, retain and motivate adequate numbers of engineers and other qualified employees to meet the demands of our customers;
•our ability to generate new design opportunities and win competitive bid selection processes;
•the increasing costs of providing employee benefits worldwide, including health insurance, retirement plan and pension plan contributions and retirement benefits;
•our ability to utilize our manufacturing facilities at efficient levels;
•the difficulties inherent in forecasting future operating expense levels, including with respect to costs associated with labor, utilities, transportation and raw materials;
•the costs related to compliance with increasing worldwide government, environmental and social responsibility regulations;
•new accounting pronouncements or changes in existing accounting standards and practices; and
•the effects of public health emergencies, natural disasters, widespread travel disruptions, security risks, terrorist activities, international conflicts and other events beyond our control.
In addition, the semiconductor market has historically been cyclical and subject to significant economic upturns and downturns.
Our business and certain of the end markets we serve are also subject to rapid technological changes and material fluctuations in demand based on end-user preferences.
There can be no assurance (i) that products stocked in our inventory will not be rendered obsolete before we ship them, or (ii) that we will be able to design, develop and produce products in a
timely fashion to accommodate changing customer demand.
As a result of these and other factors, we may experience material fluctuations in future revenue, gross margins, operating results, net income and earnings per share on a quarterly or annual basis.
Our historical financial performance and results of operations should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance or results.
In addition, if our revenue, gross margins, operating results, net income and earnings per share results or expectations do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the market price of our common stock may decline.
Increases in our effective tax rate and exposure to additional tax liabilities may adversely impact our results of operations.
In addition, future tax reform and certain aspects of the Tax Legislation, which become effective in the fiscal year ending November 2, 2019, may result in changes to long-standing tax principles, which could adversely affect our effective tax rate or result in higher cash tax liabilities.
On October 5, 2015, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, an international association of thirty-five countries, including the United States, Ireland and UK, released the final reports from its Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) Action Plans.
The BEPS recommendations covered a number of issues, including country-by-country reporting, permanent establishment rules, transfer pricing rules and tax treaties.
Additionally, as a result of the Tax Legislation described above, we recorded provisional estimates of the one-time adjustments for the re-measurement of deferred tax assets (liabilities) and the deemed repatriation tax on unremitted foreign earnings and profits.
The final impact of the new tax law may differ from these estimates, possibly materially, due to, among other things, changes in interpretations and assumptions made, additional guidance that may be issued, unexpected negative changes in business and market conditions that could reduce certain tax benefits, and actions we take as a result of this new tax law.
Long-term contracts are not typical for us, and incorrect forecasts or reductions, cancellations or delays in orders for our products could adversely affect our operating results.
We typically do not have long-term sales contracts with our customers.
In certain markets where end-user demand may be particularly volatile and difficult to predict, some customers place orders that require us to manufacture product and have it available for shipment, even though the customer is unwilling to make a binding commitment to purchase all, or even any, of the product.
In other instances, we manufacture product based on forecasts of customer demands, which may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly or annual basis.
Additionally, our U.S. government contracts and subcontracts may be funded in increments over a number of government budget periods and typically can be terminated by the government for its convenience.
As a result, we may incur inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated sales, and we are subject to the risk of lower than expected orders or cancellations of orders, leading to a sharp reduction of sales and backlog.
Further, orders or forecasts for products that meet the customer’s unique requirements and that are canceled or unrealized orders would, in addition, result in an inventory of unsaleable products, causing potential inventory write-offs, and we may be unable to recover all of our costs incurred or committed.
As a result of lengthy manufacturing cycles for certain of the products that are subject to these uncertainties, the amount of unsaleable product could be substantial.
Incorrect forecasts, or reductions, cancellations or delays in orders for our products could adversely affect our operating results.
Our future success depends upon our ability to execute our business strategy, continue to innovate, improve our existing products, design, develop, produce and market new products, and identify and enter new markets.
Our future success significantly depends on our continued ability to execute our business strategy, continue to improve our existing products and design, develop, produce and market innovative new products.
Product design, development, innovation and enhancement is often a complex, time-consuming and costly process involving significant investment in
We may not be able to compete successfully in markets within the semiconductor industry in the future.
We rely on third-party suppliers, subcontractors and manufacturers for some industry-standard wafers, manufacturing processes, assembly and test services, and transportation, and we generally cannot control their availability or conditions of supply.
We rely, and plan to continue to rely, on third-party suppliers, assembly and test subcontractors, freight carriers and wafer fabricators (collectively, suppliers) to supply most of our products that can be manufactured using industry-standard processes.
This reliance involves several risks, including reduced control over availability, capacity utilization, delivery schedules, manufacturing yields, and costs.
We currently source approximately half of our wafer requirements annually from third-party wafer fabrication foundries, primarily Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company.
In addition, these suppliers often provide manufacturing services to our competitors and therefore periods of increased industry demand may result in capacity constraints.
In certain instances, the third-party supplier is the sole source of highly specialized processing services.
If our suppliers are unable or unwilling to manufacture and deliver components to us on the time schedule and of the quality or quantity that we require or provide us with required manufacturing processes, we may be forced to seek to engage additional or replacement suppliers, which could result in additional expenses and delays in product development or shipment of product to our customers.
If additional or replacement suppliers or manufacturing processes are not available, we may also experience delays in product development or shipment which could, in turn, result in the temporary or permanent loss of customers.
A prolonged disruption of our internal manufacturing operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
In addition to leveraging an outsourcing model for manufacturing operations, we also rely on our internal manufacturing operations located in the United States, Ireland, the Philippines, Singapore and Malaysia.
A prolonged disruption at, or inability to utilize, one or more of our manufacturing facilities, loss of raw materials or damage to our manufacturing equipment for any reason, including due to natural or man-made disasters, civil unrest or other events outside of our control, such as widespread outbreaks of illness or the failure to maintain our labor force at one or more of these facilities, may disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in us being unable to timely satisfy customer demand.
As a result, we could forgo revenue opportunities, potentially lose market share and damage our customer relationships, all of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow, we may not be able to service our debt obligations, including making payments on our outstanding term loans and senior unsecured notes.
•seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets;
•refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness;
•borrow under our revolving credit facility;
•divert funds that would otherwise be invested in our operations;
•repatriate earnings as dividends from foreign locations, attracting foreign withholding and U.S. income taxes;
•sell selected assets; or
•reduce or delay planned capital expenditures or operating expenditures.
Such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt, which could negatively impact our financial results.
In addition, we may not be able to obtain any such financing, refinancing or complete a sale of assets on economically favorable terms.
In the case of financing or refinancing, favorable interest rates will depend on the health of the debt capital markets.
Our significant existing indebtedness could also have the effect, among other things, of reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions, reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes or creating competitive disadvantages relative to other companies with lower debt levels.
The markets for semiconductor products are cyclical, and increased production may lead to overcapacity and lower prices, and conversely, we may not be able to satisfy unexpected demand for our products.
The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry has resulted in periods when demand for our products has increased or decreased rapidly.
The demand for our products is subject to the strength of our four major end markets of Industrial, Communications, Automotive and Consumer.
If we expand our operations and workforce too rapidly or procure excessive resources in anticipation of increased demand for our products, and that demand does not materialize at the pace at which we expect, or declines, or if we overbuild inventory in a period of decreased demand, our operating results may be adversely affected as a result of increased operating expenses, reduced margins, underutilization of capacity or asset impairment charges.
These capacity expansions by us and other semiconductor manufacturers could also lead to overcapacity in our target markets which could lead to price erosion that would adversely impact our operating results.
Conversely, during periods of rapid increases in demand, our available capacity may not be sufficient to satisfy the demand.
In addition, we may not be able to expand our workforce and operations in a sufficiently timely manner, procure adequate resources and raw materials, locate suitable third-party suppliers, or respond effectively to changes in demand for our existing products or to demand for new products requested by our customers, and our current or future business could be materially and adversely affected.
Our semiconductor products are complex and we may be subject to product warranty and indemnity claims, which could result in significant costs and damage to our reputation and adversely affect customer relationships, the market acceptance of our products and our operating results.
Semiconductor products are highly complex and may contain defects when they are first introduced or as new versions are developed.
Failures in our products and services or in the products of customers could result in damage to our reputation for
reliability and increase our legal or financial exposure to third parties.
Certain of our products and services could also contain security vulnerabilities, defects, bugs and errors, which could also result in significant data losses, security breaches and theft of intellectual property.
We generally warrant our products to our customers for one year from the date title passes from us.
We invest significant resources in the testing of our products; however, if any of our products contain defects, we may be required to incur additional development and remediation costs pursuant to warranty and indemnification provisions in our customer contracts and purchase orders.
These problems may divert our technical and other resources from other product development efforts and could result in claims against us by our customers or others, including liability for costs and expenses associated with product recalls, which may adversely impact our operating results.
We may also be subject to customer indemnity claims.
Our customers have on occasion been sued, and may be sued in the future, by third parties alleging infringement of intellectual property rights, or damages resulting from use of our products.
Those customers may seek indemnification from us under the terms and conditions of our sales contracts with them.
In certain cases, our potential indemnification liability may be significant.
If any of our products contain defects, or have reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation may be damaged, which could make it more difficult for us to sell our products to customers and could also adversely affect our operating results.
The fabrication of integrated circuits is highly complex and precise, and our manufacturing processes utilize a substantial amount of technology.
Minute impurities, contaminants in the manufacturing environment, difficulties in the fabrication process, defects in the masks used in the wafer manufacturing process, manufacturing equipment failures, wafer breakage or other factors can cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be rejected or numerous dice on each wafer to be nonfunctional.
While we have significant expertise in semiconductor manufacturing, it is possible that some processes could become unstable.
This instability could result in manufacturing delays and product shortages, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.
We are occasionally involved in litigation, including claims regarding intellectual property rights, which could be costly to litigate and could require us to redesign products or pay significant royalties.
The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent claims and litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights.
Other companies or individuals have obtained patents covering a variety of semiconductor designs and processes, and we might be required to obtain licenses under some of these patents or be precluded from making and selling infringing products, if those patents are found to be valid and infringed by us.
In the event a third party makes a valid intellectual property claim against us and a license is not available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, we could be forced either to redesign or to stop production of products incorporating that intellectual property, and our operating results could be materially and adversely affected.
Litigation may be necessary to enforce our patents or other of our intellectual property rights or to defend us against claims of infringement, and this litigation could be costly and divert the attention of our key personnel.
We could also be subject to litigation or arbitration disputes arising under our contractual obligations, as well as customer indemnity, warranty or product liability claims that could lead to significant costs and expenses as we defend those claims or pay damage awards.
There can be no assurance that we are adequately insured to protect against all claims and potential liabilities, and we may elect to self-insure with respect to certain matters.
An adverse outcome in litigation or arbitration could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or on our operating results or cash flows in the period in which the dispute is resolved.
We may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary intellectual property rights, which may limit our ability to compete effectively.
Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property.
We primarily rely on patent, mask work, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies and processes.
Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, it is possible that competitors or other unauthorized third parties may obtain, copy, reverse engineer, use or disclose our technologies, products and processes.
Moreover, the laws of foreign countries in which we design, manufacture, market and sell our products may afford little or no effective protection of our proprietary intellectual property.
There can be no assurance that the claims allowed in our issued patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology.
In addition, any of our existing or future patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented.
As such, any rights granted under these patents may not provide us with adequate protection.
We may not be able to obtain foreign patents or pending applications corresponding to our U.S. patents and applications.
Even if patents are granted, enforcement may not be available or achieved under the circumstances.
If our patents and mask works do not adequately protect our technology, our competitors may be able to offer products similar to ours.
Our competitors may also be able to develop similar technology independently or design around our patents.
We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and strategic partners.
We also try to control access to and distribution of our technologies, documentation and other proprietary information.
Despite these efforts, internal or external parties may attempt to copy, disclose, obtain or use our products or technology without our authorization.
Also, former employees may seek employment with our business partners, customers or competitors, and there can be no
assurance that the confidential nature of our proprietary information will be maintained in the course of such future employment.
A significant disruption in, or breach in security of, our information technology systems or certain of our products could materially and adversely affect our business or reputation.
We rely on information technology systems throughout our company to keep financial records and customer data, process orders, manage inventory, coordinate shipments to customers, maintain confidential and proprietary information, assist in semiconductor engineering and other technical activities and operate other critical functions such as Internet connectivity, network communications and email.
Our information technology systems may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to power outages, hardware failures, telecommunication failures, user errors, catastrophes or other unforeseen events.
We also utilize external cloud providers for certain infrastructure activities.
If we were to experience a prolonged disruption in the information technology systems that involve our internal communications or our interactions with customers or suppliers, it could result in the loss of sales and customers and significant incremental costs, which could adversely affect our business.
We may also be subject to security breaches of our information technology systems and certain of our products caused by viruses, illegal break-ins or hacking, sabotage, or acts of vandalism by third parties or our employees or contractors.
Our security measures or those of our third party service providers may not detect or prevent security breaches, defects, bugs or errors.
In addition, we provide our confidential and proprietary information to our strategic partners in certain cases where doing so is necessary to conduct our business.
While we employ confidentiality agreements to protect such information, nonetheless those third parties may also be subject to security breaches or otherwise compromise the protection of such information.
Security breaches of our information technology systems or those of our partners could result in the misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure of confidential and proprietary information belonging to us or to our employees, partners, customers or suppliers, which could result in our suffering significant financial or reputational damage.
If we are unable to recruit or retain our key personnel, our ability to execute our business strategy will be adversely affected.
Our continued success depends to a significant extent upon the recruitment, retention and effective succession of our executive officers and key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers.
The competition for these employees is intense.
The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.
The inability to attract, hire and retain key employees with critical technical skills to achieve our strategy, including as a result of changes to immigration policies, could also have a material adverse effect on our business.
In addition, there could be a material adverse effect on our business should the turnover rates for engineers and other key personnel increase significantly or if we are unable to continue to attract, hire and retain qualified personnel.
We do not maintain any key person life insurance policy on any of our officers or employees.
To remain competitive, we may need to invest in or acquire other companies, purchase or license technology from third parties, or enter into other strategic transactions in order to introduce new products or enhance our existing products.
An element of our business strategy involves expansion through the acquisitions of businesses, assets, products or technologies that allow us to complement our existing product offerings, diversify our product portfolio, expand our market coverage, increase our engineering workforce, expand our technical skill sets or enhance our technological capabilities.
We may not be able to find businesses that have the technology or resources we need and, if we find such businesses, we may not be able to invest in, purchase or license the technology or resources on commercially favorable terms or at all.
Acquisitions, investments and technology licenses are difficult to identify and complete for a number of reasons, including the cost of potential transactions, competition among prospective buyers and licensees, the need for regulatory approvals, and difficulties related to integration efforts.
In addition, investments in private companies are subject to a risk of a partial or total loss of our investment.
Both in the U.S. and abroad, governmental regulation of acquisitions, including antitrust reviews and approvals, has become more complex, increasing the costs and risks of undertaking and consummating significant acquisitions.
In order to finance a potential transaction, we may need to raise additional funds by issuing securities or borrowing money.
We may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, and the sale of our stock may result in the dilution of our existing shareholders or the issuance of securities with rights that are superior to the rights of our common shareholders.
•difficulty or delay integrating acquired technologies, operations and personnel with our existing businesses;
•diversion of management's attention in connection with both negotiating the transaction and integrating the assets;
•strain on managerial and operational resources as management tries to oversee larger or more complex operations;
•the future funding requirements for acquired companies, which may be significant;
•potential loss of key employees;
•exposure to unforeseen liabilities or regulatory compliance issues of acquired companies;
•higher than expected or unexpected costs relating to or associated with an acquisition and integration of assets;
•difficulty realizing synergies and growth prospects of an acquisition in a timely manner or at all; and
•increased risk of costly and time-consuming legal proceedings.
If we are unable to successfully address these risks, we may not realize some or all of the expected benefits of the acquisition, which may have an adverse effect on our business strategy, plans and operating results.
We rely on supplies, services and manufacturing capacity located in geologically unstable areas, which could affect our ability to produce products.
We, like many companies in the semiconductor industry, rely on supplies, services, internal manufacturing capacity, wafer fabrication foundries and other subcontractors in geologically unstable locations around the world.
Earthquakes, tsunamis, flooding or other natural disasters may disrupt local semiconductor-related businesses and adversely affect manufacturing capacity, availability and cost of key raw materials, utilities and equipment, and availability of key services, including transport of our products worldwide.
Our insurance may not adequately cover losses resulting from such disruptions.
Any prolonged inability to utilize one of our manufacturing facilities, or those of our subcontractors or third-party wafer fabrication foundries, as a result of fire, flood, natural disaster, unavailability of utilities or otherwise, could result in a temporary or permanent loss of customers for affected products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.
We are exposed to business, economic, political, legal, regulatory and other risks through our significant worldwide operations, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
•political, legal and economic changes, crises or instability and civil unrest in foreign markets;
•currency conversion risks and exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations;
•trade policy, trade, travel, export or taxation disputes or restrictions, government sanctions, import or export tariffs or other restrictions imposed by the U.S. government or by the governments of the countries in which we do business, particularly in China;
•complex, varying and changing government regulations and legal standards and requirements, particularly with respect to price protection, competition practices, export control regulations and restrictions, customs and tax requirements, immigration, anti-boycott regulations, data privacy, intellectual property, anti-corruption and environmental compliance, including U.S. customs and export regulations and restrictions, International Traffic in Arms Regulations and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act;
•economic disruption from terrorism and threats of terrorism and the response to them by the U.S. and its allies;
•increased managerial complexities, including different employment practices and labor issues;
•changes in immigration laws, regulations and procedures and enforcement practices of various government agencies;
•greater difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights and weaker laws protecting such rights;
•natural disasters or pandemics;
•transportation disruptions and delays and increases in labor and transportation costs;
•changes to foreign taxes, tariffs and freight rates;
•fluctuations in raw material costs and energy costs;
•greater difficulty in accounts receivable collections and longer collection periods; and
•costs associated with our foreign defined benefit pension plans.
Any of these risks, or any other risks related to international business operations, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Many of these risks are present in China.
While we expect to continue to expand our business and operations in China, our success in the Chinese markets may be adversely affected by China’s continuously evolving policies, laws and regulations, including those relating to trade, taxation, import and export tariffs or restrictions, currency controls, antitrust, cybersecurity and data protection, the environment, indigenous innovation and the promotion of a domestic semiconductor industry, and intellectual property rights and enforcement and protection of those rights.
Enforcement of existing laws or agreements may be inconsistent.
In addition, changes in the political environment, governmental policies, international trade policies and relations, or U.S.-China relations could result in revisions to laws or regulations or their interpretation and enforcement, exposure of our proprietary intellectual property, increased taxation, trade sanctions, the imposition of import duties or tariffs, restrictions on imports or exports, currency revaluations, or retaliatory actions by China in response to U.S. actions, which could have an adverse effect on our business plans and operating results.
At August 4, 2018, our principal source of liquidity was $772.6 million of cash and cash equivalents, of which approximately $369.7 million was held in the United States and the remaining balance was held outside the United States in various foreign subsidiaries.
As we intend to reinvest substantially all of our foreign earnings indefinitely, certain cash held outside the United States is not available for repatriation as dividends to meet certain aspects of our cash requirements in the United States.
We require a substantial amount of cash in the United States for operating requirements, stock repurchases, cash dividends and acquisitions.
If we are unable to address our U.S. cash requirements through operations, borrowings under our current revolving credit facility, future debt or equity offerings or other sources of cash obtained at an acceptable cost, it may be necessary for us to consider repatriation of earnings that are indefinitely reinvested, and we may be required to accrue and pay foreign withholding and U.S. income taxes under current tax laws as revised by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.
Our operating results are dependent on the performance of independent distributors.
A significant portion of our sales are through independent distributors that are not under our control.
These independent distributors generally represent product lines offered by several companies and thus could reduce their sales efforts applied to our products or they could terminate their representation of us.
We generally do not require letters of credit from our distributors and are not protected against accounts receivable default or declarations of bankruptcy by these distributors.
Our inability to collect open accounts receivable could adversely affect our operating results.
Termination of a significant distributor or a group of distributors, whether at our initiative or the distributor’s initiative or through consolidation in the distribution industry, could disrupt our current business, and if we are unable to find suitable replacements, our operating results could be adversely affected.
We have also recently reduced the number of distributors we use, which may exacerbate the foregoing risks.
We are subject to environmental, health and safety (EHS) regulations, which could increase our expenses and affect our operating results.
•liability for damages and remediation;
•the imposition of regulatory penalties and civil and criminal fines;
•the suspension or termination of the development, manufacture, sale or use of certain of our products;
•changes to our manufacturing processes or a need to substitute materials that may cost more or be less available;
•increased expenses associated with compliance.
If we fail to comply with government contracting regulations, we could suffer a loss of revenue or incur price adjustments or other penalties.
Some of our revenue is derived from contracts with agencies of the United States government and subcontracts with its prime contractors.
As a United States government contractor or subcontractor, we are subject to federal contracting regulations, including the Federal Acquisition Regulations, which govern the allowability of costs incurred by us in the performance of
United States government contracts.
Certain contract pricing is based on estimated direct and indirect costs, which are subject to change.
Additionally, the United States government is entitled after final payment on certain negotiated contracts to examine all of our cost records with respect to such contracts and to seek a downward adjustment to the price of the contract if it determines that we failed to furnish complete, accurate and current cost or pricing data in connection with the negotiation of the price of the contract.
In connection with our United States government business, we are also subject to government audits and to review and approval of our policies, procedures, and internal controls for compliance with procurement regulations and applicable laws.
In certain circumstances, if we do not comply with the terms of a contract or with regulations or statutes, we could be subject to downward contract price adjustments or refund obligations or could in extreme circumstances be assessed civil and criminal penalties or be debarred or suspended from obtaining future contracts for a specified period of time.
Any such suspension or debarment or other sanction could have an adverse effect on our business.
Under some of our government subcontracts, we are required to maintain secure facilities and to obtain security clearances for personnel involved in performance of the contract, in compliance with applicable federal standards.
If we were unable to comply with these requirements, or if personnel critical to our performance of these contracts were unable to obtain or maintain their security clearances, we might be unable to perform these contracts or compete for other projects of this nature, which could adversely affect our revenue.
Restrictions in our revolving credit facility, term loans and outstanding debt instruments may limit our activities.
Our current revolving credit facility, term loans and outstanding debt instruments impose, and future debt instruments to which we may become subject may impose, restrictions that limit our ability to engage in activities that could otherwise benefit our Company, including to undertake certain transactions, to create certain liens on our assets and to incur certain subsidiary indebtedness.
Our ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond our control such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and changes in technology, government regulations and the level of competition.
In addition, our revolving credit facility requires us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios.
If we breach any of the covenants under our revolving credit facility, the indentures governing our outstanding senior unsecured notes, the term loans or any future debt instruments to which we may become subject and do not obtain appropriate waivers, then, subject to applicable cure periods, our outstanding indebtedness thereunder could be declared immediately due and payable or we may be restricted from further borrowing under our revolving credit facility.
Our stock price may be volatile.
•global economic conditions generally;
•crises in global credit, debt and financial markets;
•actual or anticipated fluctuations in our revenue and operating results;
•changes in financial estimates or other statements made by securities analysts or others in analyst reports or other publications or our failure to perform in line with those estimates or statements or our published guidance;
•financial results and prospects of our customers;
•U.S.
and foreign government actions, including with respect to trade, travel, export and taxation;
•changes in market valuations of other semiconductor companies;
•rumors and speculation in the press, investment community or on social media about us, our customers or other companies in our industry;
•announcements by us, our customers or our competitors of significant new products, technical innovations, material transactions, acquisitions or dispositions, litigation, capital commitments or revised earnings estimates;
•departures of key personnel;
•alleged noncompliance with laws, regulations or ethics standards by us or any of our employees, officers or directors; and
•negative media publicity targeting us or our suppliers, customers or competitors.
The stock market has historically experienced volatility, especially within the semiconductor industry, that often has been unrelated to the performance of particular companies.
These market fluctuations may cause our stock price to fall regardless of our operating results.
Our directors and executive officers periodically sell shares of our common stock in the market, including pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 trading plans.
Regardless of the individual's reasons for such sales, securities analysts and investors could view such sales as a negative indicator and our stock price could be adversely affected as a result.
