This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, including the following discussion, contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and our future results that are subject to the safe harbor created under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and other safe harbors under the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about the industries in which we operate and the beliefs and assumptions of our management.
Words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “targets,” “goals,” “projects,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “seeks,” “estimates,” “continues,” “may,” “could” and “will,” and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements.
In addition, any statements that refer to projections regarding our future financial performance; our anticipated growth and trends in our businesses; our future liquidity, capital needs and capital expenditures; our future market position and expected competitive changes in the marketplace for our products; our ability to pay dividends or repurchase stock; our ability to service our outstanding debt; our expected tax rate; the effect of changes in or the application of new or revised tax laws, including the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (Tax Legislation); the effect of new accounting pronouncements; our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses and technologies, including the integration of the acquired business, operations and employees of Linear Technology Corporation; and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements.
Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are only predictions and are inherently subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict, including those identified in Part II, Item 1A.
Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements.
We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements, including to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of the filing of this report, except to the extent required by law.
Results of Operations


Overview


The fiscal year ending November 3, 2018 (fiscal 2018) is a 53-week year and the fiscal year ended October 28, 2017 (fiscal 2017) was a 52-week year.
ITEM 4.Controls and Procedures




PART II — OTHER INFORMATION

ITEM 1A.Risk Factors

Set forth below and elsewhere in this report and in other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) are descriptions of certain risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report.
