 PART II. OTHER INFORMATION  



 Item 1. Legal Proceedings   



 We are subject to various legal proceedings, both asserted and unasserted, that arise in the ordinary course of business. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of such legal proceedings or in certain instances provide reasonable ranges of potential losses. However, as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q, we believe that none of these claims will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. In the event of unexpected subsequent developments and given the inherent unpredictability of these legal proceedings, there can be no assurance that our assessment of any claim will reflect the ultimate outcome and an adverse outcome in certain matters could, from time-to-time, have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations in particular quarterly or annual periods.  



 Item 1A. Risk Factors   



 You should carefully review and consider the information regarding certain factors that could materially affect our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations set forth under Item 1A. Risk Factors in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10‑K. There have been no material changes from the risk factors disclosed in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10‑K. We may disclose changes to risk factors or additional factors from time to time in our future filings with the SEC.  



 Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  



 Share Repurchase Program  



 On September 29, 2015, our Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program for up to $50 million worth of our common stock. The timing and amount of any shares repurchased are based on market and business conditions, legal requirements and other factors and may be commenced or suspended at any time at our discretion. There were no shares repurchased under this program during the six months ended March 31, 2018.  





 Table of Contents  



 Item 6. Exhibits  









 Table of Contents  



 SIGNATURES  



 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  





