fls.txt
These forward-looking statements represent the Company's current expectations or beliefs concerning future events.


item1.txt



item2.txt
Espey services include design and development to specification, build to print, design services, design studies, environmental testing services, metal fabrication, painting services, and development of automatic testing equipment.
Portions of the manufacturing and testing process are subcontracted to vendors from time to time.
Our business is not seasonal.
Future procurement needs supporting the military and the rail industry continues to drive competition.
As part of our strategy, we adjust our pricing in order to achieve a balance which enables us both to retain repeat programs while being more competitive in bidding on new programs.
Successful conversion of engineering program backlog into sales is largely dependent on the execution and completion of our engineering design efforts.
Management expects revenues in fiscal year 2019 to be higher than revenues during fiscal year 2018 but expects the gross profit margin to be lower in fiscal year 2019 than the gross profit margin during fiscal year 2018.
New orders received in the first three months of fiscal year 2019 and 2018 were approximately $6.9 million.
The estimate of the September 30, 2018 backlog to be shipped in fiscal year 2019 is subject to future events, which may cause the amount of the backlog actually shipped to differ from such estimate.
The outstanding quotations encompass various new and previously manufactured power supplies, transformers, and subassemblies.
However, there can be no assurance that the Company will acquire any of the anticipated orders described above, many of which are subject to allocations of the United States defense spending and factors affecting the defense industry.
A significant portion of the Company’s business is the production of military and industrial electronic equipment for use by the U.S. and foreign governments and certain industrial customers.
This high concentration level with these customers presents significant risk.
We account for a contract after it has been approved by all parties to the arrangement, the rights of the parties are identified, payment terms are identified, the contract has commercial substance, and collectability of consideration is probable.
When making this determination, we consider factors such as whether two or more contracts were negotiated and executed at or near the same time, or were negotiated with an overall profit objective.
Significant judgment is required in determining performance obligations.
We determine the transaction price for each contract based on the consideration we expect to receive for the products or services being provided under the contract.
The transaction price for each performance obligation is based on the estimated standalone selling price of the product or service underlying each performance obligation.
We recognize revenue using the output method based on the appraisal of results achieved and milestones reached or units delivered based on contractual shipment terms, typically shipping point.
The provision for losses on contracts is included in other accrued expenses on the Company’s balance sheet.
The costs attributed to units delivered under contracts are based on the estimated average cost of all units expected to be produced.
Certain contracts are expected to extend beyond twelve months.
The increase in net sales is primarily due to an increase in build to print sales offset, in part, by a decrease in power supply shipments.
The gross profit percentage decreased in the three months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to the same period in 2017 primarily due to the impact of incurred spending related to a specific engineering design contract.


item3.txt
Item 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities


item4.txt
Item 5.Other Information Item 6.Exhibits 31.1Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 32.1Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C.


part2.txt
Item 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures Item 5.Other Information 31.1Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 31.2Certification of the Principal Financial Officer and Executive Vice President pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 32.1Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
32.2Certification of the Principal Financial Officer and Executive Vice President pursuant to 18 U.S.C.


