fls.txt
These forward-looking statements represent the Company's current expectations or beliefs concerning future events.


item1.txt



item2.txt
Espey services include design and development to specification, build to print, design services, design studies, environmental testing services, metal fabrication, painting services, and development of automatic testing equipment.
There is competition in all classes of products manufactured by the Company, ranging from divisions of the largest electronic companies, to many small companies.
Our business is not seasonal.
However, the concentration of our business in the rail industry, and in equipment for military applications and industrial applications, and our customer concentrations expose us to on-going associated risks.
As part of our strategy, we adjust our pricing in order to achieve a balance which enables us both to retain repeat programs while being more competitive in bidding on new programs.
In order to maintain a balanced business, we are continuing to place an emphasis on securing “build to print” opportunities, which will allow production work to go directly to the manufacturing floor, limiting the impact on our engineering staff.
Successful conversion of engineering program backlog into sales is largely dependent on the execution and completion of our engineering design efforts.
Engineering programs in both the funded and unfunded portions of the current backlog aggregate $6.7 million.
Management expects revenues in fiscal year 2019 to be higher than revenues during fiscal year 2018 but expects the gross profit margin to be lower in fiscal year 2019 than the gross profit margin during fiscal year 2018.
The minimum of $24.4 million does not include any shipments, which may be made against orders subsequently received during the fiscal year ending June 30, 2019.
The estimate of the December 31, 2018 backlog to be shipped in fiscal year 2019 is subject to future events, which may cause the amount of the backlog actually shipped to differ from such estimate.
The outstanding quotations encompass various new and previously manufactured power supplies, transformers, and subassemblies.
However, there can be no assurance that the Company will acquire any of the anticipated orders described above, many of which are subject to allocations of the United States defense spending and factors affecting the defense industry.
Net sales to two significant customers represented 54.4% and 61.0% of the Company’s total sales for the six-month period ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
We account for a contract after it has been approved by all parties to the arrangement, the rights of the parties are identified, payment terms are identified, the contract has commercial substance, and collectability of consideration is probable.
We assess each contract at its inception to determine whether it should be combined with other contracts.
When making this determination, we consider factors such as whether two or more contracts were negotiated and executed at or near the same time, or were negotiated with an overall profit objective.
Significant judgment is required in determining performance obligations.
The transaction price for each performance obligation is based on the estimated standalone selling price of the product or service underlying each performance obligation.
Transaction prices on our contracts subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR) are typically based on estimated costs plus a reasonable profit margin.
We recognize revenue using the output method based on the appraisal of results achieved and milestones reached or units delivered based on contractual shipment terms, typically shipping point.
The provision for losses on contracts is included in other accrued expenses on the Company’s balance sheet.
Certain contracts are expected to extend beyond twelve months.
Gross profit as a percentage of sales was 20.8% and 26.7%, for the same periods, respectively.


item3.txt
Item 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities


item4.txt
Item 5.Other Information Item 6.Exhibits 31.1Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 32.1Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
32.2Certification of the Principal Financial Officer and Executive Vice President pursuant to 18 U.S.C.


part2.txt
Item 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures Item 5.Other Information 31.1Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 31.2Certification of the Principal Financial Officer and Executive Vice President pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 32.1Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
32.2Certification of the Principal Financial Officer and Executive Vice President pursuant to 18 U.S.C.


