fls.txt
These forward-looking statements represent the Company's current expectations or beliefs concerning future events.


item2.txt
Portions of the manufacturing and testing process are subcontracted to vendors from time to time.
There is competition in all classes of products manufactured by the Company from divisions of the largest electronic companies, as well as many small companies.
Our business is not seasonal.
However, the concentration of our business in the rail industry, and in equipment for military applications and industrial applications and our customer concentrations expose us to on-going associated risks.
These risks include, without limitation, requirements for power supplies in the rail industry, dependence on appropriations from the United States Government and the governments of foreign nations, program allocations, the potential of governmental termination of orders for convenience, and the general strength of the industry sectors in which our customers transact business.
Uncertainty in federal defense spending and future procurement needs supporting the rail industry continues to drive competition.
Accordingly, we adjust our pricing strategy in order to achieve a balance which enables us both to retain repeat programs while being more competitive in bidding on new programs.
In order to maintain a balanced business, we are continuing to place an emphasis on securing “build to print” opportunities, which will allow production work to go directly to the manufacturing floor, limiting the impact on our engineering staff.
Successful conversion of engineering program backlog into sales is largely dependent on the execution and completion of our engineering design efforts.
We are currently experiencing some technical and schedule delays with our major development programs which are being resolved as they arise.
Management expects revenues in fiscal year 2018 to be higher than revenues during fiscal year 2017.
New orders received in the nine months of fiscal year 2018 were approximately $28.6 million as compared to $16.8 million of new orders received in the first nine months of fiscal year 2017.
The minimum of $7.0 million does not include any shipments, which may be made against orders subsequently received during the fiscal year ending June 30, 2018.
The estimate of the March 31, 2018 backlog to be shipped in fiscal year 2018 is subject to future events, which may cause the amount of the backlog actually shipped to differ from such estimate.
The outstanding quotations encompass various new and previously manufactured power supplies, transformers, and subassemblies.
Net sales to two significant customers represented 58.6% and 43.2% of the Company’s total sales for the nine-month periods ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
This high concentration level with these customers presents significant risk.
Generally revenues on long-term fixed-price contracts are recorded on a percentage of completion basis using units of delivery as the measurement basis for progress toward completion.
Percentage of completion accounting requires judgment relative to expected sales, estimating costs and making assumptions related to technical issues and delivery schedules.
The estimation of cost at completion of a contract is subject to numerous variables involving contract costs and estimates as to the length of time to complete the contract.
Gross profit as a percentage of sales was 23.5% and 20.8%, for the nine months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The gross profits on mature products and build to print contracts are typically higher as compared to products which are still in the engineering development stage or in early stages of production.
In the case of the latter, the Company can incur what it refers to as “loss contracts,” meaning engineering design contracts in which the Company invests with the objective of developing future product sales.
The increase for the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the same period in 2017 relates primarily to the increase in employee compensation costs and professional services.


item3.txt
Item 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities


item4.txt
Item 5.Other Information Item 6.Exhibits 31.1Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 32.1Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
32.2Certification of the Principal Financial Officer and Executive Vice President pursuant to 18 U.S.C.


part2.txt
Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures Item 5.Other Information 31.1Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 31.2Certification of the Principal Financial Officer and Executive Vice President pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 32.1Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
32.2Certification of the Principal Financial Officer and Executive Vice President pursuant to 18 U.S.C.


