fls.txt
These forward-looking statements represent the Company's current expectations or beliefs concerning future events.


item2.txt
Espey services include design and development to specification, build to print, design services, design studies, environmental testing services, metal fabrication, painting services, and development of automatic testing equipment.
There is competition in all classes of products manufactured by the Company from divisions of the largest electronic companies, as well as many small companies.
Our business is not seasonal.
However, the concentration of our business in the rail industry, and in equipment for military applications and industrial applications and our customer concentrations expose us to on-going associated risks.
Uncertainty in federal defense spending and future procurement needs supporting the rail industry continues to drive competition.
Accordingly, we adjust our pricing strategy in order to achieve a balance which enables us both to retain repeat programs while being more competitive in bidding on new programs.
In order to maintain a balanced business, we are continuing to place an emphasis on securing “build to print” opportunities, which will allow production work to go directly to the manufacturing floor, limiting the impact on our engineering staff.
Management expects revenues in fiscal year 2018 to be higher than revenues during fiscal year 2017.
The minimum of $13.5 million does not include any shipments, which may be made against orders subsequently received during the fiscal year ending June 30, 2018.
The estimate of the December 31, 2017 backlog to be shipped in fiscal year 2018 is subject to future events, which may cause the amount of the backlog actually shipped to differ from such estimate.
The outstanding quotations encompass various new and previously manufactured power supplies, transformers, and subassemblies.
However, there can be no assurance that the Company will acquire any of the anticipated orders described above, many of which are subject to allocations of the United States defense spending and factors affecting the defense industry.
Net sales to three significant customers represented 63.2% of the Company’s total sales for the three-month period ended December 31, 2017 and net sales to two significant customers represented 38.4% of the Company's total sales for the three-month period ended December 31, 2016.
This high concentration level with these customers presents significant risk.
Generally revenues on long-term fixed-price contracts are recorded on a percentage of completion basis using units of delivery as the measurement basis for progress toward completion.
Percentage of completion accounting requires judgment relative to expected sales, estimating costs and making assumptions related to technical issues and delivery schedules.
The estimation of cost at completion of a contract is subject to numerous variables involving contract costs and estimates as to the length of time to complete the contract.
The gross profits on mature products and build to print contracts are typically higher as compared to products which are still in the engineering development stage or in early stages of production.
The gross profit percentage increased in the three and six months ended December 31, 2017 as compared to the same period in 2016 primarily due to product mix and a decrease in expenditures incurred related to engineering design investments.
The Company’s effective tax rates for the three and six months ended December 31, 2017, were 24.4% and 25.5%, respectively, compared to 29.9% and 29.2% for the three and six months ended December 31, 2016.
The effective tax rate is less than the statutory tax rate mainly due to the benefit the Company receives on its “qualified production activities” under The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 and the benefit derived from the ESOP dividends paid on allocated shares.
In addition, net income per share increased due to the reduction in the Company’s effective tax rate as discussed above.
The increase was offset, in part, by an increase in selling, general, and administrative expenses.
The Company's working capital is an appropriate indicator of the liquidity of its business, and during the past two fiscal years, the Company, when possible, has funded all of its operations with cash flows resulting from operating activities and when necessary from its existing cash and investments.


item3.txt
Item 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities


item4.txt
Item 5.Other Information Item 6.Exhibits 31.1Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 32.1Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
32.2Certification of the Principal Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C.


part2.txt
Item 5.Other Information 31.1Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 31.2Certification of the Principal Financial Officer pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 32.1Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
32.2Certification of the Principal Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C.


