item1.txt
We recognize revenue as performance obligations are satisfied, which is when the customer takes control of the products as they are shipped to or received by the customer in accordance with the terms of the agreement of sale.
Substantially all of the Company’s receivables are collected within twelve months of the transfer of products to the customer and the Company expects this to continue going forward.
The Company applies the practical expedient within ASC 606 to all of its contracts with payment terms less than or equal to twelve months and does not recognize a financing component in the determination of the transaction price.
Based on the evaluation of our resale arrangements with Kyocera, including consideration of the primary indicators set forth in ASC 606, we record revenue related to products purchased and resold on a gross basis.
Ship-from-Stock and Debit (“ship and debit”) is a program designed to assist distributor customers in meeting competitive prices in the marketplace on sales to their end customers.
Ship and debit programs require a request from the distributor for a pricing adjustment for a specific part for a sale to the distributor’s end customer from the distributor’s stock.
Ship and debit authorizations may cover current and future distributor activity for a specific part for sale to their customer.
At the time we record sales to the distributors, we provide an allowance for the variable consideration of the estimated future distributor activity related to such sales since it is probable that such sales to distributors will result in ship and debit activity.
We record an estimated sales allowance based on sales during the period, credits issued to distributors, distributor inventory levels, historical trends, market conditions, pricing trends we see in our direct sales activity with original equipment manufacturers and other customers, and input from sales, marketing, and other key management personnel.
The Company adopted this guidance effective April 1, 2018, using the modified retrospective method, with no material impact on our results of operations.
In February 2016, FASB issued ASU 2016-02, “Leases.” This guidance changes the requirements for inclusion of certain right-of-use assets and the associated lease liabilities to be included in a statement of financial position.
Regarding finance leases, lessees are required to 1) recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease liability, initially measured at the present value of the lease payments, in the statement of financial position, 2) recognize interest on the lease liability separate from the amortization of the right-of-use asset in the statement of comprehensive income, and 3) classify repayments of the principal portion of the lease liability within financing activities and payments of interest on the lease liability and variable lease payments within operating activities in the statement of cash flows.
Regarding operating leases, lessees are required to 1) recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease liability, initially measured at the present value of the lease payments, in the statement of financial position, 2) recognize a single lease cost, calculated so that the cost of the lease is allocated over the lease term on a generally straight-line basis, and 3) classify all cash payments within operating activities in the statement of cash flows.
In August 2017, FASB issued ASU 2017-12, “Derivatives and Hedging.” The standard aims to align the designation and measurement guidance for qualifying hedging relationships and the presentation of hedge results for cash flow and fair value hedge accounting with risk management activities.
We used the acquisition method of accounting to record the below transactions in accordance with FASB Accounting Standards Codification Topic 805, “Business Combinations.” In accordance with the acquisition method, the purchase price is allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values with the excess being allocated to goodwill.
In the quarter ended September 30, 2018, immaterial measurement period adjustments were made to the allocation of the purchase price.
The purchase of Ethertronics expands AVX’s extensive electronic product offering into the antenna technology market and will provide new and exciting growth opportunities for AVX going forward.
The results of operations for AVX Antenna since the acquisition date are included in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
We recognized revenue of $31,806 and $63,747 from AVX Antenna in the three and six month periods ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
The table below represents the basic and diluted earnings per share and sets forth the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding and potential common stock equivalents for the three and six month periods ending September 30, 2017 and 2018.
If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, among other factors, we evaluate general market conditions, the duration and extent to which the fair value is less than cost, and whether or not we expect to recover the security's entire amortized cost.
We primarily use forward contracts, with maturities generally less than four months, designated as cash flow hedges, to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted transactions related to purchase commitments and sales, denominated in various currencies.
These derivatives are used to offset currency changes in the fair value of the hedged assets and liabilities.
Fair values for all of our derivative financial instruments are valued by adjusting the market spot rate by forward points, based on the date of the contract.
At March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018, all of our forward contracts are valued using Level 2 measurements.
We have been identified by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”), state governmental agencies or other private parties as a potentially responsible party (“PRP”) under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), or equivalent non-U.S., state or local laws, for clean-up and response costs associated with certain sites at which remediation is required with respect to prior contamination.
Because CERCLA or such state statutes authorize joint and several liability, the EPA or non-U.S., state or local regulatory authorities could seek to recover all clean-up costs from any one of the PRPs at a site despite the involvement of other PRPs. At certain sites, financially responsible PRPs other than AVX also are, or have been, involved in site investigation and clean-up activities.
On June 3, 2010, AVX entered into an agreement with the EPA and the City of New Bedford, pursuant to which AVX is required to perform environmental remediation at a site referred to as the “Aerovox Site” (the “Site”), located in New Bedford, Massachusetts.
AVX has submitted its proposed remedy, but until the state has approved such proposal, AVX cannot determine if additional groundwater and soil remediation will be required, if substantial material will have to be disposed of offsite, or if additional remediation techniques will be required, any of which could result in a more extensive and costly plan of remediation.
We have a remaining accrual of $14,020 at September 30, 2018, representing our current estimate of the potential liability related to the remaining performance of environmental remediation actions at the Site and neighboring properties using certain assumptions regarding the plan of remediation.
We had total reserves of approximately $18,618 and $18,729 at March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018, respectively, related to various environmental matters and sites, including those discussed above.
These reserves are classified in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as $3,329 and $6,040 in accrued expenses at March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018, respectively, and $15,289 and $12,689 in other non-current liabilities at March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018, respectively.
Periodically, we review amounts recorded and adjust them to reflect additional legal and technical information that becomes available.
On April 25, 2013, AVX was named as a defendant in a patent infringement case filed in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware captioned Greatbatch, Inc. v.
On September 2, 2014, a subsidiary of AVX, American Technical Ceramics (“ATC”), was named as a defendant in a patent infringement case filed in the United States District Court of the Southern District of California captioned Presidio Components, Inc. v.
Subsequently, on October 21, 2016, the Federal Circuit Court granted AVX’s request for a stay of the permanent injunction whereby ATC was allowed to continue to sell the disputed product until March 17, 2017 to anyone who was a customer prior to June 17, 2016.
During calendar year 2014, AVX was named as a co-defendant in a series of cases filed in the United States and in the Canadian provinces of Quebec, Ontario, British Columbia, Saskatchewan and Manitoba alleging violations of United States, state and Canadian antitrust laws and asserting that AVX and numerous other companies were participants in alleged price-fixing in the capacitor market.
Comprehensive income (loss) represents changes in equity during a period except those resulting from investments by and distributions to shareholders.
The specific components include net income, pension liability and other post-retirement benefit adjustments, deferred gains and losses resulting from foreign currency translation adjustments and unrealized gains and losses on qualified foreign currency cash flow hedges.
Amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into net income (loss) include those that pertain to the Company’s pension and postretirement benefit plans and realized gains and losses on derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges.
Please see Note 12 for additional information related to the amortization of prior service cost and the recognized actuarial losses, which amounts are reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into net income (loss) and are included in selling, general and administrative expenses in the statement of operations during the three and six month periods ended September 30, 2017 and 2018.
Please see Note 13 for additional information related to realized gains and losses on derivative instruments reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into net income (loss) during the three and six month periods ended September 30, 2018.
Cash, accounts receivable, investments in securities, and certain other assets, which are centrally managed, are not readily allocable to operating segments.
Based on current actuarial computations, during the six months ended September 30, 2018, we made contributions of $3,436 to the international plans.
We made a contribution of $2,289 to the U.S. plans during the six months ended September 30, 2018.
We use derivative instruments (forward contracts) to hedge certain foreign currency exposures as part of our risk management strategy.
The objective is to offset gains and losses resulting from these exposures with gains and losses on the forward contracts used to hedge them, thereby reducing volatility of earnings or protecting fair values of assets and liabilities.
We primarily use forward contracts, with maturities less than four months, to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted transactions related to purchase commitments and sales, denominated in various currencies.
For these derivatives designated as cash flow hedging instruments, during the three and six month periods ended September 30, 2018, a net pre-tax gain of $715 and a net pre-tax loss of $118 were recognized in other comprehensive income (loss).
In addition, during the three and six month periods ended September 30, 2018, net pre-tax gains of $545 and $2,590, respectively, were reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into cost of sales (for hedging purchases), and net pretax gains of $32 and $1,403 were reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into sales (for hedging sales) in the accompanying statement of operations.
Derivatives not designated as cash flow hedging instruments consist primarily of forwards used to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposures.
These hedging instruments are used to offset foreign currency changes in the fair values of the underlying assets and liabilities.
The gains and losses on these foreign currency forward contracts are recognized in other income (loss) in the same period as the re-measurement gains and losses of the related foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities and thus naturally offset these gains and losses.
At March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018, we had the following forward contracts that were entered into to hedge against these exposures.
For these derivatives not designated as cash flow hedging instruments during the three month and six month periods ended September 30, 2018, gains of $66 on hedging contracts were recognized in other income (loss), along with the approximately $1,245 in exchange gains that were recognized in other income (loss) in the accompanying statement of operations.
On October 17, 2018, the Board of Directors of the Company declared a $0.115 dividend per share of common stock with respect to the quarter ended September 30, 2018.
Our customers consist of multi-national original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, independent electronic component distributors, and electronic manufacturing service providers, or EMSs. We market our products through our own direct sales force and independent manufacturers’ representatives, based upon market characteristics and demands.
Our net income for the three months ended September 30, 2018 was $72.1 million, or $0.43 per share, compared to net income of $34.8 million, or $0.21 per share, for the three months ended September 30, 2017.
Electronic Components sales increased $12.1 million, or 3.8% to $332.2 million in the three month period ended September 30, 2018 compared to sales of $320.1 million during the same period last year driven by favorable global macro-economic conditions, increased electronic content in automobiles, increased global defense spending, and technological advances across a broad range of IoT products and smart home devices driving increased sales in all of our Electronic Components groups.
The sales increases in our Advanced Component group were offset by lower Kyocera Resale product sales due to the previously announced decision by Kyocera to market and sell certain of its products globally using Kyocera’s salesforce as discussed above.
Ceramic Components sales for the three months ended September 30, 2018 were favorably impacted by sales of $31.8 million related to our acquisition of AVX Antenna in February 2018.
Gross profit in the three month period ended September 30, 2018 was $126.5 million, compared to a gross profit of $77.3 million in the three month period ended September 30, 2017.
Gross profit as a percentage of sales for the three month period ended September 30, 2018 was 27.7% compared to 21.9% for the three month period ended September 30, 2017.
This increase in gross profit in dollars and as a percentage of sales is reflective of our continued focus on the sale of value-added components with better margin opportunities, increased operational efficiencies, and an improved pricing environment in the global marketplace.
Costs due to currency movement were favorably impacted by $5.8 million when compared to the same period last year.
Income from operations was $85.6 million in the three month period ended September 30, 2018 compared to $44.8 million in the three month period ended September 30, 2017.
Our net income for the six months ended September 30, 2018 was $128.0 million, or $0.76 per share, compared to $66.3 million, or $0.39 per share, for the six months ended September 30, 2017.
Electronic Component sales increased $29.7 million, or 4.8% to $651.4 million in the six month period ended September 30, 2018 compared to sales of $621.8 million during the same six month period last year as a result of steadily improving global market conditions driven by increased electronic content in automobiles, increased global defense spending, and technological advances across a broad range of IoT products and smart home devices driving the increased sales in all of our Electronic Components groups.
The sales increases in our Advanced Component group were offset by lower Kyocera Resale product sales due to the previously announced decision by Kyocera to market and sell certain of its products globally using Kyocera’s salesforce as discussed above.
Our sales to independent electronic distributor customers represented 41.2% of total sales for the six month period ended September 30, 2018, compared to 48.8% for the six month period ended September 30, 2017.
Overall, distributor sales activity increased when compared to the same period last year as distributors increased order activity in response to good end market demand during the period.
Our sales to distributor customers involve specific ship-and-debit and stock rotation programs for which sales allowances are recorded as reductions in sales.
Such allowance charges were $13.5 million, or 3.6% of gross sales to distributor customers, for the six month period ended September 30, 2018, and $14.3 million, or 4.3% of gross sales to distributor customers, for the six month period ended September 30, 2017.
Applications under such programs for the six month period ended September 30, 2017 and 2018 were approximately $14.0 million and $12.9 million, respectively.
Gross profit in the six month period ended September 30, 2018 was 25.8% of sales, or $234.8 million, compared to a gross profit of 22.1% of sales, or $151.1 million, in the six month period ended September 30, 2017.
This increase in gross profit in dollars and as a percentage of sales is reflective of our continued focus on the sale of value added components with better margin opportunities, increased operational efficiencies, and an improved pricing environment in the global marketplace.
Costs due to currency movement were favorably impacted by $1.4 million when compared to the same period last year.
Selling, general and administrative expenses in the six month period ended September 30, 2018 were $81.2 million, or 8.9% of net sales, compared to $63.9 million, or 9.3% of net sales, in the six month period ended September 30, 2017.
The overall increase in these expenses is primarily due to higher selling expenses resulting from the increase in sales when compared to the same period last year.
Other income, net was $6.0 million for the six month period ended September 30, 2018 compared to $6.2 million for the same six month period last year.
The provision for income tax for the six month period ended September 30, 2018 was $31.7 million compared to $27.1 million for the six month period ended September 30, 2017.
Our effective tax rate for the six month period ended September 30, 2018 was 20.9% compared to 29.0% for the six months ended September 30, 2017.
The Company will continue to assess all relevant aspects of the Act, including additional guidance under the Act, among other things which may impact our income tax provision.
Historically, we have satisfied our liquidity requirements through funds from operations, investment income from cash and investments in securities, and cash on hand.
As of September 30, 2018, we had a current ratio of 5.5 to 1, $844.7 million of cash, cash equivalents, and investments in securities, $2.3 billion of stockholders’ equity, and no borrowings.
Purchases of property and equipment were $65.0 million in the six month period ended September 30, 2018 and $38.9 million in the six month period ended September 30, 2017.
We expect to continue making strategic capital investments in our Electronic Component and Interconnect, Sensing and Control Devices product lines and estimate that we will incur capital expenditures of approximately $100 million in fiscal 2019.
On April 30, 2018, AVX completed its purchase of Kumatec for $12.9 million in cash, net of cash acquired and debt assumed.
We have assessed the condition of our financial resources and our current business and believe that, based on our financial condition as of September 30, 2018, cash on hand and cash expected to be generated from operating activities and investment income from cash, cash equivalents, and investments in securities will be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated financing needs for working capital, capital expenditures, environmental clean-up costs, expenses related to ongoing litigation, pension plan funding, research, development, and engineering expenses, and dividend payments or stock repurchases to be made during the next twelve months.
We maintain disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in our reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
As of the end of the period covered in this report, we carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures, as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Exchange Act. Based upon that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that as of the end of the period covered by this report, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and is accumulated and communicated to our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures.


