item1.txt
Certain amounts in the prior year consolidated financial statements have been reclassified to the current year presentation.
In  June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, “Financial Instruments – Credit Losses: Measurements of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments.” This standard requires the measurement and recognition of expected credit losses held at amortized cost.
This new standard replaces the use of forward-looking information to estimate credit losses and requires credit losses for available for sale debt securities to be recorded through an allowance for credit losses rather than a reduction in the amortized cost basis.
In  August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-14, “Compensation – Retirement Benefits – Defined Benefit Plans – General.” This standard removes certain disclosures that are not considered cost beneficial, clarifies certain required disclosures and added additional disclosures.
This update is effective for public companies for annual reporting periods beginning after  December 15, 2019, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
The table below represents the basic and diluted earnings per share and sets forth the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding and potential common stock equivalents for the three month periods ending  June 30, 2018 and 2019.
During the three month periods ended  March 31, 2019 and  June 30, 2019, there have been no transfers of assets or liabilities between levels within the fair value hierarchy.
If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, among other factors, we evaluate general market conditions, the duration and extent to which the fair value is less than cost, and whether or not we expect to recover the security's entire amortized cost.
Once a decline in fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary, an impairment charge is recorded and a new cost basis in the investment is established.
We primarily use forward contracts, with maturities generally less than four months, designated as cash flow hedges, to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted transactions related to purchase commitments and sales, denominated in various currencies.
Fair values for all of our derivative financial instruments are valued by adjusting the market spot rate by forward points, based on the date of the contract.
At  March 31, 2019 and  June 30, 2019, all of our forward contracts are valued using Level 2 measurements.
At  March 31, 2019 and  June 30, 2019, we classified investments in debt securities and time deposits as held-to-maturity securities.
We have been identified by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”), state governmental agencies or other private parties as a potentially responsible party (“PRP”) under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), or equivalent non-U.S., state or local laws, for clean-up and response costs associated with certain sites at which remediation is required with respect to prior contamination.
Because CERCLA or such state statutes authorize joint and several liability, the EPA or non-U.S., state or local regulatory authorities could seek to recover all clean-up costs from any one of the PRPs at a site despite the involvement of other PRPs. At certain sites, financially responsible PRPs other than AVX also are, or have been, involved in site investigation and clean-up activities.
As is customary, the orders and decrees regarding sites where the PRPs are not themselves implementing the chosen remedy contain provisions allowing the EPA to reopen the agreement and seek additional amounts from settling PRPs in the event that certain contingencies occur, such as the discovery of significant new information about site conditions.
On  June 3, 2010, AVX entered into an agreement with the EPA and the City of New Bedford, pursuant to which AVX is required to perform environmental remediation at a site referred to as the “Aerovox Site” (the “Site”), located in New Bedford, Massachusetts.
AVX has submitted its proposed remedy, but until the state has approved such proposal, AVX cannot determine if additional groundwater and soil remediation will be required, if substantial material will have to be disposed of offsite, or if additional remediation techniques will be required, any of which could result in a more extensive and costly plan of remediation.
During the year ended  March 31, 2019 we increased our estimated accrual for work to be done at the Site by $8,312 pursuant to discussions with the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection and our environmental engineers.
We have a remaining accrual of $22,043 at  June 30, 2019, representing our current estimate of the potential liability related to the remaining performance of environmental remediation actions at the Site and neighboring properties using certain assumptions regarding the plan of remediation.
Until all parties agree and remediation is complete, we cannot be certain there will be no additional cost relating to the Site.
New environmental regulations  may be enacted and we cannot determine the modifications, if any, in our operations that any such future regulations might require, or the cost of compliance with such regulations.
On  April 25, 2013, AVX was named as a defendant in a patent infringement case filed in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware captioned Greatbatch, Inc. v.
This case alleged that certain AVX products infringe on one or more of six Greatbatch patents.
In a new trial, the amount of damages (excluding interest) was determined by a jury to be $22,100 on  January 15, 2019 resulting in a favorable accrual adjustment of $13,900 for the year ended in  March 31, 2019.
On  September 2, 2014, a subsidiary of AVX, American Technical Ceramics (“ATC”), was named as a defendant in a patent infringement case filed in the United States District Court of the Southern District of California captioned Presidio Components, Inc. v.
Subsequently, on  October 21, 2016, the Federal Circuit Court granted AVX’s request for a stay of the permanent injunction whereby ATC was allowed to continue to sell the disputed product until  March 17, 2017 to anyone who was a customer prior to  June 17, 2016.
During calendar year 2014, AVX was named as a co-defendant in a series of cases filed in the United States and in the Canadian provinces of Quebec, Ontario, British Columbia, Saskatchewan and Manitoba alleging violations of United States, state and Canadian antitrust laws asserting that AVX and numerous other companies were participants in alleged price-fixing in the capacitor market.
Comprehensive income (loss) represents changes in equity during a period except those resulting from investments by and distributions to shareholders.
The specific components include net income, pension liability and other post-retirement benefit adjustments, deferred gains and losses resulting from foreign currency translation adjustments and unrealized gains and losses on qualified foreign currency cash flow hedges.
Amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into net income include those that pertain to the Company’s pension and postretirement benefit plans and realized gains and losses on derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges.
Please see Note 11 for additional information related to the amortization of prior service cost and the recognized actuarial losses, which amounts are reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into net income and are included in selling, general and administrative expenses in the statement of operations during the three month periods ended  June 30, 2018 and 2019.
Please see Note 12 for additional information related to realized gains and losses on derivative instruments reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into net income during the three month periods ended  June 30, 2018 and 2019.
Based on current actuarial computations, during the three months ended  June 30, 2019, we made contributions of $646 to the international plans.
We made no contributions to the U.S. plans during the three months ended  June 30, 2019.
We use derivative instruments (forward contracts) to hedge certain foreign currency exposures as part of our risk management strategy.
The objective is to offset gains and losses resulting from these exposures with gains and losses on the forward contracts used to hedge them, thereby reducing volatility of earnings or protecting fair values of assets and liabilities.
We primarily use forward contracts, with maturities less than 4 months, to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted transactions related to purchase commitments and sales denominated in various currencies.
For these derivatives designated as cash flow hedging instruments, during the three month period ended  June 30, 2019, net pre-tax gains of $512 were recognized in other comprehensive income (loss).
In addition, during the three month period ended  June 30, 2019, net pre-tax losses of $392 were reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into cost of sales (for hedging purchases), and net pre-tax gains of $694 were reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into sales (for hedging sales) in the accompanying statement of operations.
Derivatives not designated as cash flow hedging instruments consist primarily of forwards used to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposures.
These hedging instruments are used to offset foreign currency changes in the fair values of the underlying assets and liabilities.
The gains and losses on these foreign currency forward contracts are recognized in other income (loss) in the same period as the remeasurement gains and losses of the related foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities and thus naturally offset these gains and losses.
At  March 31, 2019 and  June 30, 2019, we had the following forward contracts that were entered into to hedge against these exposures.
For these derivatives not designated as cash flow hedging instruments during the three month period ended  June 30, 2019, losses of $57 on hedging contracts were recognized in other income (loss), along with the approximately $227 in exchange losses that were recognized in other income (loss) in the accompanying statement of operations.
At  March 31, 2019 and  June 30, 2019, we had outstanding foreign exchange contracts with notional amounts totaling $216,555 and $242,587, respectively, denominated primarily in Euros, Czech Korunas, British Pounds, and Japanese Yen.
We do not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statement contained in this quarterly report to reflect new events or circumstances unless and to the extent required by applicable law.
All forward-looking statements contained in this quarterly report constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 21E of the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and, to the extent it may be applicable by way of incorporation of statements contained in this quarterly report by reference or otherwise, Section 27A of the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended, each of which establishes a safe-harbor from private actions for forward-looking statements as defined in those statutes.
Our customers consist of multi-national original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, independent electronic component distributors, and electronic manufacturing service providers, or EMSs. We market our products through our own direct sales force and independent manufacturers’ representatives, based upon market characteristics and demands.
Our net income for the three months ended June 30, 2019 was $54.7 million, or $0.32 per share, compared to net income of $56.0 million, or $0.33 per share, for the three months ended June 30, 2018.
Net sales in the three month period ended June 30, 2019 decreased $52.3 million or 11.5%, to $401.8 million compared to $454.1 million in the three month period ended June 30, 2018.
The decrease in revenue was attributable to lower volumes resulting from weaker global market conditions reflecting a slowdown in the Asian markets resulting from a weaker Chinese economy due to tariffs and other economic issues in addition to reduced automotive manufacturing across all regions.
Customers remained cautious with higher than normal inventory levels in the sales channel, particularly at our distribution customers, contributing to lower overall demand, primarily in the automotive, cellular, and consumer markets.
Sales were unfavorably impacted by approximately $8.7 million as a result of currency movement due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar as compared to the Japanese Yen and Euro when compared to the same period last year.
Electronic Components sales decreased $41.7 million, or 13.1% to $277.5 million in the three month period ended June 30, 2019 compared to sales of $319.2 million during the same period last year driven by unfavorable global macro-economic conditions partially offset by increased electronic content in automobiles, global defense spending, and technological advances across a broad range of IoT products.
The increase in Ceramic Components is primarily due to higher demand and a more favorable pricing environment during the quarter ended June 30, 2019 compared to the same quarter last year.
Tantalum Components have declined during the quarter ended June 30, 2019 compared to the same period last year as a result of lower demand, primarily in Asia, resulting from the decline in the Chinese economy in addition to higher inventory levels in the sales channel in all regions, particularly with our distribution customers.
The decline in Advanced Components during the quarter ended June 30, 2019 compared to the same quarter last year has been impacted by approximately $17 million of sales for Kyocera product which is no longer sold by AVX in addition to a slower mobile phone market.
Interconnect, Sensing and Control Devices product sales decreased $10.6 million to $124.3 million in the three month period ended June 30, 2019 compared to $134.9 million during the same period last year.
Overall sales percentages decreased in the Asian and European regions as a result of the weaker Chinese economy and weaker automotive markets while sales increased in our American region compared to the same three-month period last year.
Sales in the Asian, American, and European markets represented 29%, 29% and 42% of total sales, respectively, for the three month period ended June 30, 2019.
This compares to 31%, 25% and 44% of total sales for the Asian, American, and European regions in the same period last year, respectively.
Our sales to independent electronic distributor customers represented 38% of total sales for the three month period ended June 30, 2019, compared to 40% for the three month period ended June 30, 2018.
Overall, distributor sales activity decreased when compared to the same period last year as inventory remains higher than normal within the distribution channel resulting from the slower global economy and shortened lead times for certain products making distributors reluctant to take on additional inventory.
Such allowance charges were $5.3 million, or 3.5% of gross sales to distributor customers for the three month period ended June 30, 2019, and $6.4 million, or 3.5% of gross sales to distributor customers, for the three month period ended June 30, 2018.
Applications under such programs for the three month periods ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 were approximately $5.1 million and $6.2 million, respectively.
Gross profit in the three month period ended June 30, 2019 was $100.6 million, compared to a gross profit of $108.3 million in the three month period ended June 30, 2018.
Gross profit as a percentage of sales for the three month period ended June 30, 2019 was 25.1% compared to 23.9% for the three month period ended June 30, 2018.
This increase in gross profit as a percentage of sales is reflective of our continued focus on the sale of value-added components with better margin opportunities, increased operational efficiencies, and an improved pricing environment in the global marketplace when compared to the same quarter last year.
Costs due to currency movement were favorably impacted by $8.0 million when compared to the same period last year.
Selling, general and administrative expenses in the three month period ended June 30, 2019 were $41.9 million, or 10.4% of net sales, compared to $40.3 million, or 8.9% of net sales, in the three month period ended June 30, 2018.
When compared to the same quarter last year, the overall increase in these expenses is primarily due to higher legal fees partially offset by lower selling expenses as a result of the lower sales.
Income from operations was $58.7 million in the three month period ended June 30, 2019 compared to $68.0 million in the three month period ended June 30, 2018.
The provision for income tax for the three month period ended June 30, 2019 was $8.5 million compared to $14.8 million for the three month period ended June 30, 2018.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter ended June 30, 2019 was approximately 13%.
Excluding these adjustments, the effective tax rate would be approximately 21% for the quarter ended June 30, 2019.
As a result of the factors discussed above, net income for the three month period ended June 30, 2019 was $54.7 million compared to net income of $56.0 million for the same three month period last year.
Historically, we have satisfied our liquidity requirements through funds from operations, investment income from cash and investments in securities, and cash on hand.
As of June 30, 2019, we had a current ratio of 6 to 1, $790.3 million of cash, cash equivalents, and investments in securities, $2.4 billion of stockholders’ equity, and no borrowings.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $32.1 million in the three month period ended June 30, 2019 compared to $97.6 million of cash provided by operating activities in the three month period ended June 30, 2018.
Purchases of property and equipment were $34.4 million in the three month period ended June 30, 2019 and $38.0 million in the three month period ended June 30, 2018.
We expect to continue making strategic capital investments in our Electronic Component and Interconnect, Sensing and Control Devices product lines and estimate that we will incur capital expenditures of approximately $100 million in fiscal 2020.
We have assessed the condition of our financial resources and our current business and believe that, based on our financial condition as of June 30, 2019, cash on hand and cash expected to be generated from operating activities and investment income from cash, cash equivalents, and investments in securities will be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated financing needs for working capital, capital expenditures, environmental clean-up costs, expenses related to ongoing litigation, pension plan funding, research, development, and engineering expenses, and dividend payments or stock repurchases to be made during the next twelve months.
While changes in customer demand have an impact on our future cash requirements, changes in those requirements are mitigated by our ability to adjust manufacturing capabilities to meet increases or decreases in customer demand.
There have been no material net changes in our exposure to foreign currency exchange rates as reflected in Part II, Item 7A “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019.
We maintain disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in our reports under the Exchange Act, is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
As of the end of the period covered in this report, we carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures, as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Exchange Act. Based upon that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that as of the end of the period covered by this report, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and is accumulated and communicated to our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures.


