The Company uses a 52- to 53-week fiscal year ending on the Saturday nearest March 31. Fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019 are both 52-week years ending on March 28, 2020 and March 30, 2019, respectively. The quarters ended June 29, 2019 and June 30, 2018 each consisted of 13 weeks.
•large enterprises, like hyperscalers, that have the resources to develop proprietary semiconductors.
No other distributor or end customer accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s worldwide net revenues for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and 2019.
Our strategy for expansion in the logic market includes continued introduction of new product architectures that address high-volume, low-cost and low-power applications as well as high-performance, high-density applications. However, we may not be successful in executing this strategy. In addition, we anticipate continued pressure from our customers to reduce prices, which may outpace our ability to lower the cost for established products. 
Our ability to design and introduce new products in a timely manner is dependent upon third-party IP. 
Any failure of our information technology systems to function properly could result in business disruption.
The Company recorded a tax provision of $21.1 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 as compared to $22.9 million in the same prior year period, representing effective tax rates of 8% and 11%, respectively. 
For the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and 2019, approximately 50% and 63%, respectively, of the Company's net revenues were from products sold to distributors for subsequent resale to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) or their subcontract manufacturers.
Geographic revenue information for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and 2019 reflects the geographic location of the distributors or OEMs who purchased the Company's products. This may differ from the geographic location of the end customers.
A number of factors, including our inventory strategy, can impact our gross margins.Net revenues in Europe increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 from the comparable prior year period. The increase was primarily due to higher sales from wireless, and to a lesser extent, AIT businesses. 
Net revenues in Japan increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 from the comparable prior year period. The increase was primarily due to higher sales from industrial business. •large enterprises, like hyperscalers, that have the resources to develop proprietary semiconductors.
Our strategy for expansion in the logic market includes continued introduction of new product architectures that address high-volume, low-cost and low-power applications as well as high-performance, high-density applications. However, we may not be successful in executing this strategy. In addition, we anticipate continued pressure from our customers to reduce prices, which may outpace our ability to lower the cost for established products. 
Our ability to design and introduce new products in a timely manner is dependent upon third-party IP. 
Any failure of our information technology systems to function properly could result in business disruption.
Reductions in the average selling prices of our products could have a negative impact on our gross margins. 
A number of factors, including our inventory strategy, can impact our gross margins.