 For the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019, resale of product through Avnet accounted for 46% and 48% of the Company's worldwide net revenues, respectively. For the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018, resale of product through Avnet accounted for 46% and 43% of the Company’s worldwide net revenues, respectively. 
During the second quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company completed the acquisition of Deephi Tech by acquiring all its outstanding ordinary shares. Deephi Tech was a privately held start-up with industry-leading capabilities in machine learning and focusing on system-level neural network optimization. This acquisition strengthens the Company's capabilities in artificial intelligence applications.
No end customer accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s worldwide net revenues for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019 and 2018.
Our strategy for expansion in the logic market includes continued introduction of new product architectures that address high-volume, low-cost and low-power applications as well as high-performance, high-density applications. However, we may not be successful in executing this strategy. In addition, we anticipate continued pressure from our customers to reduce prices, which may outpace our ability to lower the cost for established products. 
Our ability to design and introduce new products in a timely manner is dependent upon third-party IP. 
The Company uses a 52- to 53-week fiscal year ending on the Saturday nearest March 31. Fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018 are both 52-week years ending on March 30, 2019 and March 31, 2018, respectively. The quarters ended September 29, 2018 and September 30, 2017 each consisted of 13 weeks.
During the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2019, the Company realized excess tax benefits of $7.8 million 
A number of factors, including our inventory strategy, can impact our gross margins.
From time to time, the Company is involved in various disputes and litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of its business. These include disputes and lawsuits related to intellectual property, mergers and acquisitions, licensing, contract law, tax, regulatory, distribution arrangements, employee relations and other matters. Periodically, the Company reviews the status of each matter and assesses its potential financial exposure. If the potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered probable and a range of possible losses can be estimated, the Company accrues a liability for the estimated loss. Legal proceedings are subject to uncertainties, and the outcomes are difficult to predict. Because of such uncertainties, accruals are based only on the best information available at the time. As additional information becomes available, the Company continues to reassess the potential liability related to pending claims and litigation and may revise estimates.
In the design and development of new products and product enhancements, we rely on third-party intellectual property such as software development tools and hardware testing tools. Furthermore, certain product features may rely on intellectual property acquired from third parties, including hardware and software tools and products. The design requirements necessary to meet future consumer demands for more features and greater functionality from semiconductor products may exceed the capabilities of the third-party intellectual property or development tools that are available to us. In addition, hardware and software tools and products procured from third parties may contain design or manufacturing defects, including flaws that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of our products. If the third-party intellectual property that we use becomes unavailable or fails to produce designs that meet consumer demands, our business could be adversely affected. 
The Company recorded a tax provision of $23.4 million and $46.3 million for the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2019, respectively, representing effective tax rates of 9.8% and 10.2%, respectively. The Company recorded tax provisions of $20.3 million and $33.9 million for the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2018, respectively, representing effective tax rates of 10.4% and 9.3%, respectively. The prior year amounts have been restated to reflect the retrospective application of the current authoritative guidance for revenue recognition. Refer to "Note 2. Recent Accounting Changes and Accounting Pronouncements" for additional detail.Net revenues in Japan was relatively flat in the second quarter of fiscal 2019, but increased in the first six months of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year periods. Revenue from TME increased for both periods, but the increase was offset by lower sales from Wireless, in particular during the second quarter of fiscal 2019. 
Net revenues in Europe increased in the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year periods. The increases were primarily due to higher sales from TME and Automotive. 
Net revenues from Communications increased in the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year periods. The increases were primarily due to higher sales from all sub-segments, with particular strength coming from Wireless. Our strategy for expansion in the logic market includes continued introduction of new product architectures that address high-volume, low-cost and low-power applications as well as high-performance, high-density applications. However, we may not be successful in executing this strategy. In addition, we anticipate continued pressure from our customers to reduce prices, which may outpace our ability to lower the cost for established products. 
Our ability to design and introduce new products in a timely manner is dependent upon third-party IP. 
Any failure of our information technology systems to function properly could result in business disruption.
Reductions in the average selling prices of our products could have a negative impact on our gross margins. 
A number of factors, including our inventory strategy, can impact our gross margins.