No other distributor accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s worldwide net revenues for the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2020 and 2019. One end customer accounted for 12% and 10% of the Company's worldwide net revenues for the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2020, respectively. No end customer accounted for more than 10% of the Company's worldwide net revenues for the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2019. 
For the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2020, approximately 49% and 49%, respectively, of the Company's net revenues were from products sold to distributors for subsequent resale to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) or their subcontract manufacturers. For the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2019 the percentages of the Company's net revenues from distributors were 56% and 60%, respectively.
•large enterprises, like hyperscalers, that have the resources to develop proprietary semiconductors.
In July 2019, the Company completed the acquisition of Solarflare by acquiring all of its outstanding ordinary shares. Solarflare is a leading provider of high-performance, low latency networking solutions for customers spanning FinTech to cloud computing. This acquisition enables the Company to combine its industry leading solutions with Solarflare's ultra-low latency network interface card (NIC) technology and onload application acceleration software, to enable new converged SmartNIC solutions.
The Company recorded a tax benefit of $11.1 million and a tax provision of $9.9 million for the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2020, respectively, representing effective tax rates of (5.2)% and 2.1%, respectively. The Company recorded tax provisions of $23.4 million and $46.3 million for the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2019, respectively, representing effective tax rates of 9.8% and 10.2%, respectively. 
Our strategy for expansion in the logic market includes continued introduction of new product architectures that address high-volume, low-cost and low-power applications as well as high-performance, high-density applications. However, we may not be successful in executing this strategy. In addition, we anticipate continued pressure from our customers to reduce prices, which may outpace our ability to lower the cost for established products. 
Our ability to design and introduce new products in a timely manner is dependent upon third-party IP. 
Any failure of our information technology systems to function properly could result in business disruption.
The Company uses a 52- to 53-week fiscal year ending on the Saturday nearest March 31. Fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019 are both 52-week years ending on March 28, 2020 and March 30, 2019, respectively. The quarters ended September 28, 2019 and September 29, 2018 each consisted of 13 weeks.
Geographic revenue information for the second quarter of fiscal 2020 and 2019 reflects the geographic location of the distributors or OEMs who purchased the Company's products. This may differ from the geographic location of the end customers.Net revenues in Japan decreased in the second quarter of fiscal 2020, but increased in the first six months of fiscal 2020 from the comparable prior year periods. The decrease in the second quarter of fiscal 2020 was primarily due to lower sales from Test, Measurement and Emulation, and Industrial, Scientific and Medical businesses. The increase in the first six months of fiscal 2020 was primarily due to higher sales from Industrial, Scientific and Medical business, in particular within the first three months of the year. 
Net revenues from Wired and Wireless increased significantly in the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2020 from the comparable prior year periods. The increases were due to higher sales from wireless business driven by the initial deployment ramp of 5G wireless networks, but were partially offset by lower sales from wireline business. 
Net revenues in Asia Pacific increased in the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2020 from the comparable prior year periods. The increases were primarily due to higher sales from Wireless business, driven by the initial deployment ramp of 5G wireless networks, and to a lesser extent due to higher sales from Data Center business. •large enterprises, like hyperscalers, that have the resources to develop proprietary semiconductors.
Our strategy for expansion in the logic market includes continued introduction of new product architectures that address high-volume, low-cost and low-power applications as well as high-performance, high-density applications. However, we may not be successful in executing this strategy. In addition, we anticipate continued pressure from our customers to reduce prices, which may outpace our ability to lower the cost for established products. 
Our ability to design and introduce new products in a timely manner is dependent upon third-party IP. 
Any failure of our information technology systems to function properly could result in business disruption.
Reductions in the average selling prices of our products could have a negative impact on our gross margins. 