The Company uses a 52- to 53-week fiscal year ending on the Saturday nearest March 31. Fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018 are both 52-week years ending on March 30, 2019 and March 31, 2018, respectively. The quarters ended June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017 each consisted of 13 weeks.
No end customer accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s worldwide net revenues for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and 2018.
Our strategy for expansion in the logic market includes continued introduction of new product architectures that address high-volume, low-cost and low-power applications as well as high-performance, high-density applications. However, we may not be successful in executing this strategy. In addition, we anticipate continued pressure from our customers to reduce prices, which may outpace our ability to lower the cost for established products. 
Our ability to design and introduce new products in a timely manner is dependent upon third-party IP. 
Any failure of our information technology systems to function properly could result in business disruption.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company repurchased 2.1 million shares of common stock for a total of $136.8 million and during the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company repurchased 1.0 million shares of common stock for a total of $67.1 million.
A number of factors, including our inventory strategy, can impact our gross margins.
From time to time, the Company is involved in various disputes and litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of its business. These include disputes and lawsuits related to intellectual property, mergers and acquisitions, licensing, contract law, tax, regulatory, distribution arrangements, employee relations and other matters. Periodically, the Company reviews the status of each matter and assesses its potential financial exposure. If the potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered probable and a range of possible losses can be estimated, the Company accrues a liability for the estimated loss. Legal proceedings are subject to uncertainties, and the outcomes are difficult to predict. Because of such uncertainties, accruals are based only on the best information available at the time. As additional information becomes available, the Company continues to reassess the potential liability related to pending claims and litigation and may revise estimates.
In the design and development of new products and product enhancements, we rely on third-party intellectual property such as software development tools and hardware testing tools. Furthermore, certain product features may rely on intellectual property acquired from third parties, including hardware and software tools and products. The design requirements necessary to meet future consumer demands for more features and greater functionality from semiconductor products may exceed the capabilities of the third-party intellectual property or development tools that are available to us. In addition, hardware and software tools and products procured from third parties may contain design or manufacturing defects, including flaws that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of our products. If the third-party intellectual property that we use becomes unavailable or fails to produce designs that meet consumer demands, our business could be adversely affected. 
We cannot guarantee that our foundries will not experience manufacturing problems, including delays in the realization of advanced manufacturing process technologies or difficulties due to limitations of new and existing process technologies. For example, we may experience supply shortages due to the difficulties foundries may encounter if they must rapidly increase their production capacities from low utilization levels to high utilization levels because of an unexpected increase in demand. Furthermore, we cannot guarantee that the foundries will be able to manufacture sufficient quantities of our products or that they will continue to manufacture a given product for the full life of the product. We could also experience supply shortages due to very strong demand for our products, or a surge in demand for semiconductors in general, which may lead to tightening of foundry capacity across the industry. In addition, weak economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health and viability of the foundries and result in their insolvency or their inability to meet their commitments to us. The insolvency of a foundry or any significant manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity would disrupt our operations and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.
•market acceptance of our customers' products. Net revenues in Europe increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year period. The increase was primarily due to higher sales from Industrial, Scientific and Medical and Data Center, but was partially offset by decline in sales from Wireless and TME. 
Net revenues from Communications decreased in the first three months of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year period. The decrease was primarily due to lower sales from Wireless, and to a lesser extent from Wireline business. Our strategy for expansion in the logic market includes continued introduction of new product architectures that address high-volume, low-cost and low-power applications as well as high-performance, high-density applications. However, we may not be successful in executing this strategy. In addition, we anticipate continued pressure from our customers to reduce prices, which may outpace our ability to lower the cost for established products. 
Our ability to design and introduce new products in a timely manner is dependent upon third-party IP. 
Any failure of our information technology systems to function properly could result in business disruption.
Reductions in the average selling prices of our products could have a negative impact on our gross margins. 
A number of factors, including our inventory strategy, can impact our gross margins.