Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations



Forward-looking statements and factors that may affect future results



The discussion below contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to safe harbors under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) and the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). Forward-looking statements include references to our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets, as well as statements including words such as “expects,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “predicts,” “goal,” “intent,” “momentum,” “projects,” and similar expressions. In addition, projections of our future financial performance; anticipated growth and trends in our businesses and in our industries; the anticipated impacts of acquisitions, restructurings, stock repurchases and investment activities; the outcome or impact of pending litigation, claims or disputes; our intent to pay quarterly cash dividends in the future; plans for and anticipated benefits of our solutions; matters arising out of our completed Audit Committee Investigation and the ongoing U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) investigation; and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. These statements are only predictions, based on our current expectations about future events and may not prove to be accurate. We do not undertake any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect events occurring or circumstances arising after the date of this report. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and our actual results, performance, or achievements could differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements on the basis of several factors, including those that we discuss in Part II Item 1A, of this quarterly report on Form 10-Q. We encourage you to read that section carefully.



OVERVIEW



We are a global leader in cyber security and provide cyber security products, services and solutions to organizations and individuals worldwide. Our Enterprise Security portfolio includes a deep and broad mix of products, services and solutions, delivered as part of an Integrated Cyber Defense Platform, which unifies cloud and on-premises security to provide advanced threat protection and information protection across all endpoints, networks, email, and cloud applications. Our Cyber Safety Solutions (delivered through our Norton and LifeLock offerings) help consumers protect their information, identities, devices and networks at home and online.



Fiscal calendar





Key financial metrics











•Net revenues were relatively flat compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, as increases in revenue from our identity and information protection solutions and from the impact of the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard were partially offset by a decrease as a result of the divestiture of our website security (“WSS”) and public key infrastructure (“PKI”) solutions in October 2017.



•Operating income increased $73 million primarily due to lower stock-based compensation expense and restructuring, transition and other costs. 



•Net income and diluted net income per share decreased primarily due to the absence of a gain on the divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions and a net income tax benefit as a result of the Act, both of which were recorded in our third quarter of fiscal 2018.





•Net revenues decreased 2% primarily as a result of the divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions, partially offset by an increase in revenue from our identity and information protection solutions.



•Operating income increased $230 million primarily due to increased revenue from our identity and information protection solutions and lower stock-based compensation, partially offset by the negative impact to Enterprise Security Segment operating income due to the fiscal 2018 divestiture of WSS and PKI solutions.



•Net income and diluted net income per share decreased primarily due to the absence of a gain on the divestiture of WSS and PKI solutions and a net income tax benefit as a result of the Act, which both were recorded during the third quarter of fiscal 2018.



•Cash flow from operating activities increased $264 million due to higher net income adjusted for non-cash items, partially offset by unfavorable net changes in operating assets and liabilities. 



•Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments increased by $417 million compared to March 30, 2018, primarily due to cash provided by operations, partially offset by investing and financing activities, consisting primarily of additions to property and equipment, tax payments related to restricted stock units and payments of dividend and dividend equivalents.



•Contract liabilities decreased $188 million compared to March 30, 2018, primarily due to a decrease of $169 million in the March 30, 2018 balances as a result of the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard.



CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES 



The preparation of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. requires us to make estimates, including judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We have based our estimates on historical experience and on various assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. We evaluate our estimates on a regular basis and make changes accordingly. Management believes that the accounting estimates employed and the resulting amounts are reasonable; however, actual results may differ from these estimates. Making estimates and judgments about future events is inherently unpredictable and is subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. Should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.



 The critical accounting policies and estimates were disclosed in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 30, 2018. There have been no material changes in the matters for which we make critical accounting estimates in the preparation of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements during the nine months ended December 28, 2018, except for changes as a result of the adoption of the new revenue recognition accounting standard. 



Revenue recognition



We recognize revenue primarily pursuant to the requirements under the authoritative guidance on contracts with customers. Revenue recognition requirements are very complex and require us to make estimates and assumptions.



We enter into arrangements with multiple performance obligations, which may include hardware, software licenses, cloud services, support and maintenance, and professional services. We allocate revenue to each performance obligation on a relative fair value basis based on management’s estimate of stand-alone selling price (“SSP”). Judgments are required to determine the SSP for each performance obligation. The determination of SSP is made by taking into consideration observable prices in historical transactions. When observable prices in historical transactions are not available or are inconsistent, we estimate SSP based on observable prices in historical transactions of similar products, pricing discount practices, product margins, and other factors that may vary over time depending upon the unique facts and circumstances related to each performance obligation. Changes to the performance obligations in an arrangement, the judgments required to estimate the SSP for the respective performance obligations, and increasing variability in contractual arrangements could materially impact the amount and timing of revenue recognition.



RESULTS OF OPERATIONS







Percentages may not add due to rounding.



Net revenues





Three Months Ended December 28, 2018 Compared with Three Months Ended December 29, 2017 



Net revenues were relatively flat compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, as an increase of $18 million from our Consumer Digital Safety segment due to a $21 million increase in revenue from identity and information protection solutions was largely offset by a $16 million decrease from our Enterprise Security segment, primarily due to a $35 million decrease as a result of the divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions, partially offset by a $16 million increase as a result of the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard.



Nine Months Ended December 28, 2018 Compared with Nine Months Ended December 29, 2017 



Net revenues decreased $82 million primarily due to a $218 million decrease from our Enterprise Security segment primarily due to the divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions, offset by an increase of $136 million from our Consumer Digital Safety segment due to increased revenue from identity and information protection solutions. 



Net revenues by geographical region





Percentages may not add up to 100% due to rounding.



The Americas include the U.S., Canada and Latin America; EMEA includes Europe, the Middle East and Africa; APJ includes Asia Pacific and Japan.



Cost of revenues





Three Months Ended December 28, 2018 Compared with Three Months Ended December 29, 2017 



Our cost of revenues increased primarily due to a $10 million increase in technical support costs.



Nine Months Ended December 28, 2018 Compared with Nine Months Ended December 29, 2017



Our cost of revenues increased $3 million primarily due to a $50 million increase in our Consumer Digital Safety segment to support growth, partially offset by a $37 million decrease from the divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions.



Operating expenses





Three Months Ended December 28, 2018 Compared with Three Months Ended December 29, 2017 



Sales and marketing expense decreased $8 million primarily due to a $7 million decrease in stock-based compensation and a $5 million decrease in advertising and promotional expense, partially offset by a $10 million increase in other compensation related expenses.



Research and development expense decreased $16 million primarily due to a $30 million decrease in stock-based compensation, partially offset by a $8 million increase in other compensation related expenses.



General and administrative expense decreased $24 million primarily due to a decrease of $30 million in stock-based compensation, partially offset by a $7 million increase in other compensation related expenses.



Amortization of intangible assets was relatively flat compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.



Restructuring, transition and other costs decreased $40 million primarily due to a $39 million decrease in transition related costs reflecting the absence in fiscal 2019 of separation costs that were incurred in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 as a result of the divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions.



Nine Months Ended December 28, 2018 Compared with Nine Months Ended December 29, 2017 



Sales and marketing expense decreased $124 million primarily due to a $41 million decrease as a result of the divestiture of our WSS and KPI solutions, a $48 million decrease in advertising and promotional expense, primarily in our Consumer Digital 



Safety segment, and a $38 million decrease in stock-based compensation expense, partially offset by a $15 million increase in other compensation related expenses. 



Research and development expense decreased $22 million primarily due to a $46 million decrease in stock-based compensation, partially offset by a $15 million increase in outside services.



General and administrative expense decreased $86 million primarily due to a $90 million decrease in stock-based compensation.



Amortization of intangible assets decreased primarily due to intangibles sold with the divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions.



Restructuring, transition and other costs decreased $73 million primarily due to a $35 million decrease in restructuring costs and a $38 million decrease in transition related costs, due to the absence in fiscal 2019 of separation costs that were incurred in fiscal 2018 as a result of the divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions, partially offset by higher consulting costs associated with our enterprise resource planning and supporting systems projects.



Non-operating income (expense), net





Three Months Ended December 28, 2018 Compared with Three Months Ended December 29, 2017 



Non-operating income (expense), net, decreased by $681 million primarily due to the absence of the fiscal 2018 $658 million gain on the divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions. In addition, in the third quarter of fiscal 2019, we incurred a $24 million loss from our equity interest received in connection with the divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions.



Nine Months Ended December 28, 2018 Compared with Nine Months Ended December 29, 2017 



Non-operating income (expense), net, decreased by $676 million primarily due to the absence of the fiscal 2018 $658 million gain on the divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions. In addition, in the first nine months of fiscal 2019, we incurred an $84 million loss from our equity interest discussed above, partially offset by a $42 million decrease in interest expense as a result of lower outstanding borrowings due to repayments during fiscal 2018.



Provision for income taxes





Our effective tax rate for continuing operations for fiscal 2019 was based on the statutory tax rate of 21%. Our effective tax rate for continuing operations for fiscal 2018 differs from the federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to the tax expense from one-time adjustments for newly issued guidance on the Act and other changes in response to tax reform, partially offset by the benefits of lower-taxed international earnings, the research and development tax credit and foreign derived intangible income deduction.



Our effective tax rate for income from continuing operations for the nine months ended December 29, 2017 differs from the federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to accounting for the effects of enactment of the Act on December 22, 2017, the benefits of lower-taxed international earnings, the research and development tax credit, and excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation, partially offset by various permanent differences.



We are a U.S.-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple U.S. and international tax jurisdictions. A substantial portion of our international earnings were generated from subsidiaries organized in Ireland and Singapore. Our results of operations would be adversely affected to the extent that our geographical mix of income becomes more weighted toward 



jurisdictions with higher tax rates and would be favorably affected to the extent the relative geographic mix shifts to lower tax jurisdictions. Any change in our mix of earnings is dependent upon many factors and is therefore difficult to predict.



The timing of the resolution of income tax examinations is highly uncertain, and the amounts ultimately paid, if any, upon resolution of the issues raised by the taxing authorities may differ materially from the amounts accrued for each year. Although potential resolution of uncertain tax positions involve multiple tax periods and jurisdictions, it is reasonably possible that the gross unrecognized tax benefits related to these audits could decrease, whether by payment, release, or a combination of both, in the next 12 months by $22 million, which could reduce our income tax provision and therefore benefit the resulting effective tax rate.



We continue to monitor the progress of ongoing income tax controversies and the impact, if any, of the expected expiration of the statute of limitations in various taxing jurisdictions.



Segment operating results



We do not allocate to our operating segments certain operating expenses that we manage separately at the corporate level and are not used in evaluating the results of, or in allocating resources to, our segments. These unallocated expenses primarily consist of stock-based compensation expense, amortization of intangible assets, restructuring, transition and other costs, and acquisition-related costs. See Note 15 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.



Enterprise Security Segment





Three Months Ended December 28, 2018 Compared with Three Months Ended December 29, 2017 



Revenue decreased $16 million primarily due to a $35 million decrease as a result of the fiscal 2018 divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions, partially offset by a $16 million increase as a result of the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard. Operating income decreased $45 million primarily due to the divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions which contributed $23 million to segment operating income in the third quarter of fiscal 2018.



Nine Months Ended December 28, 2018 Compared with Nine Months Ended December 29, 2017 



Revenue decreased $218 million primarily due to a $238 million decrease as a result of the fiscal 2018 divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions, partially offset by a $26 million increase as a result of the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard. Operating income decreased $150 million primarily due to the divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions which contributed $141 million to segment operating income in the first nine months of fiscal 2018.



Consumer Digital Safety Segment





Three Months Ended December 28, 2018 Compared with Three Months Ended December 29, 2017 



Revenue increased $18 million primarily due to a $21 million increase from our identity and information protection solutions. Revenue per customer increased slightly, whereas customer count decreased slightly. Operating income decreased $5 million primarily due to higher allocated corporate costs, partially offset by higher revenue.



Nine Months Ended December 28, 2018 Compared with Nine Months Ended December 29, 2017 



Revenue increased $136 million due to a $152 million increase from our identity and information protection solutions, offset by a $16 million decrease from our consumer security products. Operating income increased $62 million, primarily due to higher revenue and lower advertising and promotional expense of $44 million, partially offset by higher allocated corporate costs.



LIQUIDITY, CAPITAL RESOURCES AND CASH REQUIREMENTS 



Liquidity



We have historically relied on cash generated from operations, borrowings under credit facilities, issuances of debt, and proceeds from divestitures for our liquidity needs.



As of December 28, 2018, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $2.6 billion, of which $364 million was held by our foreign subsidiaries. Our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments are managed with the objective to preserve principal, maintain liquidity, and generate investment returns. Under the transition tax of the Act, we have treated all previously untaxed foreign earnings as taxable in the U.S. and as a result we recorded a provisional liability for the one-time transition tax, payable in installments through July 2025, of $703 million. The move to a participation exemption system under the Act allows us to make distributions of non-U.S. earnings to the U.S. without incurring additional U.S. federal tax, however these distributions may be subject to applicable state or non-U.S. taxes. We have not recognized deferred income taxes for local country income and withholding taxes that could be incurred on distributions of certain non-U.S. earnings or for outside basis differences in our subsidiaries, because we plan to indefinitely reinvest such earnings and basis differences.



We also have an undrawn credit facility of $1.0 billion which expires in May 2021.



Our principal cash requirements are primarily to meet our working capital needs, support on-going business activities, including the payment of taxes, fund capital expenditures, service existing debt, and invest in business acquisitions. As a part of our plan to deleverage our balance sheet, we may from time to time make optional repayments of our debt obligations, which may include repurchases of our outstanding debt, depending on various factors such as market conditions.



Our capital allocation strategy is to balance driving stockholder returns, managing financial risk, and preserving our flexibility to pursue strategic options, including acquisitions. Historically this has included a quarterly cash dividend, the repayment of debt and the repurchase of our common stock.



Cash flows







Cash from operating activities



Our cash flows for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 reflected a net loss of $3 million adjusted by non-cash items, including amortization and depreciation of $457 million, and stock-based compensation of $265 million, compared to a net income of $1.2 billion adjusted by non-cash items, including amortization and depreciation of $485 million, and stock-based compensation of $448 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2018. Our cash flows in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 also reflected $1.6 billion of discrete deferred income tax benefit related to adjustments of deferred taxes as a result of the enactment of the Act in December 2017 and $821 million in taxes payable as a result of transition taxes. 



Changes in operating assets and liabilities consisted primarily of a decrease of $97 million in accounts receivable in the first nine months of fiscal 2019, reflecting higher collections versus billings.



Cash from investing activities



Our investing activities in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 included capital expenditures of $153 million and payments for acquisitions of $41 million, net of cash acquired, partially offset by cash proceeds from maturities and sales of short-term investments of $119 million, while our investing activities in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 consisted of net cash proceeds of $946 million from the divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions in the third quarter of fiscal 2018, partially offset by purchases of short-term investments of $408 million, net cash payments of $402 million for acquisitions, primarily related to the acquisitions of Fireglass Ltd. and Skycure Ltd. and capital expenditures of $105 million.



Cash from financing activities



Our financing activities in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 primarily consisted of tax withholding payments related to RSUs of $168 million and payment of dividends and dividend equivalents of $169 million, compared to $97 million and $163 million, respectively, in the first nine months of fiscal 2018. In addition, we repaid debt of $2.6 billion and received net proceeds from sales of common stock under employee stock incentive plans of $83 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2018.



Cash requirements



Debt - As of December 28, 2018, our total outstanding principal amount of indebtedness was $5.1 billion, of which $600 million in principal is payable in the next twelve months, summarized as follows. See Note 8 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our debt. 





Prior to the end of fiscal 2019, we plan to prepay our $600 million Senior Term Loan A-2 due August 1, 2019.



Debt covenant compliance. The Senior Term Loan agreements A-2, A-5 and our revolving credit facility contain customary representations and warranties, affirmative and negative covenants, including compliance with specified financial ratios, non-financial covenants for financial reporting, and restrictions on subsidiary indebtedness, liens, stock repurchases and dividends (with exceptions permitting our regular quarterly dividend). Our Convertible Senior Notes agreements and the agreement for our 5.0% Senior Note due April 15, 2025 also require us to file periodic reports with the SEC by specified deadlines. As of December 28, 2018, we were in compliance with all debt covenants.



Dividends. On January 31, 2019, we announced a cash dividend of $0.075 per share of common stock to be paid in March 2019. Any future dividends will be subject to the approval of our Board of Directors. 



Stock repurchases. Under our stock repurchase program, we may purchase shares of our outstanding common stock through accelerated stock repurchase transactions, open market transactions (including through trading plans intended to qualify under Rule 10b5-1 under the Exchange Act) and privately-negotiated transactions. As of December 28, 2018, the remaining balance of our stock repurchase authorization was $800 million. In January 2019, our Board of Directors approved an increase or $500 million to our program, resulting in aggregate authorization of $1.3 billion with no fixed expiration date. We plan to initiate stock repurchases in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019. The timing and actual number of shares repurchased will depend on a variety of factors, including price, general business and market conditions, and other investment opportunities.



Contractual obligations















Due to the uncertainty with respect to the timing of future cash flows associated with our unrecognized tax benefits and other long-term taxes as of December 28, 2018 we are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the period of cash settlement 



with the respective taxing authorities. Therefore, $325 million in long-term income taxes payable has been excluded from the contractual obligations table. See Note 11 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.



Indemnifications



In the ordinary course of business, we may provide indemnifications of varying scope and terms to customers, vendors, lessors, business partners, subsidiaries and other parties with respect to certain matters, including, but not limited to, losses arising out of our breach of agreements or representations and warranties made by us. See Note 16 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our indemnifications.



Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds









Item 6. Exhibits







†This exhibit is being furnished rather than filed, and shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing, in accordance with Item 601 of Regulation S-K.



SIGNATURES



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.







