fls.txt
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) provides a historical and prospective narrative on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.


item1.txt
Environmental Litigation.


item2.txt
This interim MD&A should be read in conjunction with the MD&A in our 2017 Form 10-K.
In October 2015, Corning announced a strategy and capital allocation framework (the “Framework”) that reflects the Company’s financial and operational strengths, as well as its ongoing commitment to increasing shareholder value.
The Framework outlines our leadership priorities and articulates the opportunities we see across our businesses.
Under our Framework, we target generating $26 billion to $30 billion of cash through 2019, returning more than $12.5 billion to shareholders and investing $10 billion to sustain our leadership positions and deliver growth.
Corning is concentrating approximately 80% of its research, development and engineering investment and capital spending on a cohesive set of three core technologies, four manufacturing and engineering platforms, and five market-access platforms.
This strategy allows us to quickly apply our talents and repurpose our assets as needed.
Net sales in the three months ended March 31, 2018 were $2,500 million, compared to $2,375 million in the same period in 2017.
In our Display Technologies segment, we expect pricing to continue to improve, with year-over-year declines reaching mid-single digits, an important milestone toward our goal of stabilizing returns.
We anticipate Corning’s LCD glass volume will grow faster than the expected LCD glass market growth of mid-single digits, driven by the ramp of our Gen 10.5 facility in China.
We anticipate mid-single digit growth in the Life Sciences segment.
·    An increase of $18 million in corporate spending primarily related to new information technology platforms and outside legal fees.
As a percentage of sales, these expenses increased slightly in the first quarter, when compared to the same period last year.
Equity in earnings of affiliated companies decreased by $41 million, driven largely by the absence of a $46 million gain recorded in the first quarter of 2017 resulting from the modification of long-term sales agreements with a customer of HSG.
The translation impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, including the impact of hedges realized in the current quarter, did not materially impact Corning’s consolidated loss before income taxes in the three months ended March 31, 2018 when compared to the same period in 2017.
·    The impact from domestic losses attributable to foreign exchange and losses on translated earnings contracts.
(1)    Refer to Note 6 ((Loss) Earnings per Common Share) to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.
These measures are not prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States (“GAAP”).
See “Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for details on core performance measures.
For a reconciliation of non-GAAP performance measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, please see “Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures” below.
Included in core earnings for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 is net periodic pension expense in the amounts of $12 million and $13 million, respectively.
·    Display Technologies – manufactures glass substrates primarily for flat panel liquid crystal displays.
·    Optical Communications – manufactures carrier and enterprise network components for the telecommunications industry.
·    Specialty Materials – manufactures products that provide more than 150 material formulations for glass, glass ceramics and fluoride crystals to meet demand for unique customer needs.
·    Environmental Technologies – manufactures ceramic substrates and filters for automotive and diesel emission control applications.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Based on that evaluation, we have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of that date.


part2.txt
Environmental Litigation.
See our 2017 Form 10-K, Part I, Item 3.


