fls.txt
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) provides a historical and prospective narrative on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.


item1.txt
Environmental Litigation.


item2.txt
This interim MD&A should be read in conjunction with the MD&A in our 2018 Form 10-K.
The Framework outlines our leadership priorities and articulates the opportunities we see across our businesses.
We designed the Framework to create significant value for shareholders by focusing our portfolio and leveraging our financial strength.
Under our Framework, we target generating $26 billion to $30 billion of cash through 2019, returning more than $12.5 billion to shareholders and investing $10 billion to extend our leadership positions and deliver growth.
Corning is concentrating approximately 80% of its research, development and engineering investment and capital spending on a cohesive set of three core technologies, four manufacturing and engineering platforms, and five market-access platforms.
This strategy allows us to quickly apply our talents and repurpose our assets as needed.
Life Sciences sales increased by $11 million.
Diluted earnings per share increased by $1.27 per share when compared to the first quarter of 2018, driven by the increase in net income described above, coupled with the repurchase of 55.5 million shares of common stock over the last twelve months.
We believe 2019 will be another year of strong growth and investment, consistent with our Strategy and Capital Allocation Framework.
In our Display Technologies segment, we expect full year 2019 price declines to improve further to a mid-single digit percentage.
We anticipate Corning’s display glass volume will grow faster than the expected display glass market growth of mid-single digits, driven by television screen size growth and the ramp of our Gen 10.5 facility in China.
We expect growth in the Specialty Materials segment, the rate of which will depend on the adoption of our innovations.
As a percentage of sales, these expenses decreased by 1% when compared to the same period last year.
Equity in earnings of affiliated companies decreased by $14 million, driven by the absence of a gain recorded in the first quarter of 2018 resulting from a legal settlement.
(1) The impact to income was primarily driven by yen-denominated hedges of translated earnings.
·    The release of foreign valuation allowances on deferred tax assets that are now considered realizable from the restructuring of certain Israeli operations.
Effective January 1, 2019, Corning also began using constant currency reporting for our Environmental Technologies and Life Sciences segments for the euro, Japanese yen and Chinese yuan.
Core performance measures are not prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States (“GAAP”).
These measures are not, and should not be viewed as a substitute for, GAAP reporting measures.
As a result, the Company is unable to provide outlook information on a GAAP basis.
For a reconciliation of non-GAAP performance measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, please see “Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures” below.
The Display Technologies and Optical Communications segments had net income increases of $23 million and $33 million, respectively.
Refer to Note 8 (Employee Retirement Plans) to the consolidated financial statements.
·    Display Technologies – manufactures glass substrates primarily for flat panel displays.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Based on that evaluation, we have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of that date.


part2.txt
Environmental Litigation.
See our 2018 Form 10-K, Part I, Item 3.


