fls.txt
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) provides a historical and prospective narrative on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.


item1.txt
Environmental Litigation.


item2.txt
This interim MD&A should be read in conjunction with the MD&A in our 2017 Form 10-K.
The Framework outlines our leadership priorities and articulates the opportunities we see across our businesses.
We designed the Framework to create significant value for shareholders by focusing our portfolio and leveraging our financial strength.
Under our Framework, we target generating $26 billion to $30 billion of cash through 2019, returning more than $12.5 billion to shareholders and investing $10 billion to extend our leadership positions and deliver growth.
Corning is concentrating approximately 80% of its research, development and engineering investment and capital spending on a cohesive set of three core technologies, four manufacturing and engineering platforms, and five market-access platforms.
This strategy allows us to quickly apply our talents and repurpose our assets as needed.
·    Lower segment net income in the All Other segment, down $8 million, resulting from continued investment in product development.
·    An increase in the translated earnings contract gains of $174 million.
Diluted earnings per share decreased by $0.07 per share, or 8%, when compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2017, driven by the decrease in net income described above, coupled with the repurchase of 76 million shares of common stock over the last twelve months.
In our Display Technologies segment, we expect pricing to continue to improve, with moderate year-over-year declines during the fourth quarter, an important milestone toward our goal of stabilizing returns.
We expect organic growth will improve by a low-teen percentage range driven by strong demand from carrier and enterprise network customers.
We expect mid-to-high single digit percentage growth in the Life Sciences segment.
Gross margin as a percentage of net sales increased by 1% for the three months ended September 30, 2018.
·    Increased acquisition related costs, up $21 million.
As a percentage of sales, these expenses increased slightly when compared to the same period last year.
In the third quarter ending September 30, 2018, equity in earnings of affiliated companies remain relatively consistent with the prior year.
(1)    Refer to Note 6 (Earnings per Common Share) to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.
Additionally, Corning has adopted the use of constant currency reporting for our Display Technologies and Specialty Materials segments for the Japanese yen, South Korean won, Chinese yuan and New Taiwan dollar currencies.
Core performance measures are not prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States (“GAAP”).
As a result, the Company is unable to provide outlook information on a GAAP basis.
For a reconciliation of non-GAAP performance measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, please see “Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures” below.
·    A decrease of $8 million in the All Other segment resulting from increased investment in development projects.
·    Display Technologies – manufactures glass substrates primarily for flat panel displays.
·    Optical Communications – manufactures carrier and enterprise network components for the telecommunications industry.
·    Specialty Materials – manufactures products that provide more than 150 material formulations for glass, glass ceramics and fluoride crystals to meet demand for unique customer needs.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Based on that evaluation, we have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of that date.


part2.txt
Environmental Litigation.
See our 2017 Form 10-K, Part I, Item 3.


