fls.txt
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) provides a historical and prospective narrative on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.


item1.txt
Environmental Litigation.


item2.txt
This interim MD&A should be read in conjunction with the MD&A in our 2017 Form 10-K.
The Framework outlines our leadership priorities and articulates the opportunities we see across our businesses.
We designed the Framework to create significant value for shareholders by focusing our portfolio and leveraging our financial strength.
Under our Framework, we target generating $26 billion to $30 billion of cash through 2019, returning more than $12.5 billion to shareholders and investing $10 billion to extend our leadership positions and deliver growth.
Corning is concentrating approximately 80% of its research, development and engineering investment and capital spending on a cohesive set of three core technologies, four manufacturing and engineering platforms, and five market-access platforms.
This strategy allows us to quickly apply our talents and repurpose our assets as needed.
Net sales in the Display Technologies and Specialty Materials segments increased by $3 million and $6 million, respectively, for the three months ended June 30, 2018.
·    The impact of discrete tax and other tax-related items in the amount of $49 million.
We believe 2018 will be another year of strong growth and investment, consistent with our Strategy and Capital Allocation Framework, and anticipate that segment net sales will reach approximately $11.3 billion, an increase from prior expectations of $11.0 billion.
In our Display Technologies segment, we expect pricing to continue to improve, with year-over-year declines reaching mid-single digits in the third quarter, an important milestone toward our goal of stabilizing returns.
We anticipate Corning’s LCD glass volume will grow faster than the expected LCD glass market growth of mid-single digits, driven by the ramp of our Gen 10.5 facility in China.
·    An increase of $13 million in corporate spending primarily related to new information technology platforms and outside legal fees.
In the first half of 2018, equity in earnings of affiliated companies decreased by $47 million, driven largely by the absence of a $46 million gain recorded in the first quarter of 2017 resulting from the modification of long-term sales agreements with a customer of HSG.
The translation impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, including the impact of hedges realized in the current quarter, did not materially impact Corning’s consolidated income before income taxes in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 when compared to the same periods in 2017.
These measures are not prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States (“GAAP”).
These measures are not, and should not be viewed as a substitute for, GAAP reporting measures.
As a result, the Company is unable to provide outlook information on a GAAP basis.
See “Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for details on core performance measures.
For a reconciliation of non-GAAP performance measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, please see “Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures” below.
·    Display Technologies – manufactures glass substrates primarily for flat panel liquid crystal displays.
·    Optical Communications – manufactures carrier and enterprise network components for the telecommunications industry.
·    Specialty Materials – manufactures products that provide more than 150 material formulations for glass, glass ceramics and fluoride crystals to meet demand for unique customer needs.
·    Environmental Technologies – manufactures ceramic substrates and filters for automotive and diesel emission control applications.
·    Life Sciences – manufactures glass and plastic labware, equipment, media and reagents enabling workflow solutions for scientific applications.
We prepared the financial results for our reportable segments on a basis that is consistent with the manner in which we internally disaggregate financial information to assist the CODM in making internal operating decisions.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Based on that evaluation, we have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of that date.


part2.txt
Environmental Litigation.
See our 2017 Form 10-K, Part I, Item 3.


