 Item 4.
Controls and Procedures.
 The Company’s management, with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), has evaluated the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) or 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act)) as of the end of the period covered by this quarterly report.
A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met.
Based on the evaluation of these controls and procedures required by Rules 13a-15(b) or 15d-15(b) of the Exchange Act, the Company’s management, including the CEO and CFO, have concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this quarterly report, the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by the Company in reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms and to provide reasonable assurance that such information is accumulated and communicated to the Company’s management, including the Company’s CEO and CFO, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
During the period covered by this quarterly report, there have been no changes to the Company’s internal control over financial reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
 Table of Contents
 Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures.
 Not applicable.
 Item 5.
Other Information.
 None.
 Table of Contents
 Item 6.
Exhibits.
 10.1         Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of October 19, 2017, among TESSCO Technologies Incorporated, the additional borrowers party thereto, the Lenders party thereto, and SunTrust Bank, as administrative agent, swingline lender and an issuing bank, together with exhibits and schedules thereto (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 23, 2017).
 10.2         Reaffirmation Agreement dated as of October 19, 2017, among TESSCO Technologies Incorporated, its subsidiaries, the Lenders party thereto, and SunTrust Bank, as administrative agent (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Current report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 23, 2017).
 Table of Contents
 Signature
 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
