 Item 1.
Financial Statements.
 TESSCO Technologies Incorporated
 Consolidated Balance Sheets
 See accompanying notes.
 Table of Contents
 TESSCO Technologies Incorporated
 Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Income
 See accompanying notes.
 Table of Contents
 TESSCO Technologies Incorporated
 Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
 See accompanying notes.
 Table of Contents
 TESSCO Technologies Incorporated
 Notes to Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements
 Note 1.
Description of Business and Basis of Presentation
 TESSCO Technologies Incorporated, a Delaware corporation (TESSCO, we, or the Company), architects and delivers innovative product and value chain solutions to support wireless systems.
The Company provides marketing and sales services, knowledge and supply chain management, product-solution delivery and control systems utilizing extensive internet and information technology.
Approximately 98% of the Company’s sales are made to customers in the United States.
The Company takes orders in several ways, including phone, fax, online and through electronic data interchange.
Almost all of the Company’s sales are made in United States Dollars.
 In management’s opinion, the accompanying interim Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company include all adjustments, consisting only of normal, recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s financial position for the interim periods presented.
These statements are presented in accordance with the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in the Company’s annual financial statements have been omitted from these statements, as permitted under the applicable rules and regulations.
The results of operations presented in the accompanying interim Consolidated Financial Statements are not necessarily representative of operations for an entire year.
The information included in this Form 10-Q should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 1, 2018.
 Note 2.
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements
 In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No.
2016-02, Leases.
This ASU requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets related to the rights and obligations created by those leases.
The ASU also requires additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures related to the nature, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
Early adoption is permitted.
The Company has identified the full population of leases and does not expect the adoption of the standard to have a material impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The standard will be adopted on the first day of the Company’s 2020 fiscal year.
 In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-13, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments which amends the impairment model by requiring entities to use a forward-looking approach based on expected losses rather than incurred losses to estimate credit losses on certain types of financial instruments, including trade receivables.
This may result in the earlier recognition of allowances for losses.
This ASU is effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2019.
The company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and will adopt the standard on the first day of the Company’s 2021 fiscal year.
 In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments.
The new standard will change the classification of certain cash payments and receipts within the
 Table of Contents
cash flow statement.
Specifically, payments for debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs, including third-party costs, premiums paid, and other fees paid to lenders that are directly related to the debt prepayment or debt extinguishment, excluding accrued interest, will now be classified as financing activities.
Previously, these payments were classified as operating expenses.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted, and will be applied retrospectively.
The Company does not expect that the adoption of this new standard, on the first day of the Company’s 2020 fiscal year, will have a material impact on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
 The Company has changed the presentation of its returns reserve.
The amount of expected returns are now recognized as a refund liability within the Accrued Expenses line item of the balance sheet.
This liability represents the obligation to return customer consideration.
The value of the expected goods returned by customers is now recognized as a return asset within the inventory line item of the balance sheet.
The return asset value is initially measured at the former carrying amount in inventory, less any expected costs to recover the goods.
The Company expects products returned by customers to be in new and salable condition, as required by our standard terms and conditions, and therefore impairment of the return asset is unlikely.
Changes to the return liability are recorded as revenue adjustments and changes to the inventory asset are recorded as cost of goods sold.
As of September 30, 2018, the return asset and refund liability amounts were $1.6 million and $2.0 million, respectively.
Prior periods were not adjusted to reflect this change.
 On December 22, 2017 President Trump signed into law the “Tax Cut and Jobs Act” (the “Tax Act”).
In December 2017, the Securities Exchange Commission (SEC) staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
118, Income Tax Accounting Implications of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“SAB 118”), in response to the Tax Act.
SAB 118 allows registrants to include a provisional amount to account for the implications of the Tax Act where a reasonable estimate can be made and requires the completion of the accounting no later than one year from the date of enactment of the Tax Act or December 22, 2018.
In its financial statements for the year ended April 1 2018, the Company included a provisional tax benefit estimate of approximately $0.2 million for the re-measurement of its U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities to a 21% effective tax rate.
We continue to evaluate the implications of the Tax Act and have not made any adjustments to the provisional amounts recorded in the prior year.
Additional tax impacts from the Tax Act will be recorded as they are identified in the measurement period which will not extend past December 22, 2018.
The final impact of the Tax Act may differ from the provisional amounts that have been recognized, due to, among other things, changes in the Company’s interpretation of the Tax Act, legislative or administrative actions to clarify the intent of the statutory language provided that differ from the Company’s current interpretation, or any updates or changes to estimates utilized
 Table of Contents
to calculate the tax impacts, including changes to estimates for permanently disallowed expenses, of the Tax Act.
Additionally, the Company intends to file its 2017 U.S. income tax return in the second half of 2018, which may change our tax basis in temporary differences, and other elements of the income tax effects of the Tax Act estimated as of April 1, 2018.
This may result in an adjustment to the tax provision and be reflected as a re-measurement amount recorded in the financial statements during the quarter in which the U.S. tax return is filed.
 Note 3.
Stock-Based Compensation
 The Company’s selling, general and administrative expenses for the fiscal quarter and six months ended September 30, 2018 includes $384,800 and $705,300, respectively, of non-cash stock-based compensation expense.
The Company’s selling, general and administrative expenses for the fiscal quarter and six months ended September 24, 2017 included $254,300 and $501,900, respectively, of non-cash stock-based compensation expense.
Stock-based compensation expense is primarily related to our Performance Stock Units (PSUs), Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) and Stock Options, granted or outstanding under the Company’s Third Amended and Restated Stock and Incentive Plan (the “1994 Plan”).
 During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Compensation Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors (the “Compensation Committee”) approved the grant of PSUs to select key employees, providing them with the opportunity to earn up to 71,000 shares of the Company’s common stock in the aggregate, depending upon whether and to the extent which certain earnings per share targets and other Company and individual performance metrics are met.
These not-yet-earned PSUs have a one-year measurement period (fiscal 2019), and assuming the performance metrics are met to a sufficient extent, any shares earned at the end of fiscal 2019 will vest 25% and be issued ratably on or about each of May 1 of 2019, 2020, 2021 and 2022, provided that the respective employees remain employed by the Company on each such date.
 The PSUs cancelled during fiscal 2019 primarily related to the fiscal 2018 grant of PSUs, which had a one-year measurement period (fiscal 2018).
These PSUs were cancelled because the applicable fiscal 2018 performance targets were not fully satisfied.
Per the provisions of the 1994 Plan, the shares related to these forfeited and cancelled PSUs were added back to the 1994 Plan and became available for future issuance under the 1994 Plan.
 If all PSUs granted thus far in fiscal 2019 are assumed to be earned on account of the applicable performance metrics being fully met, total unrecognized compensation costs on these PSUs plus all earned but unvested PSU’s would be approximately $1.0 million, as of September 30, 2018, and would be expensed through fiscal 2022.
To the extent the maximum number of PSUs granted in fiscal 2019 are not earned, stock-based compensation related to these awards will differ from this amount.
 Table of Contents
 On August 8, 2017, the Compensation Committee approved the grant of an aggregate of up to 56,000 RSUs to several senior executives.
The number of shares earned by a recipient will be determined by multiplying the number of RSUs covered by the award by a fraction, the numerator of which is the cumulative amount of dividends (regular, ordinary and special) declared and paid, per share, on the Common Stock, over an earnings period of up to four years, and the denominator of which is $3.20.
Subject to earlier issuance upon the occurrence of certain events (as described in the applicable award agreement), any earned shares are issued and distributed to the recipient upon the fourth anniversary of the award date.
As of September 30, 2018, 8,000 of these 56,000 RSUs have been canceled due to employee departures, leaving 48,000 of these RSUs outstanding.
 As of September 30, 2018, there was approximately $0.9 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to all outstanding RSUs, assuming all shares are earned.
Unrecognized compensation costs are expected to be recognized ratably over a weighted average period of approximately three years.
 PSUs and RSUs are expensed based on the grant date fair value, calculated as the closing price of TESSCO common stock as reported by NASDAQ on the date of grant minus the present value of dividends expected to be paid on the common stock before the award vests, because dividends or dividend-equivalent amounts do not accrue and are not paid on unvested PSUs and RSUs.
 The Company now accounts for forfeitures as they occur rather than estimate expected forfeitures.
To the extent that forfeitures occur, stock based compensation related to the restricted awards may be different from the Company’s expectations.
 The value of each option at the date of grant is amortized as compensation expense over the service period.
This occurs without regard to subsequent changes in stock price, volatility, or interest rates over time, provided the option remains outstanding.
 Table of Contents
 The following tables summarize the pertinent information for outstanding options.
 As of September 30, 2018, there was approximately $0.8 million of total unrecognized compensation costs, related to these awards.
These unrecognized compensation costs are expected to be recognized ratably over a period of approximately three years.
 Note 4.
Borrowings Under Revolving Credit Facility
 On June 24, 2016, the Company and its primary operating subsidiaries entered into a Credit Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) with SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent and Lender, and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as a Lender, for a senior asset based secured revolving credit facility of up to $35 million (the “Revolving Credit Facility”).
This replaced our then existing $35 million unsecured revolving credit facility with both SunTrust Bank and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, which had no outstanding principal balance at the time of replacement.
The secured Revolving Credit Facility, as it was initially established, included terms providing for its maturity after five years, on June 24, 2021, and for a $5.0 million sublimit for the issuance of standby letters of credit and a $10.0 million sublimit for swing line loans.
Borrowing Availability under the secured Revolving Credit Facility as it was initially established was determined in part in accordance with a Borrowing Base, defined in the Credit Agreement, generally, as 85% of Eligible Receivables minus Reserves, as those terms were defined in the Credit Agreement.
The Credit Agreement included financial and other covenants, and pursuant to a related Guaranty and Security Agreement by and among the Company, the other Company affiliate borrowers under the Credit Agreement and other subsidiaries of the Company, referred to collectively as the Loan Parties, and SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent, the
 Table of Contents
Loan Parties’ obligations, which included the obligations under the Credit Agreement, were guaranteed by those Loan Parties not otherwise borrowers, and secured by continuing first priority security interests in the Company’s and the other Loan Parties’ (including both borrowers and guarantors) inventory, accounts receivable and deposit accounts, and in all documents, instruments, general intangibles, letter of credit rights and chattel paper, in each case to the extent relating to inventory and accounts, and all proceeds of the foregoing.
The security interests were granted in favor of the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the Lenders party to the Credit Agreement from time to time.
The obligations secured also include certain other obligations of the Loan Parties to the Lenders and their affiliates arising from time to time, relating to swaps, hedges and cash management and other bank products.
 On October 19, 2017, the Company and its primary operating subsidiaries, as co-borrowers, and SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent and Lender, and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as a Lender, entered into an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the “Amended and Restated Credit Agreement”).
Pursuant to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, the Credit Agreement for the secured Revolving Credit Facility was amended and restated in order to, among other things, increase the Company’s borrowing limit from up to $35 million to up to $75 million.
Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined in this and the following three paragraphs have the meanings ascribed to each in the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement.
 In addition to expanding the Company’s borrowing limit, the secured Revolving Credit Facility maturity date was extended to October 19, 2021.
The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement otherwise includes representations, warranties, affirmative and negative covenants (including restrictions) and other terms generally consistent with those applicable to the facility as existing prior to the execution and delivery of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, but with certain modifications.
 Borrowings under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement initially accrue interest from the applicable borrowing date at an Applicable Rate equal to the Eurodollar Rate plus the Applicable Margin.
The Eurodollar Rate is the rate per annum obtained by dividing (i) LIBOR by (ii) a percentage equal to 1.00 minus the Eurodollar Reserve Percentage.
When the Applicable Rate is the Eurodollar Rate plus the Applicable Margin, the Applicable Margin is 1.50% if Average Availability is greater than or equal to $15 million, and 1.75% otherwise.
On September 30, 2018, the interest rate applicable to borrowings under the secured Revolving Credit Facility was 3.61%.
Under certain circumstances, the Applicable Rate is subject to change at the Lenders’ option from the Eurodollar Rate plus the Applicable Margin to the Base Rate plus the Applicable Margin.
Following an Event of Default, in addition to changing the Applicable Rate to the Base Rate plus the Applicable Margin, the Lenders’ may at their option set the Applicable Margin at 0.50% if the Base Rate applies or 1.75% if the Eurodollar Rate applies, and increase the Applicable Rate by an additional 200 basis points.
The Applicable Rate adjusts on the first Business Day of each calendar month.
The Company is required to pay a monthly Commitment Fee on the average daily unused portion of the Revolving Credit Facility provided for pursuant to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, at a per annum rate equal to 0.25%.
 In connection with the entering into of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, the Company and other Loan Parties, executed and delivered to SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent, a Reaffirmation Agreement, pursuant to which the obligations of the Loan Parties under the Guaranty and Security Agreement delivered by them in connection with the secured Revolving Credit Facility as previously existing (including the previously existing guaranty by the Loan Parties not otherwise Borrowers and the previously existing grant by the Company and the other Loan Parties of a continuing first priority security interest in inventory, accounts receivable and deposit accounts, and on all documents, instruments, general intangibles, letter of credit rights, and all proceeds) were ratified and confirmed as respects the Obligations arising under the Amended and Restated Credit Facility from time to time.
 Table of Contents
 Borrowings may be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes, and as further provided in, and subject to the applicable terms of, the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement.
As of September 30, 2018, borrowings under this Revolving Credit Facility totaled $19.7 million and, therefore, the Company had $55.3 million available for borrowing as of September 30, 2018, subject to the Borrowing Base limitation and compliance with the other applicable terms of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, including the covenants referenced above.
The line of credit has a lockbox arrangement associated with it and therefore the outstanding balance is classified as a current liability on our balance sheet.
As of April 1, 2018, borrowings under this Revolving Credit Facility totaled $10.8 million and, therefore, the Company had $64.2 million available on its revolving line of credit facility as of April 1, 2018.
 Note 5.
Income Taxes
 As of September 30, 2018, the Company had a gross amount of unrecognized tax benefits of $116,200 ($91,800 net of federal benefit).
As of April 1, 2018, the Company had a gross amount of unrecognized tax benefits of $112,700 ($87,200 net of federal benefit).
 The Company’s accounting policy with respect to interest and penalties related to tax uncertainties is to classify these amounts as part of the provision for income taxes.
The total amount of interest and penalties related to tax uncertainties recognized in the consolidated statement of income for the first six months of fiscal 2019 was an expense of $19,800 (net of federal benefit).
The cumulative amount included in the consolidated balance sheet as of September 30, 2018 was $265,600 (net of federal benefit).
The total amount of interest and penalties related to tax uncertainties recognized in the consolidated statement of income for the first six months of fiscal 2018 was an expense of $24,200 (net of federal benefit).
The cumulative amount of interest and penalties included as a liability in the consolidated balance sheet as of April 1, 2018 was $250,500 (net of federal benefit).
 Note 6.
Earnings Per Share
 The Company presents the computation of earnings per share (“EPS”) on a basic and diluted basis.
Basic EPS is computed by dividing net income by the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the reported period.
Diluted earnings per share are computed similarly to basic earnings per share, except that the denominator is increased to include the number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding if the potential additional common shares that were dilutive had been issued.
Common shares are excluded from the calculation if they are determined to be anti-dilutive.
At September 30, 2018, stock options with respect to 574,000 shares of common stock were outstanding, of which 50,000 were anti-dilutive.
At September 24, 2017, stock options with respect to 630,000 shares of common stock were outstanding, of which 290,000 were anti-dilutive.
There were no anti-dilutive PSUs or RSUs outstanding as of September 30, 2018 or September 24, 2017, respectively.
 Table of Contents
 Note 7. Business Segments
 The retail segment consists of the retail market which includes retailers, independent dealer agents and carriers.
   ·    Base station infrastructure products are used to build, repair and upgrade wireless telecommunications systems.
Products include base station antennas, cable and transmission lines, small towers, lightning protection devices, connectors, power systems, miscellaneous hardware, and mobile antennas.
Base station infrastructure service offerings include connector installation, custom jumper assembly, site kitting and logistics integration.
   ·    Network systems products are used to build and upgrade computing and internet networks.
Products include fixed and mobile broadband equipment, distributed antenna systems (DAS), wireless networking, filtering systems, two-way radios and security and surveillance products.
This product category also includes training classes, technical support and engineering design services.
   ·    Installation, test and maintenance products are used to install, tune, maintain and repair wireless communications equipment.
Products include sophisticated analysis equipment and various frequency, voltage- and power-measuring devices, as well as an assortment of tools, hardware, GPS, safety and replacement and component parts and supplies required by service technicians.
   ·    Mobile device accessories include cellular phone and data device accessories such as replacement batteries, cases, speakers, mobile amplifiers, power supplies, headsets, mounts, car antennas, music accessories and data and memory cards.
Retail merchandising displays, promotional programs, customized order fulfillment services and affinity-marketing programs, including private label internet sites, complement our mobile devices and accessory product offering.
 Table of Contents
 Table of Contents
 Note 8.
Shares Withheld
 The Company withholds shares of common stock from its employees and directors at their request, equal to the minimum federal and state tax withholdings related to vested PSUs, stock option exercises and vested RSUs.
For the six months ended September 30, 2018 and September 24, 2017, the aggregate value of the shares withheld totaled $111,100 and $64,800, respectively.
 Note 9.
Concentration of Risk
 Table of Contents
 For the fiscal quarters and six months ended September 30, 2018 and September 24, 2017, no customer accounted for more than 10.0% of total consolidated revenues.
 For the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2018, sales of products purchased from the Company’s largest wireless infrastructure supplier and mobile device accessories supplier accounted for 17.0% and 7.8% of consolidated revenue, respectively.
For the fiscal quarter ended September 24, 2017, sales of products purchased from the Company’s largest wireless infrastructure supplier and largest mobile device accessories supplier accounted for 10.3% and 7.9% of consolidated revenue, respectively.
 For the six months ended September 30, 2018, sales of products from the Company’s largest wireless infrastructure supplier and mobile device accessories supplier accounted for 15.6% and 7.9% of consolidated revenue, respectively.
For the six months ended September 24, 2017, sales of products from the Company’s largest wireless infrastructure supplier and largest mobile device accessories supplier accounted for 11.0% and 10.5% of consolidated revenue, respectively.
 Table of Contents
 Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.
 Item 1A.
Risk Factors.
 There have been no material changes from the risk factors as previously disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 1, 2018.
Nevertheless, information that we have disclosed or will disclose from time to time in our public filings (including this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and other periodic reports filed under the Exchange Act) may provide additional data or information relative to our previously disclosed risk factors.
We are not able to identify or control all circumstances that could occur in the future that may adversely affect our business and operating results.
Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on, or that management currently deems immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations.
