Item 4.
Controls and Procedures.
The Company’s management, with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), has evaluated the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) or 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act)) as of the end of the period covered by this quarterly report.
A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s 


 Table of Contents  

objectives will be met.
Based on the evaluation of these controls and procedures required by Rules 13a-15(b) or 15d-15(b) of the Exchange Act, the Company’s management, including the CEO and CFO, have concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this quarterly report, the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by the Company in reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms and to provide reasonable assurance that such information is accumulated and communicated to the Company’s management, including the Company’s CEO and CFO, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
During the period covered by this quarterly report, there have been no changes to the Company’s internal control over financial reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
Table of Contents  

 PART II.
Legal Proceedings.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors.
There have been no material changes from the risk factors as previously disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 1, 2018.
Nevertheless, information that we have disclosed or will disclose from time to time in our public filings (including this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and other periodic reports filed under the Exchange Act) may provide additional data or information relative to our previously disclosed risk factors.
We are not able to identify or control all circumstances that could occur in the future that may adversely affect our business and operating results.
Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on, or that management currently deems immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
None.
Item 3.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities.
None.
Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures.
Not applicable.
Item 5.
Other Information.
None.
Table of Contents  

 Item 6.
Exhibits.
Table of Contents  

 Signature  

 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
