 PART II.
OTHER INFORMATION
 Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.
 Item 1A.
Risk Factors.
 There have been no material changes from the risk factors as previously disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 26, 2017.
Nevertheless, information that we have disclosed or will disclose from time to time in our public filings (including this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and other periodic reports filed under the Exchange Act) may provide additional data or information relative to our previously disclosed risk factors.
We are not able to identify or control all circumstances that could occur in the future that may adversely affect our business and operating results.
Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on, or that management currently deems immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations.
 Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
 None.
 Item 3.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities.
 None.
 Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures.
 Not applicable.
 Item 5.
Other Information.
 None.
 Table of Contents
 Item 6.
Exhibits.
 10.1         Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of October 19, 2017, among TESSCO Technologies Incorporated, the additional borrowers party thereto, the Lenders party thereto, and SunTrust Bank, as administrative agent, swingline lender and an issuing bank, together with exhibits and schedules thereto (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 23, 2017).
 10.2         Reaffirmation Agreement dated as of October 19, 2017, among TESSCO Technologies Incorporated, its subsidiaries, the Lenders party thereto, and SunTrust Bank, as administrative agent (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Current report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 23, 2017).
 Table of Contents
 Signature
 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
