Item 1. Financial Statements
 See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
Solacom Technologies Inc.
On February 28, 2019, we completed our acquisition of Solacom Technologies Inc. ("Solacom"), pursuant to the Arrangement Agreement, dated as of January 7, 2019, by and among Solacom, Comtech and Solar Acquisition Corp., a Canadian corporation and a direct, wholly-owned subsidiary of Comtech. Solacom is a leading provider of Next Generation 911 ("NG-911") solutions for public safety agencies. The acquisition of Solacom was a significant step in our strategy of enhancing our public safety and location technologies. 
The acquisition has an aggregate purchase price for accounting purposes of $32,934,000, of which $27,328,000 was settled in cash and $5,606,000 was settled with the issuance of 208,669 shares of Comtech’s common stock at a volume weighted average stock price of $26.86. The fair value of consideration transferred in connection with this acquisition was $31,489,000, which was net of $1,445,000 of cash acquired. The cash portion of the purchase price was funded principally through borrowings under our Credit Facility. 
We are accounting for the acquisition of Solacom under the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with FASB ASC 805, "Business Combinations" ("ASC 805"). The purchase price was allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, based on their fair value as of February 28, 2019, pursuant to the business combination accounting rules. Acquisition plan expenses were not included as a component of consideration transferred and were expensed in the period incurred. Pro forma financial information is not disclosed, as the acquisition is not material.
The acquired identifiable intangible assets are being amortized on a straight-line basis, which we believe approximates the pattern in which the assets are utilized over their estimated useful lives. The fair value of customer relationships was estimated primarily based on the value of the discounted cash flows that the related intangible asset could be expected to generate in the future. The fair value of technology and trade name was estimated based on the discounted capitalization of royalty expense saved because we now own the assets. Among the factors contributing to the recognition of goodwill, as a component of the purchase price allocation, were synergies in products and technologies and the addition of a skilled, assembled workforce. This goodwill has been assigned to our Commercial Solutions segment based on specific identification and is generally not deductible for income tax purposes.
On April 29, 2019, we completed the acquisition of a state and local government NG-911 business pursuant to the Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of April 29, 2019, by and among General Dynamics Information Technology, Inc., Comtech and Comtech NextGen LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of Comtech. The acquisition of this NG-911 business from GD (the "GD NG-911 business") has a preliminary cash purchase price of $10,000,000 (which is subject to a net working capital adjustment). In connection with this acquisition, we also announced an award of a five-year contract to develop, implement and operate a NG-911 emergency communications system for a Northeastern state. Immediately after our announcement of this acquisition, we hired approximately sixty GD NG-911 employees and completed the integration of this business into our Commercial Solutions segment’s public safety and location technologies product line. The acquisition, contract award and hiring of talented employees are expected to strengthen Comtech’s position in the growing NG-911 solutions market.
We are accounting for the acquisition of this business under the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with FASB ASC 805. The purchase price, which is subject to a pending closing date balance sheet adjustment process under the purchase agreement, was allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, based on their preliminary fair value as of April 29, 2019, pursuant to the business combination accounting rules. Acquisition plan expenses were not included as a component of consideration transferred and were expensed in the period incurred. Pro forma financial information is not disclosed, as the acquisition is not material.
The acquired identifiable intangible assets are being amortized on a straight-line basis, which we believe approximates the pattern in which the assets are utilized over their estimated useful lives. The fair value of customer relationships was estimated based on the value of the discounted cash flows that the related intangible asset could be expected to generate in the future. The fair value of technology was estimated based on the discounted capitalization of royalty expense saved because we now own the assets. The preliminary fair value of other liabilities was based on the difference in discounted cash flows related to remaining performance obligations under a certain acquired contract as compared to current market terms for similar arrangements that a market participant would expect. Other liabilities will be credited against cost of sales over the remaining performance of the contract, which was 5.25 years as of the acquisition date.
Among the factors contributing to the recognition of goodwill, as a component of the purchase price allocation, were synergies in solution offerings and the addition of a skilled, assembled workforce. We currently estimate that approximately $7,100,000 of goodwill resulting from the acquisition will be tax deductible. This goodwill has been assigned to our Commercial Solutions segment based on specific identification.
We are currently finalizing a net working capital adjustment, pursuant to the terms of the purchase agreement. In August 2019, the seller proposed and requested an approximate $2,900,000 upward adjustment to the preliminary purchase price. We do not agree with their proposed adjustment and believe that we are entitled to a reduction of approximately $1,000,000 to the preliminary purchase price. As the parties could not reach an agreement during the stipulated period of time, the matter is now in arbitration. 
The allocation of the preliminary purchase price shown in the above table was based on a valuation and estimates and assumptions that are subject to change within the purchase price allocation period (generally one year from the acquisition date). The primary areas of the purchase price allocation not yet finalized include the purchase price (due to a pending closing date balance sheet adjustment process under the purchase agreement) and residual goodwill.
Subsequent Event
On November 14, 2019, we entered into an agreement to acquire UHP Networks Inc. and its sister company (together, "UHP"), a leading provider of innovative and disruptive satellite ground station solutions, for a purchase price of approximately $40,000,000, of which we anticipate $5,000,000 to be paid in Comtech common stock with the remaining balance payable in cash. The purchase agreement also provides an earn-out up to an additional $10,000,000 payable, at our election, in cash and or shares of Comtech common stock, if certain agreed upon sales milestones are reached in the twelve-month period following completion of the acquisition. We believe that our acquisition of UHP will be a significant step in enhancing our solutions offerings for the satellite ground station market. The transaction is subject to customary closing conditions and is expected to occur late in the second half of our fiscal 2020. 
•FASB ASU No. 2017-11, which provides guidance on the accounting for certain financial instruments with embedded features that result in the strike price of the instrument or embedded conversion option being reduced on the basis of the pricing of future equity offerings (commonly referred to as "down round" features). On August 1, 2019, we adopted this ASU. Our adoption did not have any impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements and disclosures, as we did not have any financial instruments with such "down round" features.
•FASB ASU No. 2018-07, which expands the scope of Topic 718 to include certain share-based payment transactions for acquiring goods and services from nonemployees. On August 1, 2019, we adopted this ASU. Our adoption did not have any impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements and disclosures, as we did not have any outstanding share-based awards with nonemployees that required remeasurement.
•FASB ASU No. 2018-16, which expands the list of eligible U.S. benchmark interest rates permitted in the application of hedge accounting due to broad concerns about the long-term sustainability of the LIBO Rate. This ASU adds the Overnight Index Swap ("OIS") rate, based on the Secured Overnight Financing Rate ("SOFR"), as an eligible U.S. benchmark interest rate. On August 1, 2019, we adopted this ASU. Our adoption did not have any impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements and disclosures, as we are not a party to any such hedging transactions.
For over time contracts using a cost-to-cost measure of progress, we have an estimate at completion ("EAC") process in which management reviews the progress and execution of our performance obligations. This EAC process requires management judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenue and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. Since certain contracts extend over a long period of time, the impact of revisions in revenue and or cost estimates during the progress of work may impact current period earnings through a cumulative adjustment. Additionally, if the EAC process indicates a loss, a provision is made for the total anticipated loss in the period that it becomes evident. Contract revenue and cost estimates for significant contracts are generally reviewed and reassessed at least quarterly.
The cost-to-cost method is principally used to account for contracts in our mission-critical technologies and high-performance transmission technologies product lines and, to a lesser extent, certain location-based and messaging infrastructure contracts in our public safety and location technologies product line. For service-based contracts in our public safety and location technologies product line, we recognize revenue over time. These services are typically recognized as a series of services performed over the contract term using the straight-line method, or based on our customers’ actual usage of the networks and platforms which we provide.
Point in time accounting is principally applied to contracts in our satellite ground station technologies product line (which includes satellite modems, solid-state and traveling wave tube amplifiers) and certain contracts for our solid-state, high-power amplifiers in our high-performance transmission technologies product line. Point in time accounting is also applied to certain contracts in our mission-critical technologies product line. The contracts related to these product lines do not meet the requirements for over time revenue recognition because our customers cannot utilize the equipment for its intended purpose during any phase of our manufacturing process; customers do not simultaneously receive and or consume the benefits provided by our performance; customers do not control the asset (i.e., prior to delivery, customers cannot direct the use of the asset, sell or exchange the equipment, etc.); and, although many of our contracts have termination for convenience clauses and or an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, our performance creates an asset with an alternative use through the point of delivery.
When allocating the contract’s transaction price, we consider each distinct performance obligation. For contracts with multiple performance obligations, we allocate the contract’s transaction price to each performance obligation using our best estimate of the standalone selling price of each distinct good or service in the contract. We determine standalone selling price based on the price at which the performance obligation is sold separately. If the standalone selling price is not observable through past transactions, we estimate the standalone selling price taking into account available information such as market conditions, including geographic or regional specific factors, competitive positioning, internal costs, profit objectives and internally approved pricing guidelines related to the performance obligations.
The timing of revenue recognition, billings and collections results in receivables, unbilled receivables and contract liabilities on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. Under typical payment terms for our contracts accounted for over time, amounts are billed as work progresses in accordance with agreed-upon contractual terms, either at periodic intervals (e.g., monthly) or upon achievement of contractual milestones. For certain contracts with provisions that are intended to protect customers in the event we do not satisfy our performance obligations, billings occur subsequent to revenue recognition, resulting in unbilled receivables. Under ASC 606, unbilled receivables constitute contract assets. There were no material impairment losses recognized on contract assets during the three months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. On large long-term contracts, and for contracts with international customers that do not do business with us regularly, payment terms typically require advanced payments and deposits. Under ASC 606, payments received from customers in excess of revenue recognized to date results in a contract liability. These contract liabilities are not considered to represent a significant financing component of the contract because we believe these cash advances and deposits are generally used to meet working capital demands which can be higher in the earlier stages of a contract. Also, advanced payments and deposits provide us with some measure of assurance that the customer will perform on its obligations under the contract. Under the typical payment terms for our contracts accounted for at a point in time, costs are accumulated in inventory until the time of billing, which generally coincides with revenue recognition. Of the contract liability balance at July 31, 2019 and August 1, 2018, $18,609,000 and $23,127,000 was recognized as revenue during the three months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
We recognize the incremental costs to obtain or fulfill a contract as an expense when incurred if the amortization period of the asset is one year or less. Incremental costs to obtain or fulfill contracts with an amortization period greater than one year were not material. 
Using the fair value hierarchy described in FASB ASC 820 "Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures," we valued our cash and cash equivalents using Level 1 inputs that were based on quoted market prices.
Unbilled receivables as of October 31, 2019 relate to contracts-in-progress for which revenue has been recognized, but for which we have not yet earned the right to bill the customer for work performed to date. Under ASC 606, unbilled receivables constitute contract assets. Management estimates that substantially all amounts not yet billed at October 31, 2019 will be billed and collected within one year.
As of October 31, 2019 and July 31, 2019, except for the U.S. government (and its agencies), which represented 35.4% and 27.8%, respectively, of total accounts receivable, there were no other customers which accounted for greater than 10.0% of total accounts receivable.
As of October 31, 2019 and July 31, 2019, the amount of inventory directly related to long-term contracts (including contracts-in-progress) was $4,661,000 and $4,053,000, respectively, and the amount of inventory related to contracts from third-party commercial customers who outsource their manufacturing to us was $1,395,000 and $1,513,000, respectively.
Accrued warranty obligations as of October 31, 2019 relate to estimated liabilities for assurance-type warranty coverage that we provide to our customers. We generally provide warranty coverage for some of our products for a period of at least one year from the date of delivery. We record a liability for estimated warranty expense based on historical claims, product failure rates, consideration of contractual obligations, future costs to resolve software issues and other factors. Some of our product warranties are provided under long-term contracts, the costs of which are incorporated into our estimates of total contract costs. 
On August 1, 2018, in connection with our adoption of ASC 606, $1,679,000 of accrued warranty obligations presented in the above table were reclassified to contract liabilities, as they represented deferred revenue related to service-type warranty performance obligations.
During the three months ended October 31, 2018, we took steps to improve our future operating results and successfully consolidated our Government Solutions segment’s manufacturing facility located in Tampa, Florida with another facility that we maintain in Orlando, Florida. In doing so, during the three months ended October 31, 2018, we recorded $1,373,000 of facility exit costs in selling, general and administrative expenses in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. As discussed further in Note (12) - "Leases," on August 1, 2019, we adopted Topic 842 and, as required by the new standard, reclassified $568,000 of estimated facility exit costs to the current portion of operating lease liabilities. 
During the second quarter of fiscal 2019, we began an evaluation and repositioning of our public safety and location technologies solutions in order to focus on providing higher margin solution offerings. To date, we have ceased offering certain solutions, have worked with customers to wind-down certain legacy contracts and have not renewed certain contracts. In connection with this ongoing evaluation and repositioning, during the three months ended October 31, 2019, we recorded $230,000 of estimated contract settlement costs in our Commercial Solutions segment.
On October 31, 2018, we entered into a First Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the "Credit Facility") with a syndicate of lenders, replacing our prior Credit Agreement dated as of February 23, 2016 (as amended by that certain First Amendment, dated as of June 6, 2017 (the "Prior Credit Facility")). In connection with the establishment of our new Credit Facility, during the three months ended October 31, 2018, we wrote-off $3,217,000 of deferred financing costs primarily related to the Term Loan Facility portion of our Prior Credit Facility and capitalized deferred financing costs of $1,813,000 related to the new Credit Facility.
The Credit Facility matures on October 31, 2023 (the "Revolving Maturity Date"). If we issue new unsecured debt in excess of $5,000,000 with a maturity date that is less than 91 days from October 31, 2023, the Revolving Maturity Date would automatically accelerate so that it would be 91 days earlier than the maturity date of the new unsecured debt.
The proceeds of the Credit Facility were used, in part, to repay in full the outstanding borrowings under the Prior Credit Facility, and additional proceeds of the Credit Facility are expected to be used by us for working capital and other general corporate purposes. As of October 31, 2019, the amount outstanding under our Credit Facility was $169,000,000, which is reflected in the non-current portion of long-term debt on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. At October 31, 2019, we had $2,632,000 of standby letters of credit outstanding under our Credit Facility related to guarantees of future performance on certain customer contracts and no outstanding commercial letters of credit. During the three months ended October 31, 2019, we had outstanding balances under the Credit Facility ranging from $142,000,000 to $169,000,000.
As of October 31, 2019, total net deferred financing costs related to the Credit Facility were $2,943,000 and are being amortized over the term of our Credit Facility through October 31, 2023.
Interest expense related to our credit facilities, including amortization of deferred financing costs, recorded during the three months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018, was $1,753,000 and $2,542,000, respectively. The amount for the three months ended October 31, 2019 relates to our new Credit Facility; whereas, the amount for the three months ended October 31, 2018 relates to our Prior Credit Facility. During the three months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018, our blended interest rate approximated 4.70% and 6.00%, respectively.
As of October 31, 2019, our Secured Leverage Ratio was 1.75x TTM Adjusted EBITDA compared to the maximum allowable Secured Leverage Ratio of 3.75x TTM Adjusted EBITDA. Our Interest Expense Coverage Ratio as of October 31, 2019 was 13.07x TTM Adjusted EBITDA compared to the Minimum Interest Expense Coverage Ratio of 3.25x TTM Adjusted EBITDA. Given our expected future business performance, we anticipate maintaining compliance with the terms and financial covenants in our Credit Facility for the foreseeable future.
The obligations under the Credit Facility are guaranteed by certain of our domestic subsidiaries (the "Guarantors"). As collateral security under the Credit Facility and the guarantees thereof, we and the Guarantors have granted to the administrative agent, for the benefit of the lenders, a lien on, and first priority security interest in, substantially all of our tangible and intangible assets.
On December 6, 2018, we entered into the first amendment to the Credit Facility. The purpose of the amendment is to provide for a mechanism to replace the LIBO Rate for Eurodollar borrowings with an alternative benchmark interest rate, should the LIBO Rate generally become unavailable in the future on an other-than-temporary basis.
Capitalized terms used but not defined herein have the meanings set forth for such terms in the Credit Facility and the Prior Credit Facility, which have been documented and filed with the SEC.
On August 1, 2019, we adopted ASU No. 2016-02 - Leases (Topic 842), which requires the recognition of lease rights and obligations as assets and liabilities on the balance sheet. Previously, operating leases were not recognized on the balance sheet. As we elected the modified retrospective adoption method, prior-period information was not restated. We also elected the transition package of practical expedients available in the standard, which permits us to not reassess under the new standard our prior conclusions about lease identification, classification and initial direct costs. As part of our adoption, however, we did not elect to use the hindsight or land easements practical expedients.
Our leases historically relate to the leasing of facilities and equipment. We determine at inception whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease and whether the lease should be classified as an operating or a financing lease. At lease commencement, we recognize an ROU asset and lease liability based on the present value of the future lease payments over the estimated lease term. We have elected to not recognize an ROU asset or lease liability for any leases with terms of twelve months or less. Instead, for such short-term leases, we recognize lease expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Certain of our leases include options to extend the term of the lease or to terminate the lease early. When it is reasonably certain that we will exercise a renewal option or will not exercise a termination option, we include the impact of exercising or not exercising such option, respectively, in the estimate of the lease term. As our lease agreements do not explicitly state the discount rate implicit in the lease, we use our incremental borrowing rate ("IBR") on the commencement date to calculate the present value of future lease payments. Such IBR represents our estimated rate of interest to borrow on a collateralized basis over a term commensurate with the expected lease term.
Some of our leases include payments that are based on the Consumer Price Index ("CPI") or other similar indices. These variable lease payments are included in the calculation of the ROU asset and lease liability using the index as of the lease commencement date. Other variable lease payments, such as common area maintenance, property taxes, and usage-based amounts, are required by Topic 842 to be excluded from the ROU asset and lease liability and expensed as incurred. In addition to the present value of the future lease payments, the calculation of the ROU asset would also consider, to the extent applicable, any deferred rent upon adoption, lease pre-payments or initial direct costs of obtaining the lease (e.g., such as commissions).
For all classes of leased assets, we elected the practical expedient to not separate lease components (i.e., the actual item being leased, such as the facility or piece of equipment) from non-lease components (i.e., the distinct elements of a contract not related to securing the use of the leased asset, such as common area maintenance and consumable supplies). 
Certain of our facility lease agreements (which are classified as operating leases) contain rent holidays or rent escalation clauses. For rent holidays and rent escalation clauses during the lease term, we record rental expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. As of October 31, 2019, none of our leases contained a residual value guarantee and covenants included in our lease agreements are customary for the types of facilities and equipment being leased. 
We lease our Melville, New York production facility from a partnership controlled by our President, CEO and Chairman. Lease payments made during the three months ended October 31, 2019 were $160,000. The current lease provides for our use of the premises as they exist through December 2021 with an option for an additional ten years. The annual rent of the facility for calendar year 2020 is $657,000 and is subject to customary adjustments. We have a right of first refusal in the event of a sale of the facility.
As of October 31, 2019, we do not have any rental commitments that have not commenced.
Overview
Stock-based compensation for equity-classified awards is measured at the date of grant, based on an estimate of the fair value of the award and is generally expensed over the vesting period of the award. At October 31, 2019, unrecognized stock-based compensation of $11,885,000, net of estimated forfeitures of $1,085,000, is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 3.3 years. Total stock-based compensation capitalized and included in ending inventory at both October 31, 2019 and July 31, 2019 was $48,000. There are no liability-classified stock-based awards outstanding as of October 31, 2019 or July 31, 2019. 
ESPP stock-based compensation expense primarily relates to the 15% discount offered to participants in the ESPP. During the three months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018, we recorded benefits of $310,000 and $130,000, respectively, which primarily represents the recoupment of certain share units.
Stock Options
Stock options outstanding as of October 31, 2019 have exercise prices ranging from $20.90 - $33.94, representing the fair market value of our common stock on the date of grant, a contractual term of five or ten years and a vesting period of three or five years. The total intrinsic value relating to stock options exercised during the three months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018 was $305,000 and $561,000, respectively. 
During the three months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018, at the election of certain holders of vested stock options, 40,860 and 72,830, respectively, of stock options were net settled upon exercise. As a result, 4,764 and 9,345 shares of our common stock were issued during the three months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, net of shares retained to satisfy the exercise price and minimum statutory tax withholding requirements.
Performance Shares, RSUs, Restricted Stock and Share Unit Awards
The total intrinsic value relating to fully-vested awards settled during the three months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018 was $5,806,000 and $4,210,000, respectively.
The performance shares granted to employees since fiscal 2014 principally vest over a three-year performance period, if pre-established performance goals are attained or as specified pursuant to the Plan and related agreements. As of October 31, 2019, the number of outstanding performance shares included in the above table, and the related compensation expense prior to consideration of estimated pre-vesting forfeitures, assume achievement of the pre-established goals at a target level. 
RSUs and restricted stock granted to non-employee directors prior to July 31, 2019 have a vesting period of three years and are convertible into shares of our common stock generally at the time of termination, on a one-for-one basis for no cash consideration, or earlier under certain circumstances. RSUs and restricted stock granted to non-employee directors after July 31, 2019 have a vesting period of five years. RSUs granted to employees have a vesting period of five years and are convertible into shares of our common stock, generally at the time of vesting, on a one-for-one basis for no cash consideration. 
Share units granted prior to July 31, 2017 were vested when issued and are convertible into shares of our common stock, generally at the time of termination, on a one-for-one basis for no cash consideration, or earlier under certain circumstances. Share units granted on or after July 31, 2017 were granted to certain employees in lieu of non-equity incentive compensation and are convertible into shares of our common stock on the one-year anniversary of the respective grant date. Cumulatively through October 31, 2019, 431,142 share units granted have been settled. 
The fair value of performance shares, RSUs, restricted stock and share units is determined using the closing market price of our common stock on the date of grant, less the present value of any estimated future dividend equivalents such awards are not entitled to receive and an applicable estimated discount for any post vesting transfer restrictions. RSUs, performance shares and restricted stock granted since fiscal 2013 are entitled to dividend equivalents unless forfeited before vesting occurs. Share units granted since fiscal 2014 are entitled to dividend equivalents while the underlying shares are unissued. 
Dividend equivalents are subject to forfeiture, similar to the terms of the underlying stock-based awards, and are payable in cash generally at the time of settlement of the underlying award. During the three months ended October 31, 2019, we accrued $56,000 of dividend equivalents (net of forfeitures) and paid out $285,000. Accrued dividend equivalents were recorded as a reduction to retained earnings. As of October 31, 2019 and July 31, 2019, accrued dividend equivalents were $548,000 and $777,000, respectively. 
With respect to the actual settlement of stock-based awards for income tax reporting, during the three months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018, we recorded income tax benefits of $612,000 and $457,000, respectively, which primarily represent the net excess income tax benefits upon settlement of stock-based awards during each of the respective periods.
Reportable operating segments are determined based on Comtech’s management approach. The management approach, as defined by FASB ASC 280 "Segment Reporting" is based on the way that the CODM organizes the segments within an enterprise for making decisions about resources to be allocated and assessing their performance. Our CODM, for purposes of FASB ASC 280, is our Chief Executive Officer and President.
Our Commercial Solutions segment offers satellite ground station technologies (such as modems and amplifiers) and public safety and location technologies (such as 911 call routing and mapping solutions) to commercial customers and smaller government customers, such as state and local governments. This segment also serves certain large government customers (including the U.S. government) that have requirements for off-the-shelf commercial equipment.
Our Government Solutions segment provides mission-critical technologies (such as tactical satellite-based networks and ongoing support for complicated communications networks) and high-performance transmission technologies (such as troposcatter systems and solid-state, high-power amplifiers) to large government end-users (including those of foreign countries), large international customers and domestic prime contractors.
Interest expense in the tables above relate to our Prior Credit Facility and new Credit Facility, and includes the amortization of deferred financing costs. In addition, during the three months ended October 31, 2018, we recorded a $3,217,000 loss from the write-off of deferred financing costs primarily related to the Term Loan Facility portion of our Prior Credit Facility. See Note (11) - "Credit Facility" for further discussion.
Intersegment sales for the three months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018 by the Commercial Solutions segment to the Government Solutions segment were $1,899,000 and $8,540,000, respectively. There were nominal sales by the Government Solutions segment to the Commercial Solutions segment for these periods. All intersegment sales are eliminated in consolidation and are excluded from the tables above.
As discussed further in Note (2) -"Acquisitions," the goodwill resulting from the acquisitions of Solacom and the GD NG-911 business was based upon valuation and estimates and assumptions that are subject to change within the purchase price allocation period (generally one year from the acquisition date).
In accordance with FASB ASC 350 "Intangibles - Goodwill and Other," we perform a goodwill impairment analysis at least annually (in the first quarter of each fiscal year), unless indicators of impairment exist in interim periods. If we fail the quantitative assessment of goodwill impairment ("quantitative assessment"), we would be required to recognize an impairment loss equal to the amount that a reporting unit's carrying value exceeded its fair value; however, any loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.
In performing the quantitative assessment, we estimated the fair value of each of our reporting units using a combination of the income and market approaches. The income approach, also known as the discounted cash flow ("DCF") method, utilizes the present value of cash flows to estimate fair value. The future cash flows for our reporting units were projected based on our estimates, at that time, of future revenues, operating income and other factors (such as working capital and capital expenditures). For purposes of conducting our impairment analysis, we assumed revenue growth rates and cash flow projections that are below our actual long-term expectations. The discount rates used in our DCF method were based on a weighted-average cost of capital ("WACC") determined from relevant market comparisons, adjusted upward for specific reporting unit risks (primarily the uncertainty of achieving projected operating cash flows). A terminal value growth rate was applied to the final year of the projected period, which reflects our estimate of stable, perpetual growth. We then calculated a present value of the respective cash flows for each reporting unit to arrive at an estimate of fair value under the income approach. Under the market approach, we estimated a fair value based on comparable companies' market multiples of revenues and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and factored in a control premium. Finally, we compared our estimates of fair values to our August 1, 2019 total public market capitalization and assessed implied control premiums based on our common stock price of $29.54 as of August 1, 2019. 
Amortization expense for the three months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018 was $5,206,000 and $4,289,000, respectively.
In December 2018, we filed a $400,000,000 shelf registration statement with the SEC for the sale of various types of securities, including debt. The shelf registration was declared effective by the SEC as of December 14, 2018. To date, we have not issued any securities pursuant to our $400,000,000 shelf registration statement. 
Stock Repurchase Program
Dividends 
Since September 2010, we have paid quarterly dividends pursuant to an annual targeted dividend amount that was established by our Board of Directors. On September 24, 2019, our Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.10 per common share, which was paid on November 15, 2019. On December 4, 2019, our Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.10 per common share, payable on February 14, 2020 to stockholders of record at the close of business on January 15, 2020. 
Future dividends remain subject to compliance with financial covenants under our Credit Facility as well as Board approval. 
A customer that purchased a TCS 911 call handling software solution in December 2014 (which was more than one year prior to our acquisition of TCS) (the "TCS Legacy Customer") informed us in fiscal 2019 that it experienced several network outages and that it would seek indemnification for any claims made against it as a result of such outages. 
In connection with these outages, the TCS Legacy Customer informed us that it believed certain communication failover redundancies promised to it by former senior management of TCS were never completed and had originally demanded that we refund to it all amounts previously paid to us under the contract, which through October 31, 2019 exceeded $14,000,000. In response to such claim, we engaged legal counsel to review the claims made by our customer. 
In September 2019, the customer filed a lawsuit in the Sixth Judicial Circuit Court of the State of South Dakota alleging, among other things, our failure to provide them with certain system redundancies. We believe that TCS has complied with its contractual requirements, that the customer's allegations are baseless, and that it is not entitled to a return of any amounts previously paid to us under the contract. Our contract to provide services to this customer expires in December 2019 and the amount of annual revenue we generate from this customer is immaterial. 
In October 2014, we disclosed to the U.S. Department of the Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets Control ("OFAC") that we learned during a self-assessment of our export transactions that a shipment of modems sent to a Canadian customer by Comtech EF Data Corp. was incorporated into a communication system, the ultimate end user of which was the Sudan Civil Aviation Authority. The sales value of this equipment was approximately $288,000. At the time of shipment, OFAC regulations prohibited U.S. persons from doing business directly or indirectly with Sudan. In late 2015, OFAC issued an administrative subpoena seeking information about the disclosed transaction. We responded to the subpoena, including alerting OFAC to Comtech’s repair of three modems for a customer in Lebanon who may have rerouted the modems from Lebanon to Sudan without the required U.S. licensing authorization. In September 2018, Comtech agreed to enter into a Tolling Agreement with OFAC, which extended the statute of limitations in this matter through December 31, 2019. The Tolling Agreement was shortly followed by a second administrative subpoena seeking additional information about the disclosed transaction. In December 2018, Comtech responded to a second administrative subpoena from OFAC, answering the questions it posed and providing all the documents it sought. In November 2019, Comtech agreed to enter into a second Tolling Agreement with OFAC, which extends the statute of limitations in this matter through June 30, 2020. U.S. sanctions with respect to Sudan were revoked in 2017 and we are in the process of responding to certain additional questions that OFAC asked of us based on its review. Consistent with the revocation of the Sudan Sanction Regulations ("SSR"), shipments to the Sudan Civil Aviation Authority by U.S. persons are now permissible. We are not able to predict whether OFAC will take any enforcement action against us in light of the revocation of the SSR. If OFAC determines that we have violated U.S. trade sanctions, civil and criminal penalties could apply, and we may suffer reputational harm. Even though we take precautions to avoid engaging in transactions that may violate U.S. trade sanctions, those measures may not be effective in every instance.
In May 2018, we were informed by the Office of Export Enforcement ("OEE") of the Department of Commerce ("DoC") that it was forwarding to the OEE's Office of Chief Counsel, the results of its audit of international shipments by Comtech Xicom Technology, Inc. for further review and possible determination of an administrative penalty. We fully cooperated with the OEE in their audit and, based on our self-assessment of the approximately 7,800 individual transactions audited, have determined that six (6) transactions may not have been fully in compliance with the Export Administration Regulations ("EAR"). These six (6) items, for which export licenses were not obtained, were either spares or repaired power amplifier subassembly components valued at less than $100,000 (in aggregate) and were shipped to Brazil, Italy, Russia, Thailand and the United Arab Emirates. The EAR provides an exception to the requirement to obtain an export license for the replacement of a defective or damaged component. During our self-assessment, we determined that we inadvertently did not obtain export licenses for the spares or evidence of the return or destruction of the defective or damaged components necessary to authorize our use of the export license exception for the replacements. Since discovering this issue, we have implemented additional controls and procedures and have increased awareness of these specific export requirements throughout the Company to help avoid similar occurrences in the future. Administrative penalties under the EAR can range from a warning letter to a denial of export privileges. A civil monetary penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in the Export Administration Act ("EAA") may be imposed for each violation, and in the event that any provision of the EAR is continued by any other authority, the maximum monetary civil penalty for each violation shall be that provided by such other authority. Administrative penalties under the EAR are currently determined pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act ("IEEPA"), which can reach the greater of twice the amount of the transaction that is the basis of the violation or approximately $300,000 per violation. We have not recorded an accrual related to a possible administrative penalty and continue to work cooperatively with the OEE.
Item 1. Legal Proceedings
See "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (19) - Legal Proceedings and Other Matters," of this Form 10-Q for information regarding legal proceedings and other matters. 
Item 1A. Risk Factors
