fls.txt



item1.txt
Additionally in connection with a 2016 acquisition, there is upfront cash consideration and possible future contingent earn-out payments held in an escrow account contingent upon the acquired business achieving the minimum specified annual net revenue thresholds, which if not achieved would result in said funds being returned to Ebix.
The Company also holds fixed deposits pledged with banks for issuance of bank guarantees and letters of credit related to India operations.
•Level 2 Inputs - Other than quoted prices included in Level 1 inputs, which are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the asset or liability.
•Short-term investments (commercial bank certificates of deposits and mutual funds), for which the fair values are measured as a Level 1 instrument.
•Contingent accrued earn-out business acquisition consideration liabilities for which fair values are measured as Level 3 instruments.
These contingent consideration liabilities were recorded at fair value on the acquisition date and are re-measured quarterly based on the then assessed fair value and adjusted if necessary.
As the fair value measure is based on significant inputs that are not observable in the market, they are categorized as Level 3.
The Company applies these terms in its calculation and determination of the fair value of contingent earn out liabilities for purchased businesses as part of the related valuation and purchase price allocation exercise for the corresponding acquired assets and liabilities.
Revenue Recognition—The Company derives its revenues primarily from subscription and transaction fees pertaining to services delivered over our exchanges or from our ASP platforms, fees for risk compliance solution services, and fees for software development projects including associated fees for consulting, implementation, training, and project management provided to customers with installed systems and applications.
For arrangements that include multiple performance obligations, the Company allocates consideration based on their relative fair values.These types of arrangements include obligations pertaining to software licenses, system set-up, and professional services associated with product customization or modification.
For arrangements where control is transferred over time, such as software development arrangements involving significant customization, modification, or production, an input or output method is applied that represents a faithful depiction of the progress towards completion of the performance obligation.
For arrangements that include variable consideration, the Company assesses whether any amounts should be constrained.
The transaction-based fees are primarily based on a percentage of payment value processed for solutions such as retail and corporate payments, domestic money transfers, and general purpose reloadable cards.
Gift voucher revenue is recognized at full purchase value at time of sale with the corresponding cost of vouchers recorded under direct expenses.
The Company records contract liabilities when it receives payments or invoices in advance of the performance of services.
The remaining portion of the contract liabilities balance consists primarily of customer-specific customizations that are not distinct from related performance obligations that transfer over time.
Accounts Receivable and the Allowance for Doubtful Accounts—Reported accounts receivable include $131.2 million of trade receivables stated at invoice billed amounts and $31.0 million of unbilled receivables (net of the estimated allowance for doubtful accounts receivable in the amount of $6.6 million).


item2.txt
As used herein, the terms “Ebix,” “the Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” refer to Ebix, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries as a combined entity, except where it is clear that the terms mean only Ebix, Inc.
The Company’s technology vision is to focus on the convergence of all channels, processes and entities in a manner such that data seamlessly flows once a data entry has initially been made.
Ebix strives to work collaboratively with clients to develop innovative technology strategies and solutions that address specific business challenges and requirements.
In these operating offices, Ebix employs insurance and technology professionals who provide products, services, support and consultancy to thousands of customers across six continents.
The Company derives its revenues primarily from subscription and transaction fees pertaining to services delivered over our exchanges or from our ASP platforms, fees for business process outsourcing services, and fees for software development projects including associated fees for consulting, implementation, training, and project management provided to customers with installed systems, e-governance solutions to governmental agencies in the health and education sectors, as well as foreign exchange, remittance (both inward and outward) and related services, including travel, from our new financial exchange.
•Revenue billed to existing clients from the cross selling of acquired products has been assigned to the acquired section of our business.
Latin America's revenues decreased by $1.4 million primarily due to decreased professional services combined with a $646 thousand decrease due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
Australia's revenues decreased by $862 thousand primarily due to a changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
Sales and marketing expenses increased $2.1 million or 53%, to $6.1 million in the first quarter of 2019 as compared to $4.0 million in the first quarter of 2018 primarily due to costs associated with our India operations, and with the Company's 2018 India acquisitions in the travel and foreign exchange sectors.


item3.txt
However, the Company has operations in Australia, India (specifically EbixCash), New Zealand, Great Britain, Canada, Brazil, Singapore, Philippines, Indonesia, and United Arab Emirates where we conduct transactions in the local currencies of each of these locations.


item4.txt



part2.txt
filed a Verified Second Amended and Supplemented Class Action and Derivative Complaint (the “Second Amended Complaint”).


