fls.txt



item1.txt
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019 there were 662 shares, totaling $36 thousand, used to satisfy exercise costs and the recipients' income tax obligations related to stock options exercised and restricted stock vesting.
Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries Description of Business— Ebix, Inc., and its subsidiaries, (“Ebix” or the “Company”) is a leading international supplier of on-demand infrastructure exchanges to the insurance, financial, and healthcare industries.
The Company's products feature fully customizable and scalable on-demand software designed to streamline the way insurance professionals manage distribution, marketing, sales, customer service, and accounting activities.
With a "Phygital” strategy that combines physical distribution outlets in many Association of Southwest Asian Nations ("ASEAN") countries to an Omni-channel online digital platform, the Company’s EbixCash Financial exchange portfolio of services encompasses dominance in the areas of domestic and international money remittance, foreign exchange ("Forex"), travel, pre-paid gift cards, utility payments, lending, and wealth management in India and other Asian markets.
The Company has its headquarters in Johns Creek, Georgia and also conducts operating activities in Australia, Canada, India, New Zealand, Singapore, United Kingdom, Brazil, Philippines, Indonesia, Thailand and United Arab Emirates.
Restricted Cash - The carrying value of our restricted cash in current assets was $18.2 million and $8.3 million at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.
The September 30, 2019 balance consists of upfront cash consideration and possible future contingent earn-out payments held in an escrow account in connection with a 2016 business acquisition.
The Company also holds fixed deposits pledged with banks for issuance of bank guarantees and letters of credit related to its India operations.
•Level 2 Inputs - Other than quoted prices included in Level 1 inputs, which are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the asset or liability.
•Short-term investments (commercial bank certificates of deposits and mutual funds), for which the fair values are measured as a Level 1 instrument.
•Contingent accrued earn-out business acquisition consideration liabilities for which fair values are measured as Level 3 instruments.
These contingent consideration liabilities were recorded at fair value on the acquisition date and are re-measured quarterly based on the then assessed fair value and adjusted if necessary.
As the fair value measure is based on significant inputs that are not observable in the market, they are categorized as Level 3. and determination of the fair value of contingent earn-out liabilities for purchased businesses.
EbixCash revenues are primarily derived from consideration paid by customers to transfer or exchange money.
In the majority of EbixCash’s foreign exchange and payment services, EbixCash makes payments to the recipient to satisfy its performance obligation to the customer, and therefore, EbixCash recognizes revenue on foreign exchange and payment services when this performance obligation has been fulfilled.


item2.txt
As used herein, the terms “Ebix,” “the Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” refer to Ebix, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries as a combined entity, except where it is clear that the terms mean only Ebix, Inc.
Ebix, Inc., and its subsidiaries, (“Ebix” or the “Company”) is a leading international supplier of on-demand infrastructure exchanges to the insurance, financial, and healthcare industries.
In the insurance sector, the Company’s main focus is to develop and deploy a wide variety of insurance and reinsurance exchanges on an on-demand basis, while also providing software-as-a-service ("SaaS") enterprise solutions in the area of customer relationship management ("CRM"), front-end and back-end systems, outsourced administrative and risk compliance.
The Company's products feature fully customizable and scalable on-demand software designed to streamline the way insurance professionals manage distribution, marketing, sales, customer service, and accounting activities.
With a "Phygital” strategy that combines physical distribution outlets in many Association of Southwest Asian Nations ("ASEAN") countries to an Omni-channel online digital platform, the Company’s EbixCash Financial exchange portfolio of services encompasses dominance in the areas of domestic and international money remittance, foreign exchange ("Forex"), travel, pre-paid gift cards, utility payments, lending, and wealth management in India and other Asian markets.
The Company’s technology vision is to focus on the convergence of all channels, processes and entities in a manner such that data seamlessly flows once a data entry has initially been made.
Ebix strives to work collaboratively with clients to develop innovative technology strategies and solutions that address specific business challenges and requirements.
In addition, the Company and its subsidiaries lease office space primarily for sales and operations support in Salt Lake City, Utah, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Pasadena, California, Birmingham, Alabama, Irvine, California and Phoenix, Arizona.
Additionally, the Company leases office space in New Zealand, Australia, Singapore, Dubai, Brazil, Canada, and the United Kingdom for support, operations and sales offices.
The Company also owns five facilities in India.
In these operating offices, Ebix employs insurance and technology professionals who provide products, services, support and consultancy to thousands of customers across six continents.
The Company derives its revenues primarily from subscription and transaction fees pertaining to services delivered over our exchanges or from our application service provider "ASP" platforms, fees for business process outsourcing services, and fees for software development projects including associated fees for consulting, implementation, training, and project management provided to customers with installed systems, e-governance solutions to governmental agencies in the health and education sectors, as well as foreign exchange, remittance (both inward and outward) and related services, including travel, from our new financial exchange.


item3.txt
However, the Company has operations in Australia, India (specifically EbixCash), New Zealand, United Kingdom, Canada, Brazil, Philippines, Indonesia, and United Arab Emirates where we conduct transactions in the local currencies of each of these locations.


item4.txt



part2.txt



