During the nine months ended September 30, 2018 there were 1,638 shares, totaling $147 thousand, used to satisfy exercise costs and the recipients' income tax obligations related to stock options exercised and restricted stock vesting.
Under legacy US GAAP 340-20, direct response advertising was eligible for capitalization if certain conditions were met.
During the first nine months of 2017 reported sales and marketing expenses included $3.0 million of amortization of certain direct-response advertising costs associated with our medical education services, which have been capitalized in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 340.
The Company recorded a one-time $1.9 million adjustment to retained earnings on January 1, 2018 and is expensing all future costs from this date forward.
•Level 2 Inputs - Other than quoted prices included in Level 1 inputs, which are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the asset or liability.
•Short-term investments (commercial bank certificates of deposits and mutual funds), for which the fair values are measured as a Level 1 instrument.
•Contingent accrued earn-out business acquisition consideration liabilities for which fair values are measured as Level 3 instruments.
These contingent consideration liabilities were recorded at fair value on the acquisition date and are re-measured quarterly based on the then assessed fair value and adjusted if necessary.
As the fair value measure is based on significant inputs that are not observable in the market, they are categorized as Level 3.
The Company applies these terms in its calculation and determination of the fair value of contingent earn out liabilities for purchased businesses as part of the related valuation and purchase price allocation exercise for the corresponding acquired assets and liabilities.
Revenue Recognition—In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers ("Topic 606").As used herein, the terms “Ebix,” “the Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” refer to Ebix, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries as a combined entity, except where it is clear that the terms mean only Ebix, Inc.
Ebix is a leading international supplier of on-demand infrastructure exchanges to the insurance, financial, and healthcare industries.
In the insurance sector, the Company’s main focus is to develop and deploy a wide variety of insurance and reinsurance exchanges on an on-demand basis, while also, providing SaaS enterprise solutions in the area of CRM, front-end and back-end systems, outsourced administrative and risk compliance.
With a "Phygital” strategy that combines 231,500 physical distribution outlets in many ASEAN countries to an Omni-channel online digital platform, the Company’s EbixCash Financial exchange portfolio encompasses leadership in areas of domestic and international money remittance, travel, pre-paid and gift cards, utility payments, etc., in emerging countries such as India.
EbixCash, through its travel portal Via.com, is also one of Southeast Asia’s leading travel exchanges with over 110,000 distribution outlets and 8,000 corporate clients processing over 24.5 million transactions every year.
The Company’s technology vision is to focus on the convergence of all channels, processes and entities in a manner such that data seamlessly flows once a data entry has initially been made.
Ebix strives to work collaboratively with clients to develop innovative technology strategies and solutions that address specific business challenges and requirements.