 Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  



 The Company, in the normal course of doing business, is exposed to a variety of risks, including market risks associated with foreign currency exchange rates and changes in interest rates. The Company does not have any significant concentration with any one counterparty. There has been no material change in the Company’s assessment of its sensitivity to foreign currency exchange rate risk since its presentation set forth in Part II, Item 7A “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in its 2017 Annual Report. The Company may borrow under its Revolving Credit Facility and Commercial Paper Programs. Any borrowings under the new Euro Commercial Paper Program, entered into in July 2018 as discussed in Note 13 of the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, may be denominated in foreign currencies, and there can be no assurance that the Company can successfully manage 





 Table of Contents  



these changes in exchange rates, including in the event of a significant and sudden decline in the value of any of the foreign currencies for which such borrowings are made. In addition, any borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility either bear interest at or trade at rates that fluctuate with a spread over LIBOR, while any borrowings under the Commercial Paper Programs are subject to floating interest rates. Therefore, when the Company borrows under these debt instruments, the Company is exposed to market risk from exposure to changes in interest rates. As of June 30, 2018, there were no outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility, while borrowings under the Commercial Paper Programs were at an average floating rate of 2.37%. The Company does not expect changes in interest rates to have a material effect on income or cash flows in 2018, although there can be no assurances that interest rates will not change significantly.  



 Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities  



 None.  





 Table of Contents  



