Item 4.
Controls and Procedures  

 The Company’s management, with the participation of the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures, pursuant to Rules 13a-15(e) or 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), as of the end of the period covered by this report.
These controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by the Company in reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms, and such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Based on their evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this report.
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting   

 Beginning January 1, 2019, the Company adopted ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) (“Topic 842”) and its related subsequent amendments.
Although the adoption of Topic 842 did not have a material impact on our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income or Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flow for the three months ended March 31, 2019, the Company implemented changes to our processes related to our lease commitments and the related control activities, including the implementation of a new lease management system and certain controls over financial reporting necessary for the required disclosures, as well as the implementation of new policies and any necessary changes to existing related policies.
Refer to Notes 2 and 15 of the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion on the adoption of Topic 842.
There has been no other change in our internal control over financial reporting during the Company’s most recent fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
Table of Contents  

 PART II - OTHER INFORMATION  

 Item 1.
Legal Proceedings  

 The Company has been named as a defendant in several legal actions arising from normal business activities.
Although the potential liability with respect to certain of such legal actions cannot be reasonably estimated, none of such matters is expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
In August 2018, the Company received a subpoena from the U.S. Department of Defense, Office of the Inspector General, requesting documents pertaining to certain products manufactured by the Company’s Military and Aerospace Group that are purchased or used by the U.S. government.
The Company is cooperating with the request.
The inquiry remains in the early stages and the Company is unable to estimate the timing or outcome of the matter.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors  

 There have been no material changes to the Company’s risk factors as disclosed in Part I, Item 1A of the Company’s 2018 Annual Report.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  

 Repurchase of Equity Securities  

 On April 24, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized the 2018 stock repurchase program under which the Company may purchase up to $2.0 billion of the Company’s Common Stock during the three-year period ending April 24, 2021 (the “2018 Stock Repurchase Program”) in accordance with the requirements of Rule 10b-18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, the Company repurchased 1.8 million shares of its Common Stock for $160.0 million under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program.
Of the total repurchases during the first quarter of 2019, approximately 1.0 million shares, or $87.6 million, have been retained in Treasury stock; the remaining 0.8 million shares, or $72.4 million, have been retired by the Company.
The Company has not repurchased any additional shares of its Common Stock through April 23, 2019, and has remaining authorization to purchase up to approximately $1,286.7 million of its Common Stock under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program.
The price and timing of any future purchases under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program will depend on factors such as levels of cash generation from operations, the volume of stock option exercises by employees, cash requirements for acquisitions, dividends, economic and market conditions and stock price.
Item 3.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities  

 None.
Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures  

 Not Applicable.
Item 5.
Other Information  

 None.
Table of Contents  

 Item 6.
Exhibits  





























 Table of Contents  





 Table of Contents  

 SIGNATURE  

 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
