Safe Harbor Statement  

 This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, which relate to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties.
The forward-looking statements, which address the Company’s expected business and financial performance and financial condition, among other matters, may contain words such as: “anticipate,” “could,” “continue,” “expect,” “estimate,” “forecast,” “ongoing,” “project,” “seek,” “predict,” “target,” “will,” “intend,” “plan,” “optimistic,” “potential,” “guidance,” “may,” “should” or “would” and other words and terms of similar meaning.
Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain, such as statements about expected earnings, revenues, growth, liquidity or other financial matters.
Although the Company believes the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements, including those with regards to results of operations, liquidity or the Company’s effective tax rate, are based upon reasonable assumptions, the expectations may not be attained or there may be material deviation.
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made.
There are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements, which include, but are not limited to, the following: political, economic, military and other risks in countries outside of the United States, including political, economic, financial or other instability, intergovernmental conflicts or actions and trade wars, strikes or natural disasters; the impact of general economic conditions, geopolitical conditions and U.S. trade policies, legislation, trade disputes, treaties and tariffs, including those affecting China, on the Company’s business operations; risks associated with the improper conduct by any of our employees, customers, suppliers, distributors or any other business partners which could impair our business reputation and financial results and could result in our non-compliance with anti-corruption laws and regulations of the U.S. government and various foreign jurisdictions; changes in exchange rates of the various currencies in which the Company conducts business, including possible currency devaluations; the Company’s ability to obtain a consistent supply of materials, at stable pricing levels, used in the Company’s manufacturing processes, including aluminum, steel, copper, titanium, metal alloys, gold, silver, certain rare earth metals and plastic resins; the Company’s dependence on sales to the communications industry, which markets are dominated by large manufacturers and operators who regularly exert significant pressure on suppliers, including the Company; changes in defense expenditures in the military market, including the impact of reductions or changes in the defense budgets of U.S. and foreign governments; the Company’s ability to compete successfully on the basis of technology innovation, product quality and performance, price, customer service and delivery time; the Company’s ability to continue to conceive, design, source and market new products and upon continuing market acceptance of its existing and future product lines, for continued revenue growth; difficulties and unanticipated expenses in connection with purchasing and integrating newly acquired businesses as part of the Company’s growth strategy, including the potential for the impairment of goodwill in the future; events beyond the Company’s control that could lead to an inability to meet its financial covenants which could result in a default under 


 Table of Contents  


 Such forward-looking statements may also be impacted by, among other things, additional guidance under the Tax Act.
More specifically, on December 22, 2017, the Tax Act was enacted and it significantly revised U.S. corporate income tax law by, among other things, reducing the U.S. corporate income tax rate to 21% and implementing a modified territorial tax system that included a one-time transition tax on deemed repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries (“Transition Tax”).
Any future guidance on the Tax Act could impact our forward-looking statements.
A further description of these uncertainties and other risks can be found in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and the Company’s other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
These or other uncertainties may cause the Company’s actual future results to be materially different from those expressed in any forward-looking statements.
The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements except as required by law.
Results of Operations  

 Three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018  

 Net sales were $1,958.5 in the first quarter of 2019 compared to $1,866.9 in the first quarter of 2018, which represented an increase of 5% in U.S. dollars, 8% in constant currencies and 5% organically over the same respective prior year period.
Net sales in the Interconnect Products and Assemblies segment (approximately 95% of net sales) in the first quarter of 2019 increased 5% in U.S. dollars, 8% in constant currencies and 5% organically, compared to the first quarter of 2018.
The sales growth was driven by increases in the information technology and data communications, industrial, military, commercial aerospace and mobile networks markets, arising primarily from organic growth along with contributions from the Company’s acquisitions, which was partially offset by a decrease in the mobile device market and a small decrease in the automotive market.
Net sales in the Cable Products and Solutions segment (approximately 5% of net sales) in the first quarter of 2019, which primarily serves the broadband market, decreased 1% in U.S. dollars, while increasing 2% in constant currencies and 2% organically, compared to the first quarter of 2018.
Table of Contents  



   (1)    Net sales growth in U.S. dollars is calculated based on Net sales as reported in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income and Note 5 of the accompanying financial statements.
Such amount is calculated by subtracting current year net sales translated at average foreign currency exchange rates for the respective prior periods from current year reported net sales, taken as a percentage of the respective prior period net sales.
Geographically, sales in the United States in the first quarter of 2019 increased approximately 10% in U.S. dollars ($578.9 in 2019 versus $527.0 in 2018) and 5% organically, compared to the first quarter of 2018.
Foreign sales in the first quarter of 2019 increased approximately 3% in U.S. dollars ($1,379.6 in 2019 versus $1,339.9 in 2018), 6% in constant currencies and 4% organically, compared to the first quarter of 2018.
The comparatively stronger U.S. dollar for the first quarter of 2019 had the effect of decreasing sales by approximately $46.6, compared to the same period in 2018.
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased to $235.1 or 12.0% of net sales for the first quarter of 2019, compared to $230.0 or 12.3% of net sales for the first quarter of 2018.
Administrative expenses represented approximately 4.5% of net sales for the first quarter of 2019 and represented approximately 5.0% of net sales for the first quarter of 2018.
Research and development expenses represented approximately 3.0% of net sales for the first quarter of 2019 and represented 2.8% of net sales for first quarter of 2018.
Selling and marketing expenses represented approximately 4.5% of net sales for the first quarter of 2019 and represented approximately 4.5% of net sales for the first quarter of 2018.
Operating income was $376.2 or 19.2% of net sales for the first quarter of 2019, compared to $376.9 or 20.2% of net sales for the first quarter of 2018.
Operating income for the first three months of 2019 included $16.5 of acquisition-related expenses (separately presented in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income) comprised of the amortization of $12.5 related to the value associated with acquired backlog from the SSI acquisition, as well as external transaction costs of $4.0.
