•Include all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the financial statements.
These Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data contained in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
We are a signal transmission solutions provider built around two global business platforms – Enterprise Solutions and Industrial Solutions.
Our comprehensive portfolio of signal transmission solutions provides industry leading secure and reliable transmission of data, sound, and video for mission critical applications.
Our fiscal first quarter ends on the Sunday falling closest to 91 days after December 31, which was March 31, 2019, the 90th day of our fiscal year 2019.
As of and during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and July 1, 2018, we utilized Level 1 inputs to determine the fair value of cash equivalents, and we utilized Level 2 and Level 3 inputs to determine the fair value of net assets acquired in business combinations (see Note 3).
We classify cash on hand and deposits in banks, including commercial paper, money market accounts, and other investments with an original maturity of three months or less, that we hold from time to time, as cash and cash equivalents.
We accrue environmental remediation costs based on estimates of known environmental remediation exposures developed in consultation with our environmental consultants and legal counsel.
As of June 30, 2019, we were party to standby letters of credit, bank guaranties, and surety bonds totaling $7.4 million, $3.6 million, and $3.3 million, respectively.
33-10532, Disclosure Update and Simplification, amending certain disclosure requirements that were redundant, duplicative, overlapping, outdated or superseded.
Additionally, the amendments expanded the disclosure requirements on the analysis of stockholders' equity for interim financial statements.
Under the amendments, an analysis of changes in each caption of stockholders' equity presented in the balance sheet must be provided in a note or separate statement.
The following tables present our revenues disaggregated by geography, based on the location of the customer purchasing the product.Belden Inc. (the Company, us, we, or our) is a signal transmission solutions company built around two global business platforms – Enterprise Solutions and Industrial Solutions.
We use a set of tools and processes that are designed to continuously improve business performance in the critical areas of quality, delivery, cost, and innovation.
Our exposure to currency rate fluctuations primarily relates to exchange rate movements between the U.S. dollar and the euro, Canadian dollar, Hong Kong dollar, Chinese yuan, Japanese yen, Mexican peso, Australian dollar, British pound, Indian rupee, and Brazilian real.
As the U.S. dollar strengthens or weakens against foreign currencies, it results in a relative price increase or decrease for certain of our products that are priced in U.S. dollars in a foreign location.
Generally, as the costs of inventory purchases increase due to higher commodity prices, we raise selling prices to customers to cover the increase in costs, resulting in higher sales revenue but a lower gross profit percentage.