fls.txt



item1.txt
We are a global supplier of specialty networking solutions built around two global business platforms - Enterprise Solutions and Industrial Solutions.
As of and during the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019 and September 30, 2018, we utilized Level 1 inputs to determine the fair value of cash equivalents, and we utilized Level 2 and Level 3 inputs to determine the fair value of net assets acquired in business combinations (see Note 3).
We classify cash on hand and deposits in banks, including commercial paper, money market accounts, and other investments with an original maturity of three months or less, that we hold from time to time, as cash and cash equivalents.
We accrue environmental remediation costs based on estimates of known environmental remediation exposures developed in consultation with our environmental consultants and legal counsel.
As of September 29, 2019, we were party to standby letters of credit, bank guaranties, and surety bonds totaling $9.7 million, $3.9 million, and $3.3 million, respectively.
The amendments in ASU 2018-07 expand the scope of Topic 718, Compensation - Stock Compensation, to include share-based payment transactions for acquiring goods and services from non-employees, and provide that non-employee share-based payment awards be measured at their grant-date fair value and the probability of satisfying performance conditions be taken into account when non-employee share-based payment awards contain such conditions.
33-10532, Disclosure Update and Simplification, amending certain disclosure requirements that were redundant, duplicative, overlapping, outdated or superseded.
Additionally, the amendments expanded the disclosure requirements on the analysis of stockholders' equity for interim financial statements.
Under the amendments, an analysis of changes in each caption of stockholders' equity presented in the balance sheet must be provided in a note or separate statement.
The following tables present our revenues disaggregated by geography, based on the location of the customer purchasing the product.
The following tables present our revenues disaggregated by products, including software products, and support and services.
We generate revenues primarily by selling products that provide secure and reliable transmission of data, sound, and video for mission critical applications.
For these arrangements, revenue is allocated to each performance obligation based on its relative selling price and recognized when or as each performance obligation is satisfied.
Generally, we determine relative selling price using the prices charged to customers on a standalone basis.
Adjustments to revenue for performance obligations satisfied in prior periods were not significant during the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019 and September 30, 2018.
Consideration allocated to support services under a support and maintenance contract is typically paid in advance and recognized ratably over the term of the service.
As of September 29, 2019, total deferred revenue was $99.2 million, and of this amount, $86.5 million is expected to be recognized within the next twelve months, and the remaining $12.7 million is long-term and is expected to be recognized over a period greater than twelve months.
The maximum earnout consideration is $25.0 million, but based upon a third party valuation specialist using certain assumptions in a discounted cash flow model, the estimated fair value of the earnout included
A change in the estimated fair value of the net assets acquired or noncontrolling interests will change the amount of the purchase price allocable to goodwill.


item2.txt
Belden Inc. (the Company, us, we, or our) is a global supplier of specialty networking solutions built around two global business platforms - Enterprise Solutions and Industrial Solutions.
Our comprehensive portfolio of solutions enables customers to transmit and secure data, sound, and video for mission critical applications across complex enterprise and industrial environments.
We consider revenue growth, Adjusted EBITDA margin, free cash flows, and return on invested capital to be our key operating performance indicators.
Our exposure to currency rate fluctuations primarily relates to exchange rate movements between the U.S. dollar and the euro, Canadian dollar, Hong Kong dollar, Chinese yuan, Japanese yen, Mexican peso, Australian dollar, British pound, Indian rupee, and Brazilian real.
We use information provided to us by our channel partners and make certain assumptions based on our sales to them to determine the amount of products they bought from us and hold in their inventory.
Our strategic goal is to utilize our Market Delivery System to target faster growing geographies, applications, and trends within our end markets, in order to achieve growth that is higher than the general market growth rate.
We performed an interim impairment test on our Grass Valley reporting unit, which resulted in a total goodwill and other asset impairment charge of $342.1 million for the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019.
The restructuring and integration activities are focused on achieving desired cost savings by consolidating existing and acquired facilities and other support functions.
The restructuring and integration activities are focused on achieving desired cost savings by consolidating existing and acquired facilities and other support functions.
On July 15, 2019, all outstanding Preferred Stock was automatically converted into shares of Belden common stock at the conversion rate of 132.50, resulting in the issuance of approximately 6.9 million shares of Belden common stock.


item3.txt



part2.txt



