fls.txt



item1.txt
•Include all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the financial statements.
These Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data contained in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
We are a signal transmission solutions provider built around two global business platforms – Enterprise Solutions and Industrial Solutions.
As of and during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and April 1, 2018, we utilized Level 1 inputs to determine the fair value of cash equivalents, and we utilized Level 2 and Level 3 inputs to determine the fair value of net assets acquired in business combinations (see Note 3).
We did not have any transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and April 1, 2018.
We classify cash on hand and deposits in banks, including commercial paper, money market accounts, and other investments with an original maturity of three months or less, that we hold from time to time, as cash and cash equivalents.
We accrue environmental remediation costs based on estimates of known environmental remediation exposures developed in consultation with our environmental consultants and legal counsel.
As of March 31, 2019, we were party to standby letters of credit, bank guaranties, and surety bonds totaling $7.3 million, $3.6 million, and $3.3 million, respectively.
The amendments in ASU 2018-07 expand the scope of Topic 718, Compensation - Stock Compensation, to include share-based payment transactions for acquiring goods and services from non-employees, and provide that non-employee share-based payment awards be measured at their grant-date fair value and the probability of satisfying performance conditions be taken into account when non-employee share-based payment awards contain such conditions.
33-10532, Disclosure Update and Simplification, amending certain disclosure requirements that were redundant, duplicative, overlapping, outdated or superseded.
Under the amendments, an analysis of changes in each caption of stockholders' equity presented in the balance sheet must be provided in a note or separate statement.
The following tables present our revenues disaggregated by geography, based on the location of the customer purchasing the product.
The following tables present our revenues disaggregated by products, including software products, and support and services.
We generate revenues primarily by selling products that provide secure and reliable transmission of data, sound, and video for mission critical applications.
For these arrangements, revenue is allocated to each performance obligation based on its relative selling price and recognized when or as each performance obligation is satisfied.
Generally, we determine relative selling price using the prices charged to customers on a standalone basis.
Adjustments to revenue for performance obligations satisfied in prior periods was not significant during the three months ended March 31, 2019.
Estimated price adjustments recognized against our gross accounts receivable balance as of March 31, 2019 totaled $25.8 million.
Depending on the terms of an arrangement, we may defer the recognition of a portion of the consideration received because we have to satisfy a future obligation.


item2.txt
Belden Inc. (the Company, us, we, or our) is a signal transmission solutions company built around two global business platforms – Enterprise Solutions and Industrial Solutions.
We use a set of tools and processes that are designed to continuously improve business performance in the critical areas of quality, delivery, cost, and innovation.
We consider revenue growth, Adjusted EBITDA margin, free cash flows, and return on invested capital to be our key operating performance indicators.
Our exposure to currency rate fluctuations primarily relates to exchange rate movements between the U.S. dollar and the euro, Canadian dollar, Hong Kong dollar, Chinese yuan, Japanese yen, Mexican peso, Australian dollar, British pound, Indian rupee, and Brazilian real.
As the U.S. dollar strengthens or weakens against foreign currencies, it results in a relative price increase or decrease for certain of our products that are priced in U.S. dollars in a foreign location.
Generally, as the costs of inventory purchases increase due to higher commodity prices, we raise selling prices to customers to cover the increase in costs, resulting in higher sales revenue but a lower gross profit percentage.
Our channel partners and customers purchase and hold the products they bought from us in their inventory in order to meet the service and on-time delivery requirements of their customers.
We use information provided to us by our channel partners and make certain assumptions based on our sales to them to determine the amount of products they bought from us and hold in their inventory.
Our strategic goal is to utilize our Market Delivery System to target faster growing geographies, applications, and trends within our end markets, in order to achieve growth that is higher than the general market growth rate.
To the extent that we exceed the market growth rates, we consider it to be the result of capturing market share.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



