fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements include Belden Inc. and all of its subsidiaries (the Company, us, we, or our).
These Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data contained in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Our fiscal first quarter ends on the Sunday falling closest to 91 days after December 31, which was April 1, 2018, the 91st day of our fiscal year 2018.
The segments formerly known as Broadcast Solutions and Enterprise Solutions now are presented as the Enterprise Solutions segment, and the segments formerly known as Industrial Solutions and Network Solutions now are presented as the Industrial Solutions segment.
The reorganization allows us to further accelerate progress in key strategic areas, and the segment consolidation properly aligns our external reporting with the way the businesses are now managed.
During the financial closing process for the fourth quarter of 2017, we determined that certain consolidated financial statement amounts were not recorded correctly in prior interim periods of 2017.
The impact of the errors in the three months ended October 1, 2017 was an overstatement of revenues and net income of $11.8 million and $2.6 million, respectively.
The impact of the errors in the nine months ended October 1, 2017 was an overstatement of revenues and net income of $28.3 million and $6.9 million, respectively.
The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve our capital for the purpose of funding operations.
We have established liabilities for environmental and legal contingencies that are probable of occurrence and reasonably estimable, the amounts of which are currently not material.
We accrue environmental remediation costs based on estimates of known environmental remediation exposures developed in consultation with our environmental consultants and legal counsel.
On July 5, 2011, our wholly-owned subsidiary, PPC Broadband, Inc. (PPC), filed an action for patent infringement against Corning Optical Communications RF LLC (Corning).
In November 2016, following a series of post-trial motions, the trial judge issued rulings for a total judgment in our favor of approximately $61.3 million.
In March 2018, a panel of three judges of the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit issued a Rule 36 Affirmance of the District Court's final judgment that Corning, among other things, willfully infringed the PPC universal compression patents at issue in the case, and that PPC should be awarded approximately $61.8 million, plus accrued interest.
We recorded the $62.1 million of cash received as a pre-tax gain from patent litigation during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018.
Prior to the third quarter of 2018, we had not recognized any amounts in our consolidated financial statements related to this matter.
For at least the same reasons why the Federal Circuit affirmed the District Court’s decision to enhance damages, we believe that Corning’s certiorari petition will not be granted, thus exhausting Corning’s opportunities for further appellate relief.


item2.txt
Belden Inc. (the Company, us, we, or our) is a signal transmission solutions company built around two global business platforms – Enterprise Solutions and Industrial Solutions.
Our comprehensive portfolio of signal transmission solutions provides industry leading secure and reliable transmission of data, sound, and video for mission critical applications.
We consider revenue growth, Adjusted EBITDA margin, free cash flows, and return on invested capital to be our key operating performance indicators.
Our exposure to currency rate fluctuations primarily relates to exchange rate movements between the U.S. dollar and the Euro, Canadian dollar, Hong Kong dollar, Chinese yuan, Japanese yen, Mexican peso, Australian dollar, British pound, and Brazilian real.
Our strategic goal is to utilize our Market Delivery System to target faster growing geographies, applications, and trends within our end markets, in order to achieve growth that is higher than the general market growth rate.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
On September 27, 2018, Corning filed a petition for certiorari review by the U.S. Supreme Court of the District Court’s decision to exercise its discretion to award PPC $23.85 million in enhanced damages based on the totality of the evidence, including a number of factual findings regarding Corning’s willful infringement and egregious conduct.
However, since the trends and outcome of this litigation are inherently uncertain, we cannot give absolute assurance regarding the future resolution of such litigation, or that such litigation may not become material in the future.
Following is a discussion of some of the more significant risks that could materially impact our business, including certain updates since previously disclosed in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 1, 2018, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on August 6, 2018.
A challenging global economy could also make it difficult for our customers, our vendors, and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities.
For example, a strengthened U.S. dollar can result in relative price increases for our products for customers outside of the U.S., which can have a negative impact on our revenues and results of operations.
Furthermore, customers’ ability to invest in capital expenditures, such as our products, can depend upon proceeds from commodities, such as oil and gas markets.
Moreover, some competitors that are highly leveraged both financially and operationally could become more aggressive in their pricing of products.


