fls.txt
The statements contained in this Report that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21B of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including statements regarding our expectations, beliefs, intentions and strategies for the future.


item1.txt
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been condensed or omitted.
The results of operations for the interim periods presented are not necessarily indicative of results that may be expected for any other interim period or for the full fiscal year.
In each 53-week year, an additional week is added to the first quarter, and each of the last three quarters is comprised of a 13-week period.
We have evaluated our relationships with our affiliates and have determined that these entities are not variable interest entities.
We early adopted ASU 2016-15 during the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
Adoption of ASU 2016-15 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
We early adopted ASU 2016-18 during the second quarter of fiscal 2018 and applied its provisions retrospectively.
The amendment requires an entity to perform its annual or interim goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount.
A goodwill impairment will be the amount by which a reporting unit’s carrying value exceeds its fair value, not to exceed the carrying amount of goodwill.
We are currently evaluating the effect that adopting ASU 2017-04 will have on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740) Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other than Inventory, which is intended to improve the accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
Current GAAP prohibits the recognition of current and deferred income taxes for an intra-entity asset transfer until the asset has been sold to an outside party, which is an exception to the principle of comprehensive recognition of current and deferred income taxes in GAAP.


item2.txt
the timing and magnitude of any acquisitions or dispositions.
This discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report.
Disclosures related to our business segments are provided in "Note 4.
Large project orders can include several displays, controllers, and subcontracted structure builds, each of which can occur on varied schedules per the customer's needs.
Net sales and gross profit percentages also have fluctuated due to other seasonal factors, including the impact of holidays, which primarily affects our third fiscal quarter.
Our backlog consists of contractually binding sales agreements or purchase orders we expect to fill within the next 24 months.
Orders, which we define as a receipt of an executed contract and any required deposits, are booked and included in backlog.
As a result, certain orders for which we have received binding letters of intent or contracts will not be booked until all required contractual documents and deposits are received.
Backlog can fluctuate due to large order booking timing and seasonality.
For a summary of recently issued accounting pronouncements and the effects of those pronouncements on our financial results, refer to "Note 1.
Our mission is to be the world leader at informing and entertaining audiences through dynamic audio-visual communication systems.
These qualities are important for our long-term success because our products have finite lifetimes, and we strive to win replacement business from existing customers.


item3.txt
Through January 27, 2018, most of our net sales were denominated in U.S. dollars, and our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate changes on net sales had not been significant.
For the nine months ended January 27, 2018, net sales originating outside the United States were 16.1 percent of total net sales, of which a portion was denominated in Canadian dollars, Euros, Chinese renminbi, British pounds, Australian dollars, Brazilian reais or other currencies.


item4.txt
Based upon that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that as of January 27, 2018, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective.


part2.txt
Item 1.


