Item 1.Financial Statements.



COMPUTER PROGRAMS AND SYSTEMS, INC.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 









The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.



COMPUTER PROGRAMS AND SYSTEMS, INC.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 









The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.



COMPUTER PROGRAMS AND SYSTEMS, INC.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY 









The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.



COMPUTER PROGRAMS AND SYSTEMS, INC.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 









The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.



COMPUTER PROGRAMS AND SYSTEMS, INC.



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 





1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION 



Basis of Presentation



The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") and include all adjustments that, in the opinion of management, are necessary for a fair presentation of the results of the periods presented. All such adjustments are considered of a normal recurring nature. Quarterly results of operations are not necessarily indicative of annual results.



Certain footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP") have been condensed or omitted. The condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2017 was derived from the audited consolidated balance sheet at that date. These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements of Computer Programs and Systems, Inc. ("CPSI" or the "Company") for the year ended December 31, 2017 and the notes thereto contained in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.



Principles of Consolidation



The condensed consolidated financial statements of CPSI include the accounts of TruBridge, LLC ("TruBridge"), Evident, LLC ("Evident"), and Healthland Holding Inc. ("HHI"), all of which are wholly-owned subsidiaries of CPSI. The accounts of HHI include those of its wholly-owned subsidiaries, Healthland Inc. ("Healthland"), Rycan Technologies, Inc. ("Rycan"), and American HealthTech, Inc. ("AHT"). All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.



Presentation



Effective January 1, 2018, our interface services team, which provides the design, development, implementation, and support services for all interfaces for data exchange from the CPSI applications, was previously considered a part of our product development division and has been integrated with our acute care client service team. This transition will work to create a consistent, personal, and convenient service experience for our clients characterized by transparent communication with prompt resolution. With this change, the payroll and related costs of this group of employees that were formerly included within the caption "Product development" on our condensed consolidated statements of income are now included within the caption "System sales and support - Cost of sales."



These reclassification had no effect on previously reported total sales revenues, operating income, income before taxes or net income. 







2. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS



New Accounting Standards Adopted in 2018



In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, to clarify the principles for recognizing revenue and to develop a common revenue standard for U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards. The standard outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and supersedes prior revenue recognition guidance. This guidance was effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those years beginning after December 15, 2017, which was effective for the Company as of the first quarter of our fiscal year ending December 31, 2018. We adopted this new accounting standard codified as Accounting 



Standards Codification ("ASC") 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, and the related amendments ("new revenue standard") during the first quarter of 2018 and have applied it to all contracts using the modified retrospective method, pursuant to which the cumulative effect of initially applying the new revenue standard is recognized as an adjustment to retained earnings and impacted balance sheet line items as of January 1, 2018, the date of adoption. The comparative previous period information continues to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for that period.



We completed an assessment of our systems, data, and processes that are affected by the implementation of this new revenue standard and have concluded that this standard does not significantly alter revenue recognition practices for our system sales and support and TruBridge revenue streams. The impact on our revenue recognition is limited to deferring and amortizing implementation fees over the contract life related to our Rycan revenue cycle management product, in which we previously recognized revenue as implementation was completed. Rycan implementation fees totaled $1.6 million in 2017, less than 1% of our 2017 revenues. The balance sheet impact of the deferred revenue related to these fees was an increase of $1.8 million as of the date of adoption. Also impacting deferred revenue was a decrease of $0.6 million related to previous billings which no longer required deferred recognition as of the date of adoption.



In addition to revenue recognition, the new revenue standard impacts our consolidated financial statements with respect to the capitalization of certain commissions and contract fulfillment costs which were previously expensed as incurred. Commissions and contract fulfillment costs related to the implementation of software as a service arrangements are now capitalized and amortized over the expected life of the customer. TruBridge commissions, which are paid up to twelve months in advance, are now capitalized and amortized over the prepayment period. The balance sheet impact of the prepaid assets was an increase of $3.8 million as of the date of adoption. 



Due to the aforementioned changes in assets and liabilities related to the adoption of the new revenue standard, our deferred tax liability increased $0.6 million as of the date of adoption.



In total, the adoption of ASU 2014-09 resulted in a net increase in retained earnings of $2.0 million as of the date of adoption. 









The effect of the changes in balance sheet accounts resulting from the adoption of the new revenue standard are primarily due to the beginning adjustments for adoption mentioned above, accompanied by incremental changes resulting from activity during the period ending March 31, 2018. Refer to Note 3 - Revenue Recognition for more information on period activity.



The new revenue standard requirements did not impact our net cash provided by or used in operating, investing, or financing cash flows on our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows, although components within changes in operating assets and liabilities were immaterially impacted by adoption. 



In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-15, Classifications of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments, which clarifies cash flow classification for eight specific issues, including debt prepayment or extinguishment costs, contingent consideration payments made after a business combination, proceeds from the settlement of insurance claims, and proceeds from settlement of corporate-owned life insurance policies. This guidance was effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those years beginning after December 15, 2017, which was effective for the Company as of the first quarter of our fiscal year ending December 31, 2018. The adoption of ASU 2016-15 did not have a material effect on our financial statements.



In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-01, Clarifying the Definition of a Business, to assist an entity in evaluating when a set of transferred assets and activities is a business. The guidance was effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those years beginning after December 15, 2017, and will be applied prospectively to any transactions occurring within the period of adoption. The adoption of ASU 2017-01 did not have a material effect on our financial statements.



New Accounting Standards Yet to be Adopted



In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases, to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by recognizing lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements. The new guidance will require the recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities by lessees for those leases classified as operating leases under previous U.S. GAAP. This guidance will be effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those years beginning after December 15, 2018, which will be effective for the Company as of the first quarter of our fiscal year ending December 31, 2019. The Company is currently evaluating the impact that the implementation of this standard will have on its financial statements.



We do not believe that any other recently issued but not yet effective accounting standards, if adopted, would have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.







Revenue is recognized net of shipping charges and any taxes collected from clients, which are subsequently remitted to governmental authorities. 



System Sales and Support



The Company enters into contractual obligations to sell perpetual software licenses, installation, conversion, and training, hardware and software application support and hardware maintenance services to acute care and post-acute care community hospitals. 



Non-recurring Revenues







•Hardware revenue is recognized separately from software licenses at the point in time it is delivered to the client. The SSP of hardware is cost plus a reasonable margin. Payment is generally due upon delivery of the hardware to the client. Standard manufacturer warranties apply for hardware.





•Subscriptions to third party content revenue is recognized as a separate performance obligation ratably over the subscription term based on SSP, which is cost plus a reasonable margin. Payment is due monthly for subscriptions to third party content.



•Software as a Service ("SaaS") arrangements for EHR software and related conversion and training services are considered a single performance obligation. Revenue is recognized on a monthly basis as the SaaS service is provided to the client over the contract term. Payment is due monthly for SaaS services provided.



Refer to Note 14 - Segment Reporting, for further information, including revenue by client base (acute care or post-acute care) bifurcated by recurring and non-recurring revenue.



TruBridge





TruBridge also provides professional IT services. Revenue from professional services is recognized as the services are performed based on SSP. Payment is due monthly as services are performed.



Deferred Revenue



Deferred revenue represents amounts invoiced to clients for which the services under contract have not been completed and revenue has not been recognized, including annual renewals of certain software subscriptions and customer deposits for implementations to be performed at a later date. Revenue is recognized ratably over the life of the software subscriptions as services are provided and at the point-in-time when implementations have been completed.





The $7.2 million of deferred revenue recorded during the period ended March 31, 2018 is primarily the annual renewals of certain software subscriptions billed during the first quarter of each year. The deferred revenue recognized as revenue during the period ending March 31, 2018 is primarily the periodic recognition of annual renewals that have been deferred until earned. 



Costs to Obtain and Fulfill a Contract with a Customer



Costs to obtain a contract include the commission costs related to SaaS licensing agreements, which are capitalized and amortized ratably over the expected life of the customer. As a practical expedient, we generally recognize the incremental costs of obtaining a contract as an expense when incurred if the amortization period of the asset would have been one year or less, with the exception of commissions generated from TruBridge sales. TruBridge commissions, which are paid up to twelve months in advance, are capitalized and amortized over the prepayment period. Costs to obtain a contract are expensed within sales and marketing expenses in the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of income.



Contract fulfillment costs related to the implementation of SaaS arrangements are capitalized and amortized ratably over the expected life of the customer. Costs to fulfill contracts consist of the payroll costs for the implementation of SaaS arrangements, including time for training, conversion, and installation that is necessary for the software to be utilized. Contract fulfillment costs are expensed within the caption "System sales and support - Cost of sales."



Costs to obtain and fulfill contracts related to SaaS arrangements are included within the "Prepaid expenses and other" and "Other assets, net of current portion" line items on our condensed consolidated balance sheets. 





Significant Judgments



Our contracts with clients often include promises to transfer multiple products and services to a customer. Determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately versus together may require significant judgment.



Judgment is required to determine SSP for each distinct performance obligation. We use observable SSP for items that are sold on a stand-alone basis to similarly situated clients at unit prices within a sufficiently narrow range. For performance obligations that are sold to different clients for a broad range of amounts, or for performance obligations that are never sold on a stand-alone basis, the residual method in determining SSP is applied and requires significant judgment. 



Allocating the transaction price, including estimating SSP of promised goods and services for contracts with discounts or variable consideration, may require significant judgment. Due to the short time frame of the implementation cycle, discount allocation is immaterial as revenue is recognized net of discounts within the same reporting period. In scenarios where the Company enters into a contract that includes both a software license and BPS or other services that are charged based on volume of services rendered, the Company allocates variable amounts entirely to a distinct good or service. The terms of the variable payment relate specifically to the entity’s efforts to satisfy that performance obligation. 



Significant judgment is required in determining the expected life of a customer, which is the amortization period for costs to obtain and fulfill a contract that have been capitalized. The Company determined that the expected life of the customer is not materially different from the initial contract term based on the characteristics of the SaaS offering.



Remaining Performance Obligations



Disclosures regarding remaining performance obligations are not considered material as the overwhelming majority of the Company's remaining performance obligations either (a) are related to contracts with an expected duration of one year or less, or (b) exhibit revenue recognition in the amount to which the Company has the right to invoice.



4. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT







5. OTHER ACCRUED LIABILITIES







The accrued contingent consideration depicted above represents the potential earnout incentive for former Rycan shareholders, relating to the purchase of Rycan by HHI in 2015. We have estimated the fair value of the contingent consideration based on the amount of revenue we expect to be earned by Rycan through the year ending December 31, 2018 in accordance with the agreement.



6. NET INCOME PER SHARE



The Company presents basic and diluted earnings per share ("EPS") data for its common stock. Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the net income attributable to stockholders of the Company by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the net income attributable to stockholders of the Company and the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period for the effects of all dilutive potential common shares, including awards under stock-based compensation arrangements.



The Company's unvested restricted stock awards (see Note 8) are considered participating securities under FASB Codification topic, Earnings Per Share, because they entitle holders to non-forfeitable rights to dividends until the awards vest or are forfeited. When a company has a security that qualifies as a "participating security," the Codification requires the use of the two-class method when computing basic EPS. The two-class method is an earnings allocation formula that determines EPS for each class of common stock and participating security according to dividends declared (or accumulated) and participation rights in undistributed earnings. In determining the amount of net income to allocate to common stockholders, income is allocated to both common stock and participating securities based on their respective weighted average shares outstanding for the period, with net income attributable to common stockholders ultimately equaling net income less net income attributable to participating securities. Diluted EPS for the Company's common stock is computed using the more dilutive of the two-class method or the treasury stock method.







During 2018, performance share awards were granted to certain executive officers and key employees of the Company that will result in the issuance of time-vesting restricted stock if the predefined performance criteria are met. The awards provide for an aggregate target of 184,776 shares, none of which have been included in the calculation of diluted EPS for the three months ended March 31, 2018 because the related threshold award performance level has not been achieved as of March 31, 2018. See Note 8 - Stock-based Compensation for more information.





The Company determines the tax provision for interim periods using an estimate of our annual effective tax rate, adjusted for discrete items, if any, that are taken into account in the relevant period. Each quarter we update our estimate of the annual effective tax rate, and if our estimated tax rate changes, we make a cumulative adjustment.



Our effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2018 decreased to 32.4% from 83.6% for the three months ended March 31, 2017. Our effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was impacted by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which reduced our corporate federal rate from 35% to 21% effective at the beginning of 2018. The first quarter of 2018 also included a $0.4 million shortfall tax expense related to stock-based compensation that increased the effective rate by 6%. During the first quarter of 2017 we experienced a shortfall tax expense related to stock-based compensation of $0.8 million that increased the effective rate by 51%.





Stock-based compensation expense is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award, and is recognized as an expense over the employee's or non-employee director's requisite service period.







The Company's stock-based compensation awards are in the form of restricted stock and performance share awards granted pursuant to the Company's 2012 Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors and Amended and Restated 2014 Incentive Plan (the "Plans"). As of March 31, 2018, there was $20.4 million of unrecognized compensation expense related 



to unvested stock-based compensation arrangements granted under the Plans, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.4 years. 



Restricted Stock



The Company grants restricted stock to executive officers, certain key employees and non-employee directors under the Plans with the fair value of the awards representing the fair value of the common stock on the date the restricted stock is granted. Shares of restricted stock generally vest in equal annual installments over the applicable vesting period, which ranges from one to three years. The Company records expenses for these grants on a straight-line basis over the applicable vesting periods. Shares of restricted stock may also be issued pursuant to the settlement of performance share awards, for which the Company records expenses in the manner described in the "Performance Share Awards" section below. 







Performance Share Awards



The Company grants performance share awards to executive officers and certain key employees under the Amended and Restated 2014 Incentive Plan. The number of shares of common stock earned and issuable under each award is determined at the end of each one-year or three-year performance period, based on the Company's achievement of performance goals predetermined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors at the time of grant. The three-year performance share awards include a modifier to the total number of shares earned based on the Company's total shareholder return ("TSR") compared to an industry index. If certain levels of the performance objective are met, the award results in the issuance of shares of restricted stock or common stock corresponding to such level. One-year performance share awards are then subject to time-based vesting pursuant to which the shares of restricted stock vest in equal annual installments over the applicable vesting period, which is generally three years. Three-year performance share awards result in the issuance of shares of common stock that are not subject to time-based vesting at the conclusion of the three-year performance period if earned.



In the event that the Company's financial performance meets the predetermined target for the performance objective of the one-year and three-year performance share awards, the Company will issue each award recipient the number of shares of restricted stock or common stock, as applicable, equal to the target award specified in the individual's underlying performance share award agreement. In the event the financial results of the Company exceed the predetermined target, additional shares up to the maximum award may be issued. In the event the financial results of the Company fall below the predetermined target, a reduced number of shares may be issued. If the financial results of the Company fall below the threshold performance level, no shares will be issued. The total number of shares issued for the three-year performance share award may be increased, decreased, or unchanged based on the TSR modifier described above.



The recipients of performance share awards do not receive dividends or possess voting rights during the performance period and, accordingly, the fair value of the one-year performance share awards is the quoted market value of CPSI's common stock on the grant date less the present value of the expected dividends not received during the relevant period. The TSR modifier applicable to the three-year performance share awards is considered a market condition and therefore is reflected in the grant date fair value of the award. A Monte Carlo simulation has been used to account for this market condition in the grant date fair value of the award.



Expense of one-year performance share awards is recognized using the accelerated attribution (graded vesting) method over the period beginning on the date the Company determines that it is probable that the performance criteria will be achieved and ending on the last day of the vesting period for the restricted stock issued in satisfaction of such awards. Expense of three-year performance share awards is recognized using ratable straight-line amortization over the three-year performance period. In the event the Company determines it is no longer probable that the minimum performance level will be achieved, all previously recognized compensation expense related to the applicable awards is reversed in the period such a determination is made.









Short-Term Payment Plans







Long-Term Financing Arrangements



Additionally, the Company provides financing for purchases of its information and patient care systems to certain healthcare providers under long-term financing arrangements expiring in various years through 2025. Under long-term financing arrangements, the transaction price is adjusted by a discount rate that reflects market conditions that would be used for a separate financing transaction between the Company and licensee at contract conception, and takes into account the credit characteristics of the licensee and market interest rates as of the date of the agreement. As such, the amount of fixed fee revenue recognized at the beginning of the license term will be reduced by the calculated financing component. As payments are received from the licensee, the Company recognizes a portion of the financing component as interest income, reported as other income in the condensed consolidated statements of income. These receivables typically have terms from two to seven years.











Credit Quality of Financing Receivables and Allowance for Credit Losses







The Company’s financing receivables are comprised of a single portfolio segment, as the balances are all derived from short-term payment plan arrangements and long-term financing arrangements within our target market of community hospitals. The Company evaluates the credit quality of its financing receivables based on a combination of factors, including, but not limited to, customer collection experience, economic conditions, the customer’s financial condition, and known risk characteristics impacting the respective customer base of community hospitals, the most notable of which relate to enacted and potential changes in Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates as community hospitals typically generate a significant portion of their revenues and related cash flows from beneficiaries of these programs. In addition to specific account identification, the Company utilizes historical collection experience to establish the allowance for credit losses. Financing receivables are written off only after the Company has exhausted all collection efforts. The Company has been successful in collecting its financing receivables and considers the credit quality of such arrangements to be good.







From time to time, the Company may agree to alternative payment terms outside of the terms of the original financing receivable agreement due to customer difficulties in achieving the original terms. In general, such alternative payment arrangements do not result in a re-aging of the related receivables. Rather, payments pursuant to any alternative payment arrangements are applied to the already outstanding invoices beginning with the oldest outstanding invoices as the payments are received.



Because amounts are reclassified to trade accounts receivable when they become due, there are no past due amounts included within financing receivables or financing receivables, net of current portion, in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets.







10. INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND GOODWILL















Goodwill is evaluated for impairment annually on October 1, or more frequently if indicators of impairment are present or changes in circumstances suggest that impairment may exist. 









As of March 31, 2018, the carrying value of debt approximates the fair value due to the variable interest rate, which reflects the market rate.



Credit Agreement



In conjunction with our acquisition of HHI in January 2016, we entered into a syndicated credit agreement (the "Previous Credit Agreetment") with Regions Bank ("Regions") serving as administrative agent, which provided for a $125 million term loan facility (the "Previous Term Loan Facilty") and a $50 million revolving credit facility (the "Previous Revolving Credit Facility"). On October 13, 2017, we entered into a Second Amendment (the "Second Amendment") to refinance and decrease the aggregate committed size of the credit facilities from $175 million to $162 million, which included a $117 million term loan facility (the "Amended Term Loan Facility") and a $45 million revolving credit facility (the "Amended Revolving Credit Facility" and, together with the Amended Term Loan Facility, the "Amended Credit Facilities"). On February 8, 2018, we entered into a Third Amendment (the "Third Amendment") to the Amended Credit Agreement to increase the aggregate principle amount of the Amended Credit Facilities from $162 million to $167 million, which includes the $117 million Amended Term Loan Facility and a $50 million Amended Revolving Credit Facility.



Each of the Amended Credit Facilities continues to bear interest at a rate per annum equal to an applicable margin plus, at our option, either (1) the Adjusted LIBOR rate for the relevant interest period, (2) an alternate base rate determined by reference to the greater of (a) the prime lending rate of Regions, (b) the federal funds rate for the relevant interest period plus one half of one percent per annum and (c) the one month LIBOR rate plus one percent per annum, or (3) a combination of (1) and (2). The applicable margin range for LIBOR loans and the letter of credit fee ranges from 2.00% to 3.50%. The applicable margin range for base rate loans ranges from 1.00% to 2.50%, in each case based on the Company's consolidated leverage ratio. 



Principal payments with respect to the Amended Term Loan Facility are due on the last day of each fiscal quarter beginning December 31, 2017, with quarterly principal payments of approximately $1.46 million through September 30, 2019, approximately $2.19 million through September 30, 2021 and approximately $2.93 million through September 30, 2022, with the maturity on October 13, 2022 or such earlier date as the obligations under the Amended Credit Agreement become due and payable pursuant to the terms of the Amended Credit Agreement (the "Amended Maturity Date"). Any principal outstanding under the Amended Revolving Credit Facility is due and payable on the Amended Maturity Date.







The Amended Credit Facilities are secured pursuant to a Pledge and Security Agreement, dated January 8, 2016, among the parties identified as obligors therein and Regions, as collateral agent (the “Security Agreement”), on a first priority basis by a security interest in substantially all of the tangible and intangible assets (subject to certain exceptions) of the Company and certain subsidiaries of the Company, as guarantors (collectively, the “Subsidiary Guarantors”), including certain registered intellectual property and the capital stock of certain of the Company’s direct and indirect subsidiaries. Our obligations under the Amended Credit Agreement are also guaranteed by the Subsidiary Guarantors.





The Amended Credit Agreement requires the Company to mandatorily prepay the Amended Credit Facilities with (i) 75% of excess cash flow (minus certain specified other payments) during each of the fiscal years ending December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2018 and (ii) 50% of excess cash flow (minus certain specified other payments) during the fiscal year ending December 31, 2019 and thereafter. The Company is permitted to voluntarily prepay the Amended Credit Facilities at any time without penalty, subject to customary “breakage” costs with respect to prepayments of LIBOR rate loans made on a day other than the last day of any applicable interest period. The excess cash flow mandatory prepayment requirement of the Amended Credit Agreement resulted in a $7.3 million prepayment on the Amended Term Loan Facility during the first quarter of 2018 related to excess cash flow generated by the Company during 2017. This mandatory prepayment was funded by drawing down on the Amended Revolving Credit Facility, as excess cash flow generated by the Company during 2017 was primarily used to voluntarily prepay amounts due under the Amended Revolving Credit Facility.



12. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES



From time to time, the Company is involved in routine litigation that arises in the ordinary course of business. Management does not believe it is reasonably possible that such matters will have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial statements.













The accrued contingent consideration depicted below represents the potential earnout incentive for former Rycan shareholders, relating to the purchase of Rycan by HHI in 2015. We have estimated the fair value of the contingent consideration based on the amount of revenue we expect to be earned by Rycan through the year ending December 31, 2018 in accordance with the agreement. 











The carrying amounts of other financial instruments reported in the consolidated balance sheets for current assets and current liabilities approximate their fair values because of the short-term nature of these instruments.





Our chief operating decision makers ("CODM") utilize three operating segments, "Acute Care EHR," "Post-acute Care EHR" and "TruBridge," based on our three distinct business units with unique market dynamics and opportunities. Revenues and cost of sales are primarily derived from the provision of services and sales of our proprietary software, and our CODM assess the performance of these three segments at the gross profit level. Operating expenses and items such as interest, income tax, capital expenditures and total assets are managed at a consolidated level and thus are not included in our operating segment disclosures. Our CODM group is comprised of the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Growth Officer, Chief Operating Officer, and Chief Financial Officer. Accounting policies for each of the reportable segments are the same as those used on a consolidated basis. 









On May 3, 2018, the Company announced a dividend for the second quarter of 2018 in the amount of $0.10 per share, payable on June 1, 2018, to stockholders of record as of the close of business on May 17, 2018. 



Item 1.Legal Proceedings.



From time to time, we are involved in routine litigation that arises in the ordinary course of business. We are not currently involved in any claims outside the ordinary course of business that are material to our financial condition or results of operations. 



Item 1A.Risk Factors.



In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the factors discussed in Part I, "Item 1A. Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. The risks described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results.



