fls.txt



item1.txt
We provide security products, services and solutions to organizations and individuals.
Our Cyber Safety Solutions (delivered through our Norton and LifeLock offerings) help consumers protect their information, identities, devices and networks at home and online.
In the opinion of management, the unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contain all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring items, except as otherwise noted, necessary for the fair presentation of our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows for the interim periods.
These unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 30, 2018.
The standard’s core principle is that a company recognizes revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that the company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services.
The new guidance enhances the reporting model for financial instruments, which includes amendments to address aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure.
We adopted this new guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Income Taxes - Intra-Entity Asset Transfers Other Than Inventory.
In October 2016, the FASB issued new authoritative guidance that requires entities to immediately recognize the tax consequences of intercompany asset transfers, excluding inventory, at the transaction date, rather than deferring the tax consequences under legacy GAAP.
We expect to adopt the new guidance on a modified retrospective basis in our first quarter of fiscal 2020.
We have selected and are in the process of implementing a lease accounting system and finalizing our accounting policy and use of optional practical expedients.
We are evaluating the impact to our Consolidated Financial Statements as it relates to other aspects of the business.
The standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2021.
The new guidance aligns the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software.
The standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2021, with early adoption permitted.
We recognize revenue when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for the goods or services.
Revenue is recognized net of allowances for returns, discounts, distributor incentives and end-user rebates, and any taxes collected from customers and subsequently remitted to governmental authorities.


item2.txt
The discussion below contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to safe harbors under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) and the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
We do not undertake any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect events occurring or circumstances arising after the date of this report.
We are a global leader in cyber security and provide cyber security products, services and solutions to organizations and individuals worldwide.
Our Cyber Safety Solutions (delivered through our Norton and LifeLock offerings) help consumers protect their information, identities, devices and networks at home and online.


item4.txt



part2.txt
A description of the risk factors associated with our business is set forth below.
The list is not exhaustive and you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our common stock.
A decrease in demand for our solutions could adversely affect our financial results.
Fluctuations in our quarterly financial results have affected the trading price of our outstanding securities in the past and could affect the trading price of outstanding securities in the future.
Our customers’ renewal rates, and our customer retention, may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our solutions or our customer support, customer budgets and the pricing of our solutions compared with the solutions offered by our competitors, any of which may cause our revenue to grow more slowly than expected, or to decline.
Accordingly, we must invest significant time and resources in providing ongoing value to our customers.
Furthermore, if the SEC commences legal action, we could be required to pay significant penalties and become subject to injunctions, a cease and desist order and other equitable remedies.
We can provide no assurances as to the outcome of any governmental investigation.
We have incurred, and may continue to incur, significant expenses related to legal, accounting, and other professional services in connection with the internal investigation and related legal matters.


