Our Cyber Safety Solutions (delivered through our Norton and LifeLock offerings) help consumers protect their information, identities, devices and networks at home and online.
The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) in the United States of America (“U.S.”) for interim financial information.
In the opinion of management, the unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contain all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring items, except as otherwise noted, necessary for the fair presentation of our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows for the interim periods.
The results of operations for the three months ended June 29, 2018, are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for the entire fiscal year.
The standard’s core principle is that a company recognizes revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that the company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services.
In addition, companies are required to capitalize certain contract acquisition costs, including commissions paid, when contracts are signed.
The asset recognized from capitalized incremental and recoverable acquisition costs is amortized on a straight-line basis consistent with the timing of transfer of the products or services to which the asset relates.
The new guidance enhances the reporting model for financial instruments, which includes amendments to address aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure.
We adopted this new guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Income Taxes - Intra-Entity Asset Transfers Other Than Inventory.
In October 2016, the FASB issued new authoritative guidance that requires entities to immediately recognize the tax consequences of intercompany asset transfers, excluding inventory, at the transaction date, rather than deferring the tax consequences under legacy GAAP.The discussion below contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to safe harbors under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) and the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
We do not undertake any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect events occurring or circumstances arising after the date of this report.A description of the risk factors associated with our business is set forth below.
The list is not exhaustive and you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our common stock.
A decrease in demand for our solutions could adversely affect our financial results.
Any of the foregoing factors could cause the trading price of our outstanding securities to fluctuate significantly.
Our customers’ renewal rates, and our customer retention, may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our solutions or our customer support, customer budgets and the pricing of our solutions compared with the solutions offered by our competitors, any of which may cause our revenue to grow more slowly than expected, or to decline.
Accordingly, we must invest significant time and resources in providing ongoing value to our customers.