fls.txt



item1.txt
On November 4, 2019, we completed the transaction.
Starting in the second quarter of fiscal 2020, we operate in one reportable segment.
The Enterprise Security business was part of our Enterprise Security segment.
These revenues and expenses are now included in continuing operations.
The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the United States of America (U.S.) for interim financial information.
In the opinion of management, the unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contain all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring items, except as otherwise noted, necessary for the fair presentation of our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows for the interim periods.
These unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 29, 2019.
Such estimates include, but are not limited to, the determination of stand-alone selling price for performance obligations, valuation of business combinations including acquired intangible assets and goodwill, loss contingencies, valuation of stock-based compensation, and the recognition and measurement of current and deferred income taxes, including the measurement of uncertain tax positions.
Most prominent among the changes in the standard is the recognition of right-of-use (ROU) assets and lease liabilities by lessees for those leases classified as operating leases.
Under the standard, disclosures are required to meet the objective of enabling users of financial statements to assess the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
On March 30, 2019, the first day of our fiscal 2020, we adopted the new guidance using the alternative modified retrospective transition method under which we continue to apply the legacy lease accounting guidance, including its disclosure requirements, in comparative periods prior to fiscal 2020.
In addition, we elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance within the new standard that allowed us not to reassess (1) whether any expired or existing contracts are or contain leases, (2) lease classification for any expired or existing leases, and (3) initial direct costs for any existing leases.
We currently do not have any finance leases.
Credit Losses.
In June 2016, the FASB issued new authoritative guidance on credit losses which changes the impairment model for most financial assets and certain other instruments.
Additionally, for available-for-sale debt securities with unrealized losses, we will measure credit losses in a manner similar to today, except that the losses will be recognized as allowances rather than reductions in the amortized cost of the securities.


item2.txt
The discussion below contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to safe harbors under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act) and the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act).
We do not undertake any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect events occurring or circumstances arising after the date of this report.
NortonLifeLock Inc. is a global leader in consumer cyber safety.
Our Norton LifeLock branded solutions help consumers protect their devices, online privacy, identity, and home networks.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The list is not exhaustive, and you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our common stock.
For the last several years, we have experienced transitions in our business with the integration of two major acquisitions, the completion of several smaller acquisitions, and the divestiture of two businesses, two of which comprised substantially whole operating segments.
Transitions of this type can be disruptive, result in the loss of focus and employee morale and make the execution of business strategies more difficult.
We are dependent upon Broadcom for certain engineering services, which are critical to our products and business.
The technology, including source code, at issue is shared, and pursuant to the terms of the Broadcom sale, we retain rights to use, modify, enhance and create derivative works from such technology.
Further, our remaining employees may become concerned about the future of our remaining operations and lose focus or seek other employment.
Additionally, in connection with the divestiture, our Board of Directors committed to returning the proceeds of the Broadcom sale to stockholders in the form of a capital return program, including a special dividend of $12 per share and the August 2019 increase of our existing share repurchase authorization from $500 million to $1.6 billion.
The use of proceeds in this manner could impair our future financial growth.
This initiative could result in disruptions to our operations.


