fls.txt



item1.txt
Derived from audited financial statements.
Our Integrated Cyber Defense Platform helps business and government customers unify cloud and on-premises security to deliver a more effective cyber defense solution, while driving down cost and complexity.
Our Cyber Safety solutions under our Norton LifeLock brand help consumers protect their devices, online privacy, identities, and home networks.
The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the United States of America (U.S.) for interim financial information.
Such estimates include, but are not limited to, the determination of stand-alone selling price for performance obligations, valuation of business combinations including acquired intangible assets and goodwill, loss contingencies, valuation of stock-based compensation, and the recognition and measurement of current and deferred income taxes, including the measurement of uncertain tax positions.
There have been no material changes to our significant accounting policies as of and for the three months ended July 5, 2019, except for those noted in Note 2 and Note 4, as compared to the significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 29, 2019.
Under the standard, disclosures are required to meet the objective of enabling users of financial statements to assess the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
We currently do not have any finance leases.
In June 2016, the FASB issued new authoritative guidance on credit losses which changes the impairment model for most financial assets and certain other instruments.
The new guidance aligns the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software.
The standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2021, with early adoption permitted.
We lease certain of our facilities, equipment, and data center co-locations under operating leases that expire on various dates through fiscal 2029.
Some of our leases contain renewal options, escalation clauses, rent concessions, and leasehold improvement incentives.
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception.
Our incremental borrowing rate is a hypothetical rate for collateralized borrowings in economic environments where the leased asset is located based on credit rating factors.
Our operating lease assets also include adjustments for prepaid lease payments, lease incentives and initial direct costs.


item2.txt
We do not undertake any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect events occurring or circumstances arising after the date of this report.
We provide cyber security products, services, and solutions to organizations and individuals worldwide.
Our Enterprise Security segment focuses on providing our Integrated Cyber Defense solutions to help business and government customers unify cloud and on-premises security to deliver a more effective cyber defense solution, while driving down cost and complexity.
•Consumer Cyber Safety.


item4.txt



part2.txt
A description of the risk factors associated with our business is set forth below.
The list is not exhaustive, and you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our common stock.
New or existing customers, suppliers and business partners may prefer to enter into agreements with our competitors who have not expressed an intention to sell their business because customers, suppliers and business partners may perceive that such new relationships are likely to be more stable.
Additionally, employees working in the Enterprise Security business or the Cyber Safety Security business may become concerned about the future of the Enterprise Security or the Cyber Safety Security business, as applicable, and lose focus or seek other employment.
An alternative sale transaction, if available, may yield lower consideration than the proposed Sale, be on less favorable terms and conditions than those contained in the agreement and involve significant delay.
The Enterprise Security business generated approximately 49% of our total revenue for fiscal 2019, and approximately 53% of our total revenue for fiscal 2018.
A decrease in demand for our solutions could adversely affect our financial results.
•Changes in tax laws, rules, and regulations.
Any of the foregoing factors could cause the trading price of our outstanding securities to fluctuate significantly.


