fls.txt



item1.txt
Our Cyber Safety Solutions (delivered through our Norton and LifeLock offerings) help consumers protect their information, identities, devices and networks at home and online.
The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) in the United States of America (“U.S.”) for interim financial information.
In the opinion of management, the unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contain all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring items, except as otherwise noted, necessary for the fair presentation of our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows for the interim periods.
The standard’s core principle is that a company recognizes revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that the company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services.
In addition, companies are required to capitalize certain contract acquisition costs, including commissions paid, when contracts are signed.
The asset recognized from capitalized incremental and recoverable acquisition costs is amortized on a straight-line basis consistent with the timing of transfer of the products or services to which the asset relates.
The new guidance enhances the reporting model for financial instruments, which includes amendments to address aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure.
We adopted this new guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Substantially all of our equity investments that were not accounted for under the equity method were previously accounted for under the cost method and are now accounted for using the measurement alternative defined as cost, less impairments, adjusted for observable price changes.
Income Taxes - Intra-Entity Asset Transfers Other Than Inventory.
In October 2016, the FASB issued new authoritative guidance that requires entities to immediately recognize the tax consequences of intercompany asset transfers, excluding inventory, at the transaction date, rather than deferring the tax consequences under legacy GAAP.
In February 2016, the FASB issued new guidance on lease accounting which will require lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on their balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by operating leases and will also require disclosures designed to give users of financial statements information on the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
We are evaluating the impact to our Consolidated Financial Statements as it relates to other aspects of the business.
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income.
The new guidance aligns the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software.
Revenue is recognized net of allowances for returns, discounts, distributor incentives and end-user rebates, and any taxes collected from customers and subsequently remitted to governmental authorities.
We offer various channel and end-user rebates for our Consumer Digital Safety products.


item2.txt
The discussion below contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to safe harbors under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) and the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
We do not undertake any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect events occurring or circumstances arising after the date of this report.
Our Enterprise Security portfolio includes a deep and broad mix of products, services and solutions, delivered as part of an Integrated Cyber Defense Platform, which unifies cloud and on-premises security to provide advanced threat protection and information protection across all endpoints, networks, email, and cloud applications.
Our Cyber Safety Solutions (delivered through our Norton and LifeLock offerings) help consumers protect their information, identities, devices and networks at home and online.


item4.txt



part2.txt
A description of the risk factors associated with our business is set forth below.
The list is not exhaustive and you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our common stock.
A decrease in demand for our solutions could adversely affect our financial results.
Fluctuations in our quarterly financial results have affected the trading price of our outstanding securities in the past and could affect the trading price of outstanding securities in the future.
Our customers’ renewal rates, and our customer retention, may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our solutions or our customer support, customer budgets and the pricing of our solutions compared with the solutions offered by our competitors, any of which may cause our revenue to grow more slowly than expected, or to decline.
Accordingly, we must invest significant time and resources in providing ongoing value to our customers.
Furthermore, if the SEC commences legal action, we could be required to pay significant penalties and become subject to injunctions, a cease and desist order and other equitable remedies.
We can provide no assurances as to the outcome of any governmental investigation.
We have incurred, and may continue to incur, significant expenses related to legal, accounting, and other professional services in connection with the internal investigation and related legal matters.


