 ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  



 The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q. The following discussion may contain forward‑looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates, and beliefs. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in these forward‑looking statements as a result of many factors, including but not limited to those under the heading “Forward‑Looking Information” and “Part II. Item 1A. Risk Factors.”  



 Our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in United States (“U.S.”) dollars, in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (“GAAP”).  



 The following discussion includes organic net sales growth which is a non‑GAAP financial measure. See “Non‑GAAP Financial Measure” for additional information regarding this measure.  



 Overview  



 TE Connectivity Ltd. (“TE Connectivity” or the “Company,” which may be referred to as “we,” “us,” or “our”) is a global technology and manufacturing leader creating a safer, sustainable, productive, and connected future. For more than 75 years, our connectivity and sensor solutions, proven in the harshest environments, have enabled advancements in transportation, industrial applications, medical technology, energy, data communications, and the home.  





   ·    Our net sales decreased 4.2% and 2.0% in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019, respectively, as compared to the same periods of fiscal 2018, with sales declines in the Transportation Solutions and, to a lesser degree, the Communications Solutions segment, partially offset by growth in the Industrial Solutions segment. On an organic basis, our net sales decreased 0.5% during the second quarter of fiscal 2019 and increased 0.7% during the first six months of fiscal 2019, as compared to the same periods of fiscal 2018. 





   ·    Transportation Solutions—Our net sales decreased 7.6% and 5.0% in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019, respectively, due primarily to sales declines in the automotive end market. 



   ·    Industrial Solutions—Our net sales increased 3.6% and 4.4% during the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019, respectively, primarily as a result of increased sales in the aerospace, defense, oil, and gas end market. 



   ·    Communications Solutions—Our net sales decreased 4.8% and 1.3% in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019, respectively, due primarily to sales declines in the appliances end market. 



   ·    Net cash provided by continuing operating activities was $883 million in the first six months of fiscal 2019. 





 Table of Contents  



 Outlook  







   ·    Industrial Solutions—We expect our net sales growth in the aerospace, defense, oil, and gas end market to be offset by declines in the energy and industrial equipment end markets. In the industrial equipment end market, market weakness in factory automation and controls applications is expected to be partially offset by growth in medical applications. 



   ·    Communications Solutions—We expect our net sales to decline in the data and devices and the appliances end markets primarily as a result of market weakness in the Asia–Pacific region. 



 We expect diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to be in the range of $1.13 to $1.17 per share in the third quarter of fiscal 2019. This outlook reflects the negative impact of foreign currency exchange rates on net sales and earnings per share of approximately $120 million and $0.06 per share, respectively, in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2018.  





   ·    Transportation Solutions—We expect our net sales to decrease in the automotive end market due primarily to market weakness in China and the EMEA region. We expect global automotive production to decline approximately 5% in fiscal 2019. 



   ·    Industrial Solutions—We expect our net sales increase in the aerospace, defense, oil, and gas end market to be partially offset by declines in the energy end market. In the industrial equipment end market, we expect market weakness in factory automation and controls applications to be largely offset by growth in medical applications. 



   ·    Communications Solutions—We expect our net sales to decline in the data and devices and the appliances end markets due primarily to market weakness in the Asia–Pacific region. 



 We expect diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to be in the range of $4.88 to $4.98 per share in fiscal 2019. This outlook reflects the negative impact of foreign currency exchange rates on net sales and earnings per share of approximately $400 million and $0.16 per share, respectively, in fiscal 2019 as compared to fiscal 2018.  



 The above outlook is based on foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices that are consistent with current levels.  



 We are monitoring the current macroeconomic environment and its potential effects on our customers and the end markets we serve. We continue to closely manage our costs in line with economic conditions. Additionally, we are managing our capital resources and monitoring capital availability to ensure that we have sufficient resources to fund future capital needs. See further discussion in “Liquidity and Capital Resources.”  





 Table of Contents  



 In September 2018, Swiss Parliament approved the Federal Act on Tax Reform and AHV Financing (“Swiss Tax Reform”), subject to a referendum and a public vote in May 2019. Swiss Tax Reform will change income taxation at both the federal and cantonal levels. Prior to approval in the referendum and its subsequent cantonal implementation, the proposed Swiss Tax Reform is not enacted and therefore we have not reflected any of the potential impacts on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements or in the above outlook. We are currently assessing the impacts of the proposed Swiss Tax Reform. If enacted, the federal provisions and subsequent cantonal implementation of Swiss Tax Reform may have a material impact on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.  



 Discontinued Operations  



 During the first six months of fiscal 2019, we sold our Subsea Communications (“SubCom”) business for net cash proceeds of $297 million and incurred a pre‑tax loss on sale of $86 million. The SubCom business met the held for sale and discontinued operations criteria and was reported as such in all periods presented on the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Prior to reclassification to discontinued operations, the SubCom business was included in the Communications Solutions segment. See Note 3 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding discontinued operations.  



 Results of Operations  



 Net Sales  











 Net sales decreased $150 million, or 4.2%, in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily as a result of the negative impact of foreign currency translation of 4.3% due to the weakening of certain foreign currencies. Price erosion adversely affected organic net sales by $27 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2019.  



 In the first six months of fiscal 2019, net sales decreased $139 million, or 2.0%, as compared to the first six months of fiscal 2018. The decrease resulted from the negative impact of foreign currency translation of 3.3% due to the weakening of certain foreign currencies, partially offset by organic sales growth of 0.7% and sales contributions from an acquisition of 0.6%. Price erosion adversely affected organic net sales by $55 million in the first six months of fiscal 2019.  



 See further discussion of net sales below under “Segment Results.”  





 Table of Contents  



 Net Sales by Geographic Region. Our business operates in three geographic regions—EMEA, Asia–Pacific and the Americas—and our results of operations are influenced by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar, compared to other currencies, will directly affect our reported results as we translate those currencies into U.S. dollars at the end of each fiscal period.  



 Approximately 60% of our net sales were invoiced in currencies other than the U.S. dollar in the first six months of fiscal 2019.  







   (1)    Net sales to external customers are attributed to individual countries based on the legal entity that records the sale. 







 Cost of Sales and Gross Margin  







 Gross margin decreased $94 million and $144 million in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019, respectively, as compared to the same periods of fiscal 2018. The decreases were due primarily to the unfavorable impact of product mix and the negative impact of foreign currency translation, partially offset by lower material costs. Gross margin as a percentage of net sales decreased to 32.8% in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 from 34.0% in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 and decreased to 33.0% in the first six months of fiscal 2019 from 34.4% in the same period of fiscal 2018.  



 Cost of sales and gross margin are subject to variability in raw material prices which continue to fluctuate for many of the raw materials used in the manufacture of our products. We expect to purchase approximately 175 million pounds of 





 Table of Contents  







 Operating Expenses  







 Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses. Selling, general, and administrative expenses decreased $36 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 from the second quarter of fiscal 2018 due primarily to cost control measures and savings attributable to restructuring actions as well as reduced selling expenses and lower incentive compensation costs. Selling, general, and administrative expenses decreased $24 million in the first six months of fiscal 2019 from the same period of fiscal 2018 due primarily to cost control measures and savings attributable to restructuring actions as well as lower incentive compensation costs. Selling, general, and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales decreased to 10.9% in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 from 11.5% in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 and decreased to 11.3% in the first six months of fiscal 2019 from 11.4% in the same period of fiscal 2018.  



 Restructuring and Other Charges, Net. We are committed to continuous productivity improvements and consistently evaluate opportunities to simplify our global manufacturing footprint, migrate facilities to lower‑cost regions, reduce fixed costs, and eliminate excess capacity. These initiatives are designed to help us maintain our competitiveness in the industry, improve our operating leverage, and position us for future growth.  



 During fiscal 2019, we initiated a restructuring program associated with footprint consolidation and structural improvements impacting all segments. During fiscal 2018, we initiated a restructuring program associated with footprint consolidation and structural improvements primarily impacting the Industrial Solutions and Transportation Solutions segments. In connection with these initiatives, we incurred net restructuring charges of $117 million during the first six months of fiscal 2019, of which $107 million related to the fiscal 2019 restructuring program. Annualized cost savings related to the fiscal 2019 actions commenced during the first six months of fiscal 2019 are expected to be approximately $100 million and are expected to be realized by the end of fiscal 2021. Cost savings will be reflected primarily in cost of sales and selling, general, and administrative expenses.  



 In response to market weakness, we are initiating incremental restructuring actions, primarily in our Transportation Solutions segment, to broaden the scope of our cost reduction initiatives and accelerate cost reduction and factory footprint consolidation activities. These incremental actions, which are primarily comprised of employee severance, are expected to result in incremental restructuring charges of approximately $100 million during fiscal 2019.  



 In fiscal 2019, we expect total restructuring charges to be approximately $250 million, and we expect total spending, which will be funded with cash from operations, to be approximately $140 million.  





 Table of Contents  



 See Note 2 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding net restructuring and other charges.  



 Operating Income  











 See discussion of operating income below under “Segment Results.”  



 Non‑Operating Items  







 Interest Expense. Interest expense decreased $13 million and $12 million during the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019, respectively, due primarily to the expansion of our cross-currency swap program in fiscal 2019. Under the terms of the fiscal 2019 contracts, we receive interest in U.S. dollars at a weighted-average rate of 3.00% per annum and pay no interest. See Note 9 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our cross-currency swap program.  



 Income Taxes. See Note 11 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of items impacting income tax expense for the second quarters and first six months of fiscal 2019 and 2018.  





 Table of Contents  



 Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations, Net of Income Taxes. During the first six months of fiscal 2019, we sold our SubCom business for net cash proceeds of $297 million and incurred a pre‑tax loss on sale of $86 million. The net sales of the business were $41 million and $326 million in the first six months of fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively. The results for the first six months of fiscal 2019 represent one month of activity. In the first six months of fiscal 2018, net sales and operating income were negatively impacted by production delays on a program. See Note 3 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding discontinued operations.  



 Segment Results  



 Transportation Solutions  







   (1)    Industry end market information is presented consistently with our internal management reporting and may be revised periodically as management deems necessary. 









   ·    Automotive—Our organic net sales decreased 4.6% in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 with declines of 9.8% and 3.4% in the Asia–Pacific and EMEA regions, respectively, partially offset by growth of 4.0% in the Americas region. Our declines in the Asia–Pacific and EMEA regions were driven by market weakness. In the Americas region, our growth resulted from electronification and market share gains. 



   ·    Commercial transportation—Our organic net sales increased 1.6% in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 due to content and share gains in the Americas and EMEA regions, partially offset by weakness in the Asia–Pacific region. 



   ·    Sensors—Our organic net sales increased 1.0% in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 due primarily to growth in the industrial equipment market. 





 Table of Contents  





   ·    Automotive—Our organic net sales decreased 2.6% in the first six months of fiscal 2019 due to declines of 6.4% and 3.1% in the Asia–Pacific and EMEA regions, respectively, partially offset by growth of 7.8% in the Americas region. Our declines in the Asia–Pacific and EMEA regions resulted from market weakness. In the Americas region, our growth was attributable to electronification and market share gains. 



   ·    Commercial transportation—Our organic net sales increased 1.6% in the first six months of fiscal 2019 as a result of content and share gains in the Americas and EMEA regions, partially offset by declines in the Asia–Pacific region. 



   ·    Sensors—Our organic net sales increased 2.3% in the first six months of fiscal 2019 primarily as a result of growth in the industrial equipment market. 











 Excluding these items, operating income decreased in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019 due primarily to the unfavorable impact of product mix and price erosion.  





 Table of Contents  



 Industrial Solutions  







   (1)    Industry end market information is presented consistently with our internal management reporting and may be revised periodically as management deems necessary. 









   ·    Industrial equipment—Our organic net sales increased 0.8% in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 due primarily to strength in medical applications, partially offset by market weakness in factory automation and controls. 



   ·    Aerospace, defense, oil, and gas—Our organic net sales increased 13.3% in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 primarily as a result of strength in the commercial aerospace, defense, and oil and gas markets. 



   ·    Energy—Our organic net sales increased 4.2% in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 due primarily to strength in the Americas region. 





   ·    Industrial equipment—Our organic net sales were flat in the first six months of fiscal 2019 with strength in medical applications offset by market weakness in factory automation and controls. 



   ·    Aerospace, defense, oil, and gas—Our organic net sales increased 13.1% in the first six months of fiscal 2019 due primarily to growth in the commercial aerospace, defense, and oil and gas markets. 





 Table of Contents  



   ·    Energy—Our organic net sales increased 5.0% in the first six months of fiscal 2019 primarily as a result of strength in the Americas region. 











 Excluding these items, operating income increased in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019 primarily as a result of higher volume.  



 Communications Solutions  







   (1)    Industry end market information is presented consistently with our internal management reporting and may be revised periodically as management deems necessary. 





 Table of Contents  









   ·    Data and devices—Our organic net sales were flat in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 with market weakness in the Asia–Pacific region offset by growth in high speed connectivity in data center applications. 



   ·    Appliances—Our organic net sales decreased 4.1% in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 due to market weakness in the Asia–Pacific and EMEA regions, partially offset by growth in the Americas region. 





   ·    Data and devices—Our organic net sales increased 4.5% in the first six months of fiscal 2019 primarily as a result of increased sales to cloud infrastructure customers and growth in high speed connectivity in data center applications. 



   ·    Appliances—Our organic net sales decreased 2.9% in the first six months of fiscal 2019 as a result of market weakness in the Asia–Pacific and EMEA regions, partially offset by growth in the Americas region. 











 Excluding these items, operating income increased slightly in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019 as compared to the same periods of fiscal 2018.  





 Table of Contents  



 Liquidity and Capital Resources  



 Our ability to fund our future capital needs will be affected by our ability to continue to generate cash from operations and may be affected by our ability to access the capital markets, money markets, or other sources of funding, as well as the capacity and terms of our financing arrangements. We believe that cash generated from operations and, to the extent necessary, these other sources of potential funding will be sufficient to meet our anticipated capital needs for the foreseeable future, including the payment of $250 million of 2.35% senior notes due in 2019. We may use excess cash to purchase a portion of our common shares pursuant to our authorized share repurchase program, to acquire strategic businesses or product lines, to pay dividends on our common shares, or to reduce our outstanding debt. The cost or availability of future funding may be impacted by financial market conditions. We will continue to monitor financial markets and respond as necessary to changing conditions.  



 Cash Flows from Operating Activities  



 In the first six months of fiscal 2019, net cash provided by continuing operating activities increased $238 million to $883 million from $645 million in the first six months of fiscal 2018. The increase resulted primarily from higher collections of accounts receivable and fluctuations in cash collateral requirements under our cross-currency swap contracts.  



 The amount of income taxes paid, net of refunds, during the first six months of fiscal 2019 and 2018 was $177 million and $208 million, respectively.  



 Cash Flows from Investing Activities  



 Capital expenditures were $401 million and $439 million in the first six months of fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively. We expect fiscal 2019 capital spending levels to be approximately 5‑6% of net sales. We believe our capital funding levels are adequate to support new programs, and we continue to invest in our manufacturing infrastructure to further enhance productivity and manufacturing capabilities.  



 During the first six months of fiscal 2019, we received net cash proceeds of $297 million related to the sale of our SubCom business. See additional information in Note 3 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.  



 Cash Flows from Financing Activities and Capitalization  



 Total debt at March 29, 2019 and September 28, 2018 was $3,982 million and $4,000 million, respectively. See Note 7 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding debt.  



 During the first six months of fiscal 2019, Tyco Electronics Group S.A. (“TEGSA”), our 100%‑owned subsidiary, issued $350 million aggregate principal amount of senior floating rate notes due June 2020. The notes bear interest at a rate of three‑month London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) plus 0.45% per year. The notes are TEGSA’s unsecured senior obligations and rank equally in right of payment with all existing and any future senior indebtedness of TEGSA and senior to any subordinated indebtedness that TEGSA may incur.  



 During the first six months of fiscal 2019, TEGSA repaid, at maturity, $325 million 2.375% senior notes due 2018.  



 TEGSA has a five‑year unsecured senior revolving credit facility (“Credit Facility”) with total commitments of $1,500 million. The Credit Facility was amended in November 2018 primarily to extend the maturity date from December 2020 to November 2023. The amended Credit Facility contains provisions that allow for incremental commitments of up to $500 million, an option to temporarily increase the financial ratio covenant following a qualified acquisition, and borrowings in designated currencies. TEGSA had no borrowings under the Credit Facility at March 29, 2019 or September 28, 2018.  



 The Credit Facility contains a financial ratio covenant providing that if, as of the last day of each fiscal quarter, our ratio of Consolidated Total Debt to Consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the Credit Facility) for the then most recently concluded period of four consecutive fiscal quarters exceeds 3.75 to 1.0, an Event of Default (as defined in the Credit Facility) is triggered. The Credit Facility and our other debt agreements contain other customary covenants. None of our 





 Table of Contents  



covenants are presently considered restrictive to our operations. As of March 29, 2019, we were in compliance with all of our debt covenants and believe that we will continue to be in compliance with our existing covenants for the foreseeable future.  



 In addition to the Credit Facility, TEGSA is the borrower under our senior notes and commercial paper. TEGSA’s payment obligations under its senior notes, commercial paper, and Credit Facility are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by its parent, TE Connectivity Ltd.  



 Payments of common share dividends to shareholders were $299 million and $281 million in the first six months of fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively.  



 In March 2019, our shareholders approved a dividend payment to shareholders of $1.84 per share, payable in four equal quarterly installments of $0.46 per share beginning in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 and ending in the second quarter of fiscal 2020.  



 During the first six months of fiscal 2019, our board of directors authorized an increase of $1.5 billion in the share repurchase program. We repurchased approximately 9 million of our common shares for $684 million and approximately 4 million of our common shares for $383 million under our share repurchase program during the first six months of fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively. At March 29, 2019, we had $1.8 billion of availability remaining under our share repurchase authorization.  



 Commitments and Contingencies  



 Legal Proceedings  



 In the normal course of business, we are subject to various legal proceedings and claims, including patent infringement claims, product liability matters, employment disputes, disputes on agreements, other commercial disputes, environmental matters, antitrust claims, and tax matters, including non‑income tax matters such as value added tax, sales and use tax, real estate tax, and transfer tax. Although it is not feasible to predict the outcome of these proceedings, based upon our experience, current information, and applicable law, we do not expect that the outcome of these proceedings, either individually or in the aggregate, will have a material effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows.  



 Guarantees  



 In certain instances, we have guaranteed the performance of third parties and provided financial guarantees for uncompleted work and financial commitments. The terms of these guarantees vary with end dates ranging from fiscal 2019 through the completion of such transactions. The guarantees would be triggered in the event of nonperformance, and the potential exposure for nonperformance under the guarantees would not have a material effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows.  





 At March 29, 2019, we had outstanding letters of credit, letters of guarantee, and surety bonds of $307 million.  



 As discussed above, in the first six months of fiscal 2019, we sold our SubCom business. In connection with the sale, we contractually agreed to continue to honor performance guarantees and letters of credit related to the SubCom business’ projects that existed as of the date of sale. These guarantees had a combined value of approximately $1.7 billion as of March 29, 2019 and are expected to expire at various dates through fiscal 2025; however, the majority are expected to expire within two years. Also, under the terms of the definitive agreement, we are required to issue up to $300 million of new performance guarantees, subject to certain limitations, for projects entered into by the SubCom business following the sale for a period of up to three years. During the first six months of fiscal 2019, we issued a guarantee of $70 million for a new project. We have contractual recourse against the SubCom business if we are required to perform on any SubCom 





 Table of Contents  



guarantees; however, based on historical experience, we do not anticipate having to perform. See Note 3 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the divestiture of the SubCom business.  



 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  



 The preparation of the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities, and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses.  



 Our accounting policies for revenue recognition, goodwill and other intangible assets, income taxes, and pension liabilities are based on, among other things, judgments and assumptions made by management. For additional information regarding these policies and the underlying accounting assumptions and estimates used in these policies, refer to the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes contained in our Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2018. Except as set forth below, there were no significant changes to this information during the first six months of fiscal 2019.  



 Revenue Recognition  



 We adopted Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. See Note 1 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our revenue recognition policy and the adoption of ASC 606.  



 Accounting Pronouncements  



 See Note 1 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding recently issued and adopted accounting pronouncements.  



 Non‑GAAP Financial Measure  



 Organic Net Sales Growth  



 We present organic net sales growth as we believe it is appropriate for investors to consider this adjusted financial measure in addition to results in accordance with GAAP. Organic net sales growth represents net sales growth (the most comparable GAAP financial measure) excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rates, and acquisitions and divestitures that occurred in the preceding twelve months, if any. Organic net sales growth is a useful measure of our performance because it excludes items that are not completely under management’s control, such as the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, and items that do not reflect the underlying growth of the company, such as acquisition and divestiture activity.  



 Organic net sales growth provides useful information about our results and the trends of our business. Management uses organic net sales growth to monitor and evaluate performance. Also, management uses organic net sales growth together with GAAP financial measures in its decision‑making processes related to the operations of our reportable segments and our overall company. It is also a significant component in our incentive compensation plans. We believe that investors benefit from having access to the same financial measures that management uses in evaluating operations. The tables presented in “Results of Operations” and “Segment Results” provide reconciliations of organic net sales growth to net sales growth calculated in accordance with GAAP.  



 Organic net sales growth is a non‑GAAP financial measure and should not be considered a replacement for results in accordance with GAAP. This non‑GAAP financial measure may not be comparable to similarly‑titled measures reported by other companies. The primary limitation of this measure is that it excludes the financial impact of items that would otherwise either increase or decrease our reported results. This limitation is best addressed by using organic net sales growth in combination with net sales growth in order to better understand the amounts, character, and impact of any increase or decrease in reported amounts.  





 Table of Contents  



 Forward‑Looking Information  



 Certain statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q are “forward‑looking statements” within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on our management’s beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to our management. Forward‑looking statements include, among others, the information concerning our possible or assumed future results of operations, business strategies, financing plans, competitive position, potential growth opportunities, potential operating performance improvements, acquisitions, divestitures, the effects of competition, and the effects of future legislation or regulations. Forward‑looking statements include all statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by the use of forward‑looking terminology such as the words “believe,” “expect,” “plan,” “intend,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “predict,” “potential,” “continue,” “may,” “should,” or the negative of these terms or similar expressions.  



 Forward‑looking statements involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed in these forward‑looking statements. Investors should not place undue reliance on any forward‑looking statements. We do not have any intention or obligation to update forward‑looking statements after we file this report except as required by law.  





   ·    conditions in the global or regional economies and global capital markets, and cyclical industry conditions; 



   ·    conditions affecting demand for products in the industries we serve, particularly the automotive industry; 



   ·    competition and pricing pressure; 



   ·    market acceptance of our new product introductions and product innovations and product life cycles; 



   ·    raw material availability, quality, and cost; 



   ·    fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and impacts of offsetting hedges; 



   ·    financial condition and consolidation of customers and vendors; 



   ·    reliance on third‑party suppliers; 



   ·    risks associated with current and future acquisitions and divestitures; 



   ·    global risks of business interruptions such as natural disasters and political, economic, and military instability; 



   ·    risks associated with security breaches and other disruptions to our information technology infrastructure; 



   ·    risks related to compliance with current and future environmental and other laws and regulations; 



   ·    our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; 



   ·    risks of litigation; 



   ·    our ability to operate within the limitations imposed by our debt instruments; 





 Table of Contents  



   ·    the possible effects on us of various non‑U.S. and U.S. legislative proposals, including Swiss Tax Reform, and other initiatives that, if adopted, could materially increase our worldwide corporate effective tax rate and negatively impact our U.S. government contracts business; 



   ·    various risks associated with being a Swiss corporation; 



   ·    the impact of fluctuations in the market price of our shares; and 



   ·    the impact of certain provisions of our articles of association on unsolicited takeover proposals. 



 There may be other risks and uncertainties that we are unable to predict at this time or that we currently do not expect to have a material adverse effect on our business.  



 ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS  



 Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  









   (i)    the acquisition of 16,751 common shares from individuals in order to satisfy tax withholding requirements in connection with the vesting of restricted share awards issued under equity compensation plans; and 



   (ii)    open market purchases totaling 2,347,300 common shares, summarized on a trade‑date basis, in conjunction with the share repurchase program announced in September 2007. 



   (2)    Our share repurchase program authorizes us to purchase a portion of our outstanding common shares from time to time through open market or private transactions, depending on business and market conditions. The share repurchase program does not have an expiration date. 





 Table of Contents  



 ITEM 6. EXHIBITS  











 Table of Contents  



 SIGNATURES  



 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  







