fls.txt



item1.txt
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU No.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).
The adoption of the ASU did not have a material impact on the Company's results of operations.
See Note 2 and "Changes in Accounting Policies" below.
Upon adoption of the ASU, the Company will recognize lease assets and liabilities for its operating leases which are not currently reported on its consolidated balance sheets.
Except for the changes described in "Recently Adopted Accounting Guidance" above and in this section below, the Company has consistently applied the accounting policies described in its Note 1 to its audited consolidated financial statement included in its annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, to all periods presented in these consolidated condensed financial statements.
As a result, the Company has changed its accounting policy for revenue recognition.
Upon adoption of ASU 2014-09, the Company considers its warranty obligations as service-type warranties and allocates a portion of the estimated consideration to be received from the related contract to the service-type warranty performance obligation and recognizes the related revenue over the warranty period.
The impact of accounting for service-type warranties as separate performance obligations was not significant in the retrospective adoption period and is included in the tables below.
The Company previously recognized revenue when the sales process was completed, which generally occurred when the product was delivered and risk of loss was transferred to the customer.


item2.txt
We expect to continue our strategy of acquisitions while also maintaining a prudent capital structure.
The quarterly cash dividend was increased by 26% to $0.085 per share in the second fiscal quarter of 2018.
In December 2015, we amended our credit facility to increase our ability to repurchase shares of stock or pay cash dividends.
The Company repurchased 2,250,236 shares of stock for $39.9 million pursuant to the stock repurchase plan that expired on June 1, 2018.
In the second fiscal quarter of 2018, we issued $600 million convertible senior notes due 2025.
We used the net proceeds from the issuance of these notes to repurchase $220.0 million and $69.1 million principal amount of convertible senior debentures due 2040 and due 2042, respectively.
As part of the amendment and restatement of the revolving credit facility in December 2015, we completed an evaluation of our anticipated domestic cash needs over the next several years and our most efficient use of liquidity, with consideration of the amount of cash that can be repatriated to the U.S. efficiently with lesser withholding taxes in foreign jurisdictions.
We repatriated approximately $274.0 million and $450.0 million to the United States, and paid withholding and foreign taxes of approximately $92.1 million and $64.7 million in the second and third fiscal quarters of 2018, respectively.
A portion of the amounts repatriated in the third fiscal quarter were used to eliminate the remaining outstanding balance of the credit facility.
The provisional tax expense recorded in the fourth quarter of 2017 related to the enactment of the TCJA included these amounts paid in the second and third fiscal quarters of 2018.
Our cost reduction programs are more fully described in Note 4 to the consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1, and in "Cost Management" below.
We utilize several financial metrics, including net revenues, gross profit margin, segment operating income, end-of-period backlog, book-to-bill ratio, inventory turnover, change in average selling prices, net cash and short-term investments (debt), and free cash generation to evaluate the performance and assess the future direction of our business.
In the first fiscal quarter of 2018, we retrospectively adopted two new accounting standards, which impacted previously reported net revenues, gross profit margin, and segment operating income.
See additional information in Note 1 to the consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1.
Net revenues continued to increase and are significantly higher than the prior year quarter.


item3.txt
Part II, Item 7A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk," of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on February 16, 2018, describes our exposure to market risks.
On September 17, 2018, the Korea Fair Trade Commission ("KFTC") announced a fine of approximately $32 thousand against Vishay Polytech Co., Ltd. ("VPC"), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, for violations of applicable antitrust laws.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Part II, Item 7A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk," of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on February 16, 2018, describes our exposure to market risks.
Item 1.


