In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU No.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).
The adoption of the ASU did not have a material impact on the Company's results of operations.
See Note 2 and "Changes in Accounting Policies" below.
Upon adoption of the ASU, the Company will recognize lease assets and liabilities for its operating leases which are not currently reported on its consolidated balance sheets.
Except for the changes described in "Recently Adopted Accounting Guidance" above and in this section below, the Company has consistently applied the accounting policies described in its Note 1 to its audited consolidated financial statement included in its annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, to all periods presented in these consolidated condensed financial statements.Since 1985, we have pursued a business strategy of growth through focused research and development and acquisitions.
We expect to continue our strategy of acquisitions while also maintaining a prudent capital structure.
In December 2015, we amended our credit facility to increase our ability to repurchase shares of stock or pay cash dividends.
On August 2, 2017, our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase plan, authorizing us to repurchase, in the aggregate, up to $150 million of our outstanding common stock.
The stock repurchase plan does not obligate us to acquire any particular amount of common stock, and it may be terminated or suspended at any time at the Company's direction in accordance with the plan.
The Company repurchased 2,250,236 shares of stock for $39.9 million since the inception of this plan.
No repurchases were made in the first fiscal quarter of 2018.
As part of the amendment and restatement of the revolving credit facility in December 2015, we completed an evaluation of our anticipated domestic cash needs over the next several years and our most efficient use of liquidity, with consideration of the amount of cash that can be repatriated to the U.S. efficiently with lesser withholding taxes in foreign jurisdictions.
In the fourth fiscal quarter of 2017, we substantially completed our cost reduction programs, which had been ongoing since 2013.
Our cost reduction programs are more fully described in Note 4 to the consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1, and in "Cost Management" below.
We utilize several financial metrics, including net revenues, gross profit margin, segment operating income, end-of-period backlog, book-to-bill ratio, inventory turnover, change in average selling prices, net cash and short-term investments (debt), and free cash generation to evaluate the performance and assess the future direction of our business.Item 5.Item 4.