item1.txt
Richardson Electronics, Ltd. is a leading global provider of engineered solutions, power grid and microwave tubes and related consumables; power conversion and RF and microwave components; high value flat panel detector solutions, replacement parts, tubes and service training for diagnostic imaging equipment; and customized display solutions.
The Company provides solutions and adds value through design-in support, systems integration, prototype design and manufacturing, testing, logistics and aftermarket technical service and repair through its global infrastructure.
Canvys provides customized display solutions serving the corporate enterprise, financial, healthcare, industrial and medical original equipment manufacturers markets.
We offer long term availability and proven custom display solutions that include touch screens, protective panels, custom enclosures, all-in-ones, specialized cabinet finishes and application specific software packages and certification services.
We partner with both private label manufacturing companies and leading branded hardware vendors to offer the highest quality display and touch solutions and customized computing platforms.
Healthcare manufactures, refurbishes and distributes high value replacement parts for the healthcare market including hospitals, medical centers, asset management companies, independent service organizations and multi-vendor service providers.
Through a combination of newly developed products and partnerships, service offerings and training programs, we believe we can help our customers improve efficiency and deliver better clinical outcomes while lowering the cost of healthcare delivery.
The financial information contained in this report should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 1, 2019, that we filed on August 5, 2019.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2014-09 (“ASU 2014-09”), Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which amends guidance for revenue recognition.
ASU 2014-09 is principles based guidance that can be applied to all contracts with customers, enhancing comparability of revenue recognition practices across entities, industries, jurisdictions and capital markets.
The core principle of the guidance is that entities should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods and services.
Effective June 3, 2018, the Company adopted the standard using the modified retrospective method to all contracts.
As a result, financial information for the reporting period beginning June 3, 2018 was reported under the new standard, while comparative financial information has not been adjusted and continues to be reported in accordance with the previous standard.
The adoption of this standard did not impact the timing of revenue recognition for our customer sales.
For the Company, the most significant impact of the new standard is the addition of required disclosures within the notes to the financial statements.
The Company recognizes services revenue when the repair, installation or training is performed.
Based on our analysis of services revenue, ASU 2014-09 has an immaterial impact on the timing, amount or characterization of services revenue recognized by the Company.
The services revenue has consistently accounted for less than 5% of the Company’s total revenues and is expected to continue at that level.
A revenue contract exists for us once a customer purchase order is received, reviewed and accepted.
Contract assets arise when the Company transfers a good or performs a service in advance of receiving consideration from the customer and contract liabilities arise when the Company receives consideration from its customer in advance of performance.
The transaction price for each product is the amount invoiced to the customer.
With the exception of sale with right of return, variable consideration has been identified only in the form of customer early payment discounts, which are immaterial to the Company’s financial statements.
Although there is not a material impact on our financial statements, we will continue to account for customer discounts when they are taken by the customer and address further if they grow.
We recognize revenue when title transfers to the customer, at the shipping point for FOB shipping contracts and at the customer’s delivery location for FOB destination contracts.
The Company maintains a reserve for returns based on historical trends that covers all contracts and revenue streams using the expected value method because we have a large number of contracts with similar characteristics, which is considered variable consideration.
We value the inventory at cost due to there being minimal or no costs to the Company as we generally require the customer to pay freight and we typically do not have costs associated with activities such as relabeling or repackaging.
Principal versus agent guidance was considered for customized products that are provided by our suppliers versus manufactured by the Company.
We have primary responsibility for fulfilling the contract, we have inventory risk prior to delivery to our customer, we establish prices, our consideration is not in the form of a commission and we bear the credit risk.
The Company recognizes revenue in the gross amount of consideration.
The new standard was effective for the Company on June 2, 2019.
The FASB issued ASU 2018-11, targeted improvements to Topic 842, which includes an option to not restate comparative periods in transition and elect to use the effective date of Topic 842 as the date of initial application of transition.
As a result of adopting Topic 842, we recognized operating right-of-use assets of $3.6 million, finance right-of-use assets of $0.5 million, operating lease liabilities of $3.8 million and finance lease liabilities of $0.5 million.
Existing deferred rent of $0.2 million was recorded as an offset to our gross operating lease right-of-use assets.
The Company will revise the value of the right of use assets and associated lease liabilities when the Company is reasonably certain it will renew the lease.
The Company recorded $0.4 million of lease expense in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
On June 2, 2019, the Company elected the modified retrospective method of transition to adopt the new lease standard Topic 842, which resulted in no restatement of prior period results.
At June 1, 2019, prior to adoption of the new lease standard, operating lease obligations were not included as a liability on the balance sheet.
Canvys provides customized display solutions serving the corporate enterprise, financial, healthcare, industrial and medical original equipment manufacturers markets.
We offer long term availability and proven custom display solutions that include touch screens, protective panels, custom enclosures, all-in-ones, specialized cabinet finishes and application specific software packages and certification services.
We partner with both private label manufacturing companies and leading branded hardware vendors to offer the highest quality display and touch solutions and customized computing platforms.
Healthcare manufactures, refurbishes and distributes high value replacement parts for the healthcare market including hospitals, medical centers, asset management companies, independent service organizations and multi-vendor service providers.
Through a combination of newly developed products and partnerships, service offerings and training programs, we believe we can help our customers improve efficiency and deliver better clinical outcomes while lowering the cost of healthcare delivery.
On June 15, 2015, the Company entered into a lease agreement for the IMES facility with LDL, LLC.
The lease agreement provides for monthly payments over five years with total future minimum lease payments of $0.1 million.
The Company shall be entitled to extend the term of the lease for a period of an additional five years by notifying the landlord in writing of its intention to do so within six months of the expiration of the initial term.
There have been no material changes to the risk factors previously disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 1, 2019, filed August 5, 2019.


item2.txt
Net sales during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 were $40.7 million, a decrease of 7.9%, compared to net sales of $44.2 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Selling, general and administrative expenses were $12.8 million, or 31.6% of net sales, during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to $13.1 million, or 29.7% of net sales, during the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Net income during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 was $0.2 million compared to net income of $0.4 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Consolidated gross profit decreased to $13.0 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to $14.0 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Consolidated gross margin as a percentage of net sales increased to 31.9% during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 from 31.6% during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, primarily due to favorable product mix and manufacturing over absorption for Healthcare somewhat offset by unfavorable product mix and unfavorable foreign exchange rates for Canvys.
PMT net sales decreased 12.1% to $30.6 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 from $34.8 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Gross margin as a percentage of net sales was 31.7% during the first quarter of fiscal 2020, the same as 31.7% during the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Canvys net sales increased 1.4% to $7.3 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 from $7.2 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 due to increased customer demand in its North American market.
Gross margin as a percentage of net sales decreased to 31.9% during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 as compared to 32.2% during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, due to unfavorable product mix and foreign exchange.
Healthcare net sales increased 26.8% to $2.8 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 from $2.2 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 due to higher CT tube and parts sales.
Gross margin as a percentage of net sales increased to 33.9% during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 as compared to 28.6% during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 due to favorable product mix and manufacturing over absorption.
Operating activities used $2.1 million of cash during the first three months of fiscal 2020.
We had net income of $0.2 million during the first three months of fiscal 2020, which included non-cash stock-based compensation expense of $0.2 million associated with the issuance of stock option and restricted stock awards, $0.2 million for inventory reserve provisions and depreciation and amortization expense of $0.8 million associated with our property and equipment as well as amortization of our intangible assets.
Changes in our operating assets and liabilities resulted in a use of cash of $3.3 million during the first three months of fiscal 2020, net of foreign currency exchange gains and losses, included a decrease of $4.0 million in accounts payable, an increase in inventory of $1.4 million, a decrease in accrued liabilities of $0.9 million partially offset by a decrease in accounts receivable of $2.2 million and a decrease of $0.6 million in prepaid expenses and other assets.
Operating activities used $3.6 million of cash during the first three months of fiscal 2019.
We had net income of $0.4 million during the first three months of fiscal 2019, which included non-cash stock-based compensation expense of $0.2 million associated with the issuance of stock option and restricted stock awards, $0.2 million for inventory reserve provisions and depreciation and amortization expense of $0.8 million associated with our property and equipment as well as amortization of our intangible assets.
Changes in our operating assets and liabilities resulted in a use of cash of $5.3 million during the first three months of fiscal 2019, net of foreign currency exchange gains and losses, included a decrease of $5.4 million in accounts payable and an increase in accounts receivable of $0.2 million, partially offset by an increase in accrued liabilities of $0.2 million.
Cash provided by investing activities of $7.7 million during the first three months of fiscal 2020 included proceeds from the maturities of investments of $8.0 million partially offset by $0.3 million in capital expenditures.
Cash used in investing activities of $3.4 million during the first three months of fiscal 2019 included $2.3 million from purchases of investments and $1.1 million in capital expenditures.
Cash used in financing activities of $0.6 million during the first three months of fiscal 2019 resulted from $0.8 million of cash used to pay dividends partially offset by $0.2 million of proceeds from the issuance of common stock from stock option exercises.


item4.txt
Management of the Company, with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”)) as of August 31, 2019.


part2.txt
ITEM 1A.
ITEM 2.


