item1.txt
Richardson Electronics, Ltd. is a leading global provider of engineered solutions, power grid and microwave tubes and related consumables; power conversion and RF and microwave components; high value flat panel detector solutions, replacement parts, tubes and service training for diagnostic imaging equipment; and customized display solutions.
The Company’s strategy is to provide specialized technical expertise and “engineered solutions” based on our core engineering and manufacturing capabilities.
The Company provides solutions and adds value through design-in support, systems integration, prototype design and manufacturing, testing, logistics and aftermarket technical service and repair through its global infrastructure.
Canvys provides customized display solutions serving the corporate enterprise, financial, healthcare, industrial and medical original equipment manufacturers markets.
We offer long term availability and proven custom display solutions that include touch screens, protective panels, custom enclosures, all-in-ones, specialized cabinet finishes and application specific software packages and certification services.
We partner with both private label manufacturing companies and leading branded hardware vendors to offer the highest quality display and touch solutions and customized computing platforms.
Healthcare manufactures, refurbishes and distributes high value replacement parts for the healthcare market including hospitals, medical centers, asset management companies, independent service organizations and multi-vendor service providers.
Through a combination of newly developed products and partnerships, service offerings and training programs, we believe we can help our customers improve efficiency and deliver better clinical outcomes while lowering the cost of healthcare delivery.
The financial information contained in this report should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 2, 2018, that we filed on August 2, 2018.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2014-09 (“ASU 2014-09”), Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which amends guidance for revenue recognition.
ASU 2014-09 is principles based guidance that can be applied to all contracts with customers, enhancing comparability of revenue recognition practices across entities, industries, jurisdictions and capital markets.
The core principle of the guidance is that entities should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods and services.
Effective June 3, 2018, the Company adopted the standard using the modified retrospective method to all contracts.
As a result, financial information for the reporting period beginning June 3, 2018 was reported under the new standard, while comparative financial information has not been adjusted and continues to be reported in accordance with the previous standard.
The adoption of this standard did not impact the timing of revenue recognition for our customer sales.
For the Company, the most significant impact of the new standard is the addition of required disclosures within the notes to the financial statements.
If after reviewing the totality of events or circumstances, we determine that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, then we test for impairment through the application of a fair value based test.
We estimate the fair value of each of our reporting units based on projected future operating results, market approach and discounted cash flows.
Intangible assets are initially recorded at their fair market values determined on quoted market prices in active markets, if available, or recognized valuation models.
Our intangible assets represent the fair value for trade name, customer relationships, non-compete agreements and technology acquired in connection with the acquisition.
The Company recognizes services revenue when the repair, installation or training is performed.
Based on our analysis of services revenue, ASU 2014-09 has an immaterial impact on the timing, amount or characterization of services revenue recognized by the Company.
The services revenue has consistently accounted for less than 5% of the Company’s total revenues and is expected to continue at that level.
A revenue contract exists for us once a customer purchase order is received, reviewed and accepted.
Contract assets arise when the Company transfers a good or performs a service in advance of receiving consideration from the customer and contract liabilities arise when the Company receives consideration from its customer in advance of performance.
The Company receives advances or deposits from our customers before revenue is recognized, resulting in contract liabilities.
With the exception of sale with right of return, variable consideration has been identified only in the form of customer early payment discounts, which are immaterial to the Company’s financial statements.
Although there is not a material impact on our financial statements, we will continue to account for customer discounts when they are taken by the customer and address further if they grow.
We recognize revenue when title transfers to the customer, at the shipping point for FOB shipping contracts and at the customer’s delivery location for FOB destination contracts.
The Company maintains a reserve for returns based on historical trends that covers all contracts and revenue streams using the expected value method because we have a large number of contracts with similar characteristics, which is considered variable consideration.
We value the inventory at cost due to there being minimal or no costs to the Company as we generally require the customer to pay freight and we typically do not have costs associated with activities such as relabeling or repackaging.
For products the Company does not offer a warranty, these products are covered by our suppliers.
This is due to that, in most instances, the Company’s warranty is not utilized due to our supplier’s warranty still covers the necessary repairs or replacements.
Principal versus agent guidance was considered for customized products that are provided by our suppliers versus in-house.
We have primary responsibility for fulfilling the contract, we have inventory risk prior to delivery to our customer, we establish prices, our consideration is not in the form of a commission and we bear the credit risk.
The Company recognizes revenue in the gross amount of consideration.
For products the Company does not offer a warranty, these products are covered by our suppliers.
We estimate the cost to perform under the warranty obligation and recognize this estimated cost at the time of the related product sale.
We record expense related to our warranty obligations as cost of sales in our consolidated statements of comprehensive (loss) income.
With respect to new products, estimates are based generally on knowledge of the products, the extended warranty period and warranty experience.
Warranty reserves are established for costs that are expected to be incurred after the sale and delivery of products under warranty.
The difference in rate during the first three months of fiscal 2019, as compared to the first three months of fiscal 2018, reflects the change from overall loss to overall income realized through the first quarter in each respective period, changes in our geographical distribution of income (loss), the recording of provision to return true-ups of various foreign jurisdictions and our positions with respect to ASC 740-30, Income Taxes - Other Considerations or Special Areas.
Canvys provides customized display solutions serving the corporate enterprise, financial, healthcare, industrial and medical original equipment manufacturers markets.
We offer long term availability and proven custom display solutions that include touch screens, protective panels, custom enclosures, all-in-ones, specialized cabinet finishes and application specific software packages and certification services.
We partner with both private label manufacturing companies and leading branded hardware vendors to offer the highest quality display and touch solutions and customized computing platforms.
Healthcare manufactures, refurbishes and distributes high value replacement parts for the healthcare market including hospitals, medical centers, asset management companies, independent service organizations and multi-vendor service providers.
Through a combination of newly developed products and partnerships, service offerings and training programs, we believe we can help our customers improve efficiency and deliver better clinical outcomes while lowering the cost of healthcare delivery.
The lawsuit alleges claims for breach of fiduciary duty by the Company’s directors and challenges the decision of a special committee of the Company’s Board to refuse Mr. Busch’s demand that the Company’s Board, among other things, rescind the Company’s May 2013 repurchase of stock from Mr. Richardson  
The Company believes the lawsuit to be without merit and that a loss is not probable or estimable based on the information available at the time the financial statements were issued.
On June 15, 2015, the Company entered into a lease agreement for the IMES facility with LDL, LLC.
The Company shall be entitled to extend the term of the lease for a period of an additional five years by notifying the landlord in writing of its intention to do so within nine months of the expiration of the initial term.
The lawsuit alleges claims for breach of fiduciary duty by the Company’s directors and challenges the decision of a special committee of the Company’s Board to refuse Mr. Busch’s demand that the Company’s Board, among other things, rescind the Company’s May 2013 repurchase of stock from Mr. Richardson and May 2013 and October 2014 repurchases of Company stock from the Richardson Wildlife Foundation.
The Company believes the lawsuit to be without merit and that a loss is not probable or estimable based on the information available at the time the financial statements were issued.


item2.txt
Net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 were $44.2 million, an increase of 19.4%, compared to net sales of $37.0 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Selling, general and administrative expenses were $13.1 million, or 29.7% of net sales, for the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to $12.3 million, or 33.3% of net sales, for the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Net income during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was $0.4 million, compared to net loss of $0.1 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, consolidated net sales increased 19.4% compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Consolidated gross profit increased to $14.0 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to $12.1 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Consolidated gross margin as a percentage of net sales decreased to 31.6% during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, from 32.8% during the first quarter of fiscal 2018, primarily due to unfavorable product mix for PMT, unfavorable product mix and manufacturing variances for Richardson Healthcare, partially offset by favorable product mix and lower costs on selected products for Canvys.
PMT net sales increased 19.4% to $34.8 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, from $29.1 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Gross margin as a percentage of net sales decreased to 31.7% during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to 32.9% during the first quarter of fiscal 2018, due to unfavorable product mix.
Canvys net sales increased 24.4% to $7.2 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, from $5.8 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2018 due to increased customer demand in both our North American and European markets.
Gross margin as a percentage of net sales increased to 32.2% during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to 26.8% during the first quarter of fiscal 2018, due to favorable product mix and lower costs on selected products sold.
Healthcare net sales increased 5.2% to $2.2 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, from $2.1 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2018 due to increased Equipment and CT tube sales, partially offset by lower part sales.
Gross margin as a percentage of net sales decreased to 28.6% during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to 48.8% during the first quarter of fiscal 2018 due to an unfavorable product mix and manufacturing variances.
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased to $13.1 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 from $12.3 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Operating expenses as a percent of net sales decreased to 29.7% in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 from 33.3% in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
We had net income of $0.4 million during the first three months of fiscal 2019, which included non-cash stock-based compensation expense of $0.2 million associated with the issuance of stock option and restricted stock awards, $0.2 million for inventory reserve provisions and depreciation and amortization expense of $0.8 million associated with our property and equipment as well as amortization of our intangible assets.
Changes in our operating assets and liabilities resulted in a use of cash of $5.3 million during the first three months of fiscal 2019, net of foreign currency exchange gains and losses, included a decrease of $5.4 million in accounts payable and an increase in accounts receivable of $0.2 million, partially offset by an increase in accrued liabilities of $0.2 million.
Cash used in investing activities of $3.4 million during the first three months of fiscal 2019 included $2.3 million from purchases of investments and $1.1 million in capital expenditures.
Cash used in financing activities of $0.6 million during the first three months of fiscal 2019 resulted from $0.8 million of cash used to pay dividends partially offset by $0.2 million of proceeds from the issuance of common stock from stock option exercises.


item4.txt
Management of the Company, with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”)) as of September 1, 2018.


part2.txt
We held our annual meeting of stockholders on October 9, 2018.
At the annual meeting, our stockholders (i) elected each of the nominees listed below to the Company's Board of Directors to serve for a term expiring at the 2019 Annual Meeting; (ii) ratified the selection of BDO USA, LLP as our independent registered public accounting firm for fiscal year 2019; (iii) approved, on an advisory basis, the compensation of the Company's named executive officers, and (iv) approved an amendment to the 2011 Long-Term Incentive Plan to increase the number of shares available under the plan.


