item1.txt
Richardson Electronics, Ltd. is a leading global provider of engineered solutions, power grid and microwave tubes and related consumables; power conversion and RF and microwave components; high value flat panel detector solutions, replacement parts, tubes and service training for diagnostic imaging equipment; and customized display solutions.
The Company provides solutions and adds value through design-in support, systems integration, prototype design and manufacturing, testing, logistics and aftermarket technical service and repair through its global infrastructure.
Canvys provides customized display solutions serving the corporate enterprise, financial, healthcare, industrial and medical original equipment manufacturers markets.
We offer long term availability and proven custom display solutions that include touch screens, protective panels, custom enclosures, all-in-ones, specialized cabinet finishes and application specific software packages and certification services.
We partner with both private label manufacturing companies and leading branded hardware vendors to offer the highest quality display and touch solutions and customized computing platforms.
Healthcare manufactures, refurbishes and distributes high value replacement parts for the healthcare market including hospitals, medical centers, asset management companies, independent service organizations and multi-vendor service providers.
Products include Diagnostic Imaging replacement parts for CT and MRI systems; replacement CT and MRI tubes; CT service training; MRI coils, cold heads and RF amplifiers; hydrogen thyratrons, klystrons, magnetrons; flat panel detector upgrades; and additional replacement solutions currently under development for the diagnostic imaging service market.
Through a combination of newly developed products and partnerships, service offerings and training programs, we believe we can help our customers improve efficiency and deliver better clinical outcomes while lowering the cost of healthcare delivery.
The financial information contained in this report should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 2, 2018, that we filed on August 2, 2018.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2014-09 (“ASU 2014-09”), Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which amends guidance for revenue recognition.
ASU 2014-09 is principles based guidance that can be applied to all contracts with customers, enhancing comparability of revenue recognition practices across entities, industries, jurisdictions and capital markets.
The core principle of the guidance is that entities should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods and services.
For public entities, ASU 2014-09 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within that reporting period.
Effective June 3, 2018, the Company adopted the standard using the modified retrospective method to all contracts.
As a result, financial information for the reporting period beginning June 3, 2018 was reported under the new standard, while comparative financial information has not been adjusted and continues to be reported in accordance with the previous standard.
The adoption of this standard did not impact the timing of revenue recognition for our customer sales.
The adoption did not result in the recognition of a cumulative adjustment to beginning retained earnings, nor did it have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.
For the Company, the most significant impact of the new standard is the addition of required disclosures within the notes to the financial statements.
We estimate the fair value of each of our reporting units based on projected future operating results, market approach and discounted cash flows.
Intangible assets are initially recorded at their fair market values determined on quoted market prices in active markets, if available, or recognized valuation models.
Our intangible assets represent the fair value for trade name, customer relationships, non-compete agreements and technology acquired in connection with our acquisitions.
The Company recognizes services revenue when the repair, installation or training is performed.
Based on our analysis of services revenue, ASU 2014-09 has an immaterial impact on the timing, amount or characterization of services revenue recognized by the Company.
The services revenue has consistently accounted for less than 5% of the Company’s total revenues and is expected to continue at that level.
A revenue contract exists for us once a customer purchase order is received, reviewed and accepted.
Contract assets arise when the Company transfers a good or performs a service in advance of receiving consideration from the customer and contract liabilities arise when the Company receives consideration from its customer in advance of performance.
The Company receives advances or deposits from our customers before revenue is recognized, resulting in contract liabilities.
The transaction price for each product is the amount invoiced to the customer.
With the exception of sale with right of return, variable consideration has been identified only in the form of customer early payment discounts, which are immaterial to the Company’s financial statements.
Although there is not a material impact on our financial statements, we will continue to account for customer discounts when they are taken by the customer and address further if they grow.
We recognize revenue when title transfers to the customer, at the shipping point for FOB shipping contracts and at the customer’s delivery location for FOB destination contracts.
The Company maintains a reserve for returns based on historical trends that covers all contracts and revenue streams using the expected value method because we have a large number of contracts with similar characteristics, which is considered variable consideration.
We value the inventory at cost due to there being minimal or no costs to the Company as we generally require the customer to pay freight and we typically do not have costs associated with activities such as relabeling or repackaging.
For products the Company does not offer a warranty, these products are covered by our suppliers.
This is due to that, in most instances, the Company’s warranty is not utilized due to our supplier’s warranty still covers the necessary repairs or replacements.
Principal versus agent guidance was considered for customized products that are provided by our suppliers versus in-house.
We have primary responsibility for fulfilling the contract, we have inventory risk prior to delivery to our customer, we establish prices, our consideration is not in the form of a commission and we bear the credit risk.
The Company recognizes revenue in the gross amount of consideration.
For products the Company does not offer a warranty, these products are covered by our suppliers.
We estimate the cost to perform under the warranty obligation and recognize this estimated cost at the time of the related product sale.
We record expense related to our warranty obligations as cost of sales in our consolidated statements of comprehensive (loss) income.
Each quarter, we assess actual warranty costs incurred on a product-by-product basis and compare the warranty costs to our estimated warranty obligation.
With respect to new products, estimates are based generally on knowledge of the products, the extended warranty period and warranty experience.
Warranty reserves are established for costs that are expected to be incurred after the sale and delivery of products under warranty.
Warranty reserves are included in accrued liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets.
The new standard is effective for the Company on June 2, 2019, with early adoption permitted.
We currently believe the most significant effects relate to the recognition of new ROU assets and lease liabilities on our balance sheet for our operating leases and providing significant new disclosures about our leasing activities.
The Company continues to analyze the provisions of the Act addressing the net deferred tax asset remeasurement and its calculations, the deemed earnings repatriation, including the determination of undistributed non-U.S. earnings, and evaluate potential Company actions.
Canvys provides customized display solutions serving the corporate enterprise, financial, healthcare, industrial and medical original equipment manufacturers markets.
We offer long term availability and proven custom display solutions that include touch screens, protective panels, custom enclosures, all-in-ones, specialized cabinet finishes and application specific software packages and certification services.
We partner with both private label manufacturing companies and leading branded hardware vendors to offer the highest quality display and touch solutions and customized computing platforms.
Healthcare manufactures, refurbishes and distributes high value replacement parts for the healthcare market including hospitals, medical centers, asset management companies, independent service organizations and multi-vendor service providers.
Through a combination of newly developed products and partnerships, service offerings and training programs, we believe we can help our customers improve efficiency and deliver better clinical outcomes while lowering the cost of healthcare delivery.


item2.txt
Net sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 were $41.3 million, an increase of 5.7%, compared to net sales of $39.1 million during the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
Selling, general and administrative expenses were $13.4 million, or 32.5% of net sales, for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to $12.6 million, or 32.2% of net sales, for the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
Net income during the second quarter of fiscal 2018 included income of $1.5 million from discontinued operations.
Net sales for the first six months of fiscal 2019 were $85.5 million, an increase of 12.3%, compared to net sales of $76.1 million during the first six months of fiscal 2018.
Net income during the second quarter of fiscal 2018 included income of $1.5 million from discontinued operations.
During the second quarter of fiscal 2019, consolidated net sales increased 5.7% compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
During the first six months of fiscal 2019, consolidated net sales increased 12.3% compared to the first six months of fiscal 2018.
Consolidated gross margin as a percentage of net sales decreased to 31.4% during the second quarter of fiscal 2019 from 34.2% during the second quarter of fiscal 2018, primarily due to unfavorable product mix and manufacturing variances for PMT, unfavorable product mix and manufacturing variances for Healthcare, partially offset by favorable product mix and lower costs on selected products for Canvys.
Consolidated gross margin as a percentage of net sales decreased to 31.5% during the first six months of fiscal 2019 from 33.5% during the first six months of fiscal 2018, primarily due to unfavorable product mix and manufacturing variances for PMT, unfavorable product mix and manufacturing variances for Healthcare, partially offset by favorable product mix and lower costs on selected products for Canvys.
PMT net sales increased 7.5% to $32.3 million during the second quarter of fiscal 2019 from $30.1 million during the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
Gross margin as a percentage of net sales decreased to 31.3% during the second quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to 34.1% during the second quarter of fiscal 2018, due to unfavorable product mix and manufacturing variances.
PMT net sales increased 13.4% to $67.1 million during the first six months of fiscal 2019 from $59.2 million during the first six months of fiscal 2018.
Gross margin as a percentage of net sales decreased to 31.5% during the first six months of fiscal 2019 as compared to 33.5% during the first six months of fiscal 2018, due to unfavorable product mix and manufacturing variances.
Canvys net sales decreased 3.1% to $6.5 million during the second quarter of fiscal 2019 from $6.7 million during the second quarter of fiscal 2018 due to several large non-recurring orders that shipped in the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
Gross margin as a percentage of net sales increased to 32.8% during the second quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to 31.7% during the second quarter of fiscal 2018, due to favorable product mix and lower costs on selected products sold.
Canvys net sales increased 9.6% to $13.7 million during the first six months of fiscal 2019 from $12.5 million during the first six months of fiscal 2018 due to increased customer demand in our North American and European markets.
Gross margin as a percentage of net sales increased to 32.5% during the first six months of fiscal 2019 as compared to 29.5% during the first six months of fiscal 2018, due to favorable product mix and lower costs on selected products sold.
Healthcare net sales increased 7.6% to $2.5 million during the second quarter of fiscal 2019 from $2.3 million during the second quarter of fiscal 2018 due to higher CT tube sales and increasing equipment sales, partially offset by lower parts sales.
Gross margin as a percentage of net sales decreased to 29.4% during the second quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to 42.6% during the second quarter of fiscal 2018 due to an unfavorable product mix and manufacturing variances.
Healthcare net sales increased 6.5% to $4.7 million during the first six months of fiscal 2019 from $4.4 million during the first six months of fiscal 2018 due to higher CT tube sales and increasing equipment sales, partially offset by lower parts sales.
Gross margin as a percentage of net sales decreased to 29.0% during the first six months of fiscal 2019 as compared to 45.5% during the first six months of fiscal 2018 due to an unfavorable product mix and manufacturing variances.
Operating expenses as a percent of net sales increased to 32.5% in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 from 32.2% in the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
Changes in our operating assets and liabilities resulted in a use of cash of $5.3 million during the first six months of fiscal 2019, net of foreign currency exchange gains and losses, included a decrease of $3.9 million in accounts payable, an increase in inventory of $1.8 million and an increase of $0.3 million in prepaid expenses and other assets, partially offset by an increase in accrued liabilities of $0.6 million.
Changes in our operating assets and liabilities during the first six months of fiscal 2018, net of foreign currency exchange gains and losses, included an increase in inventories of $4.6 million, a decrease of $1.0 million in accounts payable and an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of $0.6 million.


item4.txt
Management of the Company, with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”)) as of December 1, 2018.


part2.txt
Busch filed a Verified Stockholder Derivative Complaint against Edward J.
Richardson, Paul Plante, Jacques Belin, James Benham, Kenneth Halverson and the Company in the Delaware Court of Chancery, captioned Steven H.
The lawsuit alleges claims for breach of fiduciary duty by the Company’s directors and challenges the decision of a special committee of the Company’s Board to refuse Mr. Busch’s demand that the Company’s Board, among other things, rescind the Company’s May 2013 repurchase of stock from Mr. Richardson and May 2013 and October 2014 repurchases of Company stock from the Richardson Wildlife Foundation.
On September 21, 2018, the court heard oral arguments on the Company’s March 9, 2018 motion to dismiss the lawsuit.
On November 14, 2018, the Court of Chancery issued a ruling granting defendant’s motion to dismiss and dismissed the case with prejudice.
The plaintiff’s time to appeal the Court of Chancery dismissal expired December 14, 2018.


