fls.txt
These statements relate to future events or the Company’s future financial performance.


item1.txt
See Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of RF Industries, Ltd. and its divisions and three wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively, hereinafter the “Company”) have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments, which are normal and recurring, have been included in order to make the information not misleading.
For all periods on or before January 31, 2019, references herein to the “Company” shall refer to RF Industries, Ltd., Cables Unlimited, and Rel-Tech, and for all periods after January 31, 2019, references to the “Company” shall refer to RF Industries, Ltd., Cables Unlimited, Rel-Tech, and C Enterprises, collectively.
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Certain amounts in the prior period condensed consolidated financial statements and notes have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation of continuing operations and discontinued operations (see Note 3).
These reclassifications had no effect on reported consolidated net income.
Level 3 - Valuations derived from valuation techniques in which one or more significant inputs or significant value drivers are unobservable.
As of July 31, 2019 and October 31, 2018, the carrying amounts reflected in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets for cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and accrued liabilities approximated their carrying value due to their short-term nature.


item2.txt
On March 15, 2019, through C Enterprises, Inc. (“C Enterprises”), its newly formed subsidiary, the Company purchased the business and assets of C Enterprises L.P., a California based designer and manufacturer of quality connectivity solutions to telecommunications and data communications distributors.
The acquisition was determined not to be material and was accounted for in accordance with the acquisition method of accounting, and the acquired assets and assumed liabilities were recorded by the Company at their estimated fair values in accordance with ASC 805, Business Combinations.
Certain items in inventory may be considered obsolete or excess and, as such, we periodically review our inventories for excess and slow moving items and make provisions as necessary to properly reflect inventory value.
The Company assesses property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, which are considered definite-lived assets, for impairment.
Definite-lived assets are reviewed when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.
The Company amortizes its intangible assets with definite useful lives over their estimated useful lives and reviews these assets for impairment.
Revenues from the RF Connector segment were generated from the sales of RF connector products and connector cable assemblies and accounted for 25% of the Company’s total sales for the nine months ended July 31, 2019.
● As of July 31, 2019, the Company had $32.1 million in current assets and $5.4 million in current liabilities.
However, the Company has continued to receive additional bookings while maintaining its level of shipments.
As a result, the Company had $8 million of backlog as of the current quarter ended July 31, 2019.
The Company used cash of $3.0 million in operating activities during the nine months ended July 31, 2019 due largely to an increase in sales, which resulted in increased inventory purchases and an increase in outstanding accounts receivables as of quarter-end.
These net cash outlays were partially offset by $0.4 million that the Company received from the exercise of stock options.


item4.txt
In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide reasonable assurance only of achieving the desired control objectives, and management necessarily is required to apply its judgment in weighting the costs and benefits of possible new or different controls and procedures.


part2.txt
There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in the above-mentioned periodic report.
Nothing to report.


