fls.txt
These statements relate to future events or the Company’s future financial performance.


item1.txt
See Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of RF Industries, Ltd. and its divisions and two wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively, hereinafter the “Company”) have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments, which are normal and recurring, have been included in order to make the information not misleading.
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Certain amounts in the prior period condensed consolidated financial statements and notes have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation of continuing operations and discontinued operations (see Note 2).
These reclassifications had no effect on reported consolidated net income.
This ASU requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets related to the rights and obligations created by those leases.
The ASU also requires additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures related to the nature, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
Instead, if “the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss shall be recognized in an amount equal to that excess, limited to the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.” The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019.
The Company has arrangements with these vendors to purchase products based on purchase orders periodically issued by the Company.


item2.txt
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes and other financial information appearing elsewhere in this Form 10-Q.
Certain items in inventory may be considered obsolete or excess and, as such, we periodically review our inventories for excess and slow moving items and make provisions as necessary to properly reflect inventory value.
The Company assesses property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, which are considered definite-lived assets, for impairment.
Definite-lived assets are reviewed when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.
The Company amortizes its intangible assets with definite useful lives over their estimated useful lives and reviews these assets for impairment.
Revenues from the RF Connector segment were generated from the sales of RF connector products and connector cable assemblies and accounted for 31% of the Company’s total sales for the three months ended January 31, 2019.
·As of January 31, 2019, the Company had no outstanding indebtedness for borrowed funds.
During the year ended October 31, 2018 (“fiscal year 2018”), the Company received an influx of sales orders from customers that resulted in a sharp increase in sales and backlog from the prior fiscal year ended October 31, 2017.
However, the Company has maintained a consistent volume of bookings and shipments during the first quarter ended January 31, 2019, resulting in a substantially unchanged backlog of $11 million.
Furthermore, purchase orders may be subject to cancellation from customers, although the Company has not historically experienced material cancellations of purchase orders.
The Company used cash of $2.3 million during the three months ended January 31, 2019 due largely to an increase in sales, which resulted in increased inventory purchases and an increase in outstanding accounts receivables as of quarter-end.


item3.txt



item4.txt
In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide reasonable assurance only of achieving the desired control objectives, and management necessarily is required to apply its judgment in weighting the costs and benefits of possible new or different controls and procedures.
Changes may include such activities as implementing new, more efficient systems, consolidating activities, and migrating processes.


part2.txt
There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in the above-mentioned periodic report.
Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds Nothing to report.


