fls.txt
Some of the risks that are foreseen by management are outlined within Part II Item 1A.


item1.txt
From time-to-time, we are involved in litigation relating to claims arising out of our operations in the normal course of business.


item2.txt
Risk Factors of this report and in Part I Item 1A.
Risk Factors of our 2017 10-K. We are one of the world’s largest and most established business support solutions (“BSS”) providers, primarily serving some of the most well-known communications, information, and content companies around the globe.
We help our clients simplify the complexity of a rapidly changing business landscape, bringing more than thirty-five years of experience supporting the world’s most respected service providers.
We make their hardest decisions simpler and smarter as they work to evolve their businesses from a single-product offering to highly complex and competitive multi-product offerings, while also requiring increasingly differentiated, real-time, and personalized experiences for their customers.
We offer BSS and revenue management, customer experience and digital monetization solutions for every stage of the customer lifecycle so service providers can deliver an outstanding customer experience that adapts to their customers’ rapidly changing demands.
We generate approximately 70% of our revenues from the North American cable and satellite markets, approximately 20% of our revenues from global wireline and wireless communication providers, and the remainder from a variety of other verticals, such as financial services, logistics, and transportation.
Key Impact of U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act As discussed in Note 2 to our Financial Statements, in January 2018 we adopted ASU 606, a single comprehensive model which supersedes nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP, utilizing the cumulative effect approach.
Under the new guidance, revenue is recognized when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
In conjunction with the adoption of this ASU, we recorded a cumulative adjustment increasing beginning retained earnings (net of tax) by approximately $7 million, primarily related to contracts that we were required to defer revenue as we did not have VSOE for certain undelivered elements.
Certain deferred contract costs that had been included in our client contracts and other current and non-current assets on our Balance Sheet were reclassified and presented separately as a non-current client contract asset, net of related amortization.
Investments in client contracts on our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows have been reclassified to operating activities from investing activities.
As discussed in Note 5 to the Financial Statements, on February 28, 2017 we acquired Business Ink, a multi-channel communications company based in Austin, Texas, for approximately $70 million, excluding acquisition-related expenses.
This represents a purchase price of slightly over one times historical revenues.
Operating income for the second quarter of 2018 was $24.1 million, or an 11.3% operating income margin percentage, compared to $24.2 million, or a 12.6% operating income margin percentage for the second quarter of 2017, with the decrease in operating margin reflective of costs associated with the integration of Business Ink and the continued increase in planned investments aimed at generating future long-term growth in our business.
Our cash flows from operating activities for the quarter ended June 30, 2018 were $(3.6) million, which were negatively impacted by an increase in accounts receivable primarily related to the timing around a recurring client payment that was delayed at quarter-end.
See the Liquidity section below for further discussion of our cash flows.
A large percentage of our historical revenues have been generated from our largest clients, which are Comcast, Charter Corporation Inc. (“Charter”), and DISH Network Corporation (“DISH”).
The preparation of our Financial Statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. requires us to select appropriate accounting policies, and to make judgments and estimates affecting the application of those accounting policies.
The components of total expenses are discussed in more detail below.
Variability in quarterly revenues and operating results are inherent characteristics of companies that sell software licenses and perform professional services.
The lower effective income tax rate for the six months ended June 30, 2017 reflects an approximately $5 million net benefit resulting from Comcast’s exercise of 1.4 million vested stock warrants in January 2017, as the stock warrants appreciated in value since their vesting, resulting in an income tax benefit to us when exercised.


item3.txt
The interest rate on our 2016 Convertible Notes is fixed, and thus, as it relates to our convertible debt borrowings, we are not exposed to changes in interest rates.
Certain of our cash balances are “swept” into overnight money market accounts on a daily basis, and at times, any excess funds are invested in low-risk, somewhat longer term, cash equivalent instruments and short-term investments.
Our cash equivalents are invested primarily in institutional money market funds, commercial paper, and time deposits held at major banks.


item4.txt
As required by Rule 13a-15(b), our management, including the Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), conducted an evaluation as of the end of the period covered by this report of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rule 13a-15(e).


part2.txt
We are not presently a party to any material pending or threatened legal proceedings.
Risk Factors in our 2017 Form 10-K.


