fls.txt
Some of the risks that are foreseen by management are outlined within Part II Item 1A.


item1.txt
We are not presently a party to any material pending or threatened legal proceedings.


item2.txt
We are one of the world’s leading revenue management and digital monetization, customer experience, and payment solutions providers, and a trusted partner to some of the most well-known communications, media, and entertainment companies around the globe.
We leverage more than 35 years of experience to help our clients simplify the complexity of a rapidly changing business landscape.
Drawing from real-world knowledge and unparalleled expertise, we design and implement business solutions that make their hardest decisions simpler and smarter so they can focus on evolving their businesses to provide highly sophisticated and competitive multi-product offerings while also delivering increasingly differentiated, real-time, and personalized experiences that meet the ever-changing demands of their customers across all stages of the customer lifecycle.
Our solutions are built on proven public and private cloud platforms, with out-of-the-box and managed service models that adapt to fit their unique business needs and enable the transformative change required to create personalized experiences that drive loyalty and retention.
We generate approximately 55% of our revenues from the North American cable and satellite markets, approximately 20% of our revenues from global wireline and wireless communication providers, and the remainder from a variety of other verticals, such as financial services, healthcare, logistics, and transportation.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) (“ASC 842”), which requires lessees to recognize a lease liability and a right-of-use asset for all leases, including operating leases, with a term greater than twelve months on its balance sheet.
Stock-based compensation included in the table above excludes amounts that have been recorded in restructuring and reorganization charges.
Revenues for the first quarter of 2019 were $244.8 million, a 21% increase when compared to revenues of $201.7 million for the first quarter of 2018, with the increase mainly attributed to the additional revenues generated from the acquisitions of Forte on October 1, 2018 and Business Ink on February 28, 2018, and the continued growth in our cloud solutions and managed service arrangements.
Operating income for the first quarter of 2019 was $32.1 million, or a 13.1% operating margin percentage, compared to $25.8 million, or a 12.8% operating margin percentage for the first quarter of 2018.
The increase in operating income is primarily a result of the higher revenues generated in the first quarter of 2019, as reflected by our relatively consistent operating margin percentage.
Our cash flows from operating activities for the first quarter of 2019 were $12.8 million.
See the Liquidity section below for further discussion of our cash flows.
A large percentage of our historical revenues have been generated from our two largest clients, which are Comcast and Charter Corporation Inc. (“Charter”).
See our 2018 10-K for additional discussion of our business relationships and contractual terms with Comcast and Charter.
Comcast continues to be our largest client, generating 22% of our total revenues for the first quarter of 2019.
In November 2018, Comcast exercised the first of their two one-year renewal options extending the term of their agreement through June 30, 2020.
The preparation of our Financial Statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires us to select appropriate accounting policies, and to make judgments and estimates affecting the application of those accounting policies.
Cloud and related solutions revenues for the first quarter of 2019 were $219.6 million, a 24% increase when compared to $177.5 million for the first quarter of 2018.
Software and services revenues for the first quarter of 2019 were $13.0 million, a 9% increase when compared to $12.0 million for the first quarter of 2018, with the increase mainly attributed to the timing of work performed and execution of software license agreements.
The components of total expenses are discussed in more detail below.


item3.txt
The interest rate on our 2016 Convertible Notes is fixed, and thus, as it relates to our convertible debt borrowings, we are not exposed to changes in interest rates.
Certain of our cash balances are “swept” into overnight money market accounts on a daily basis, and at times, any excess funds are invested in low-risk, somewhat longer term, cash equivalent instruments and short-term investments.
Our cash equivalents are invested primarily in institutional money market funds, commercial paper, and time deposits held at major banks.
We have minimal market risk for our cash and cash equivalents due to the relatively short maturities of the instruments.


item4.txt
As required by Rule 13a-15(b), our management, including the Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), conducted an evaluation as of the end of the period covered by this report of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rule 13a-15(e).


part2.txt
We are not presently a party to any material pending or threatened legal proceedings.
There were no material changes to the risk factors disclosed in our 2018 Form 10-K during the first quarter of 2019.


