fls.txt
Some of the risks that are foreseen by management are outlined within Part II Item 1A.


item1.txt
We are not presently a party to any material pending or threatened legal proceedings.


item2.txt
We leverage more than 35 years of experience to help our clients simplify the complexity of a rapidly changing business landscape.
Drawing from real-world knowledge and unparalleled expertise, we design and implement business solutions that make their hardest decisions simpler and smarter so they can focus on evolving their businesses to provide highly sophisticated and competitive multi-product offerings while also delivering increasingly differentiated, real-time, and personalized experiences that meet the ever-changing demands of their customers across all stages of the customer lifecycle.
We offer revenue management, customer experience, and digital monetization solutions for every stage of the customer lifecycle so service providers can deliver an outstanding customer experience that adapts to their customers’ rapidly changing demands.
We generate approximately 60% of our revenues from the North American cable and satellite markets, approximately 20% of our revenues from global wireline and wireless communication providers, and the remainder from a variety of other verticals, such as financial services, healthcare, logistics, and transportation.
Additionally, during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 we generated 87% of our revenues from the Americas region, 9% of our revenues from the Europe, Middle East and Africa region, and 4% of our revenues from the Asia Pacific region.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) (“ASC 842”), which requires lessees to recognize a lease liability and a right-of-use asset for all leases, including operating leases, with a term greater than twelve months on its balance sheet.
Transaction fees are primarily comprised of interchange and other payment-related fees that we pay, in conjunction with the delivery of service to clients under our payment services contracts, to third-party payment processors and financial institutions.
Because we control the integrated service provided under our payment services client contracts, these transaction fees are presented gross, and not netted against revenues.
Operating income for the third quarter of 2019 was $33.4 million, or a 13.3% operating margin percentage, compared to $25.7 million, or a 12.0% operating margin percentage for the third quarter of 2018.
The increase in operating income is primarily a result of higher revenues generated in the third quarter of 2019.
Our cash flows from operating activities for the quarter ended September 30, 2019 were $79.1 million.
See the Liquidity section below for further discussion of our cash flows.
A large percentage of our historical revenues have been generated from our two largest clients, which are Comcast and Charter Corporation Inc. (“Charter”).
In November 2018, Comcast exercised the first of their two one-year renewal options extending the term of their agreement through June 30, 2020.
The preparation of our Financial Statements in conformity with GAAP requires us to select appropriate accounting policies, and to make judgments and estimates affecting the application of those accounting policies.
We continue to transition our focus towards more predictable recurring revenues models with our managed services arrangements and delivery of our cloud-based solutions and away from large transactional software and services deals with related maintenance agreements.
The components of total expenses are discussed in more detail below.
Variability in quarterly revenues and operating results are inherent characteristics of companies that sell software licenses and perform professional services.
As part of our 2018 Credit Agreement, we have a $200 million senior secured revolving loan facility with a syndicate of financial institutions that expires in March 2023.
We generally have ready access to substantially all of our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investment balances, but may face limitations on moving cash out of certain foreign jurisdictions due to currency controls.


item3.txt
The interest rate on our 2016 Convertible Notes is fixed, and thus, as it relates to our convertible debt borrowings, we are not exposed to changes in interest rates.
Certain of our cash balances are “swept” into overnight money market accounts on a daily basis, and at times, any excess funds are invested in low-risk, somewhat longer term, cash equivalent instruments and short-term investments.
Our cash equivalents are invested primarily in institutional money market funds, commercial paper, and time deposits held at major banks.
We have minimal market risk for our cash and cash equivalents due to the relatively short maturities of the instruments.


item4.txt
The Exhibits filed or incorporated by reference herewith are as specified in the Exhibit Index.


part2.txt
We are not presently a party to any material pending or threatened legal proceedings.
There were no material changes to the risk factors disclosed in our 2018 Form 10-K during the third quarter of 2019.
The following table presents information with respect to purchases of our common stock made during the third quarter of 2019 by CSG Systems International, Inc. or any “affiliated purchaser” of CSG Systems International, Inc., as defined in Rule 10b-18(a)(3) under the Exchange Act.


