We use analytics to help businesses automate, improve and connect decisions across their enterprise — an approach we commonly refer to as decision management. Our predictive analytics, which includes the industry-standard FICO® Score, and our decision management systems leverage the use of big data and mathematical algorithms to predict, categorize, and describe consumer behavior in order to power hundreds of billions of customer decisions each year. We help thousands of companies in over 100 countries use our decision management technology to target and acquire customers more efficiently, increase customer value, detect and reduce fraud and credit losses, lower operating expenses, and enter new markets more profitably. Most leading banks and credit card issuers rely on our solutions, as do insurers, retailers, telecommunications providers, pharmaceutical companies, healthcare organizations, public agencies and organizations in other industries. We also serve consumers through online services that enable people to purchase and understand their FICO® Scores, the standard measure of consumer credit risk in the U.S., and empower them to manage their financial health. Most of our solutions address customer engagement, including customer acquisition, customer onboarding, customer servicing and management, and customer protection. We also help businesses improve non-customer decisions such as streamlining transaction and claims processing, optimizing logistics, and identifying and quantifying security risk. Our solutions enable users to make decisions that are more precise, consistent and agile, and that systematically advance business goals. This helps our clients to reduce the cost of doing business, increase revenues and profitability, reduce losses from risks and fraud, and increase customer loyalty.
We derive a significant portion of our revenues from clients outside the U.S. International revenues accounted for 37% and 34% of total consolidated revenues for the quarters ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. A significant portion of our revenues are derived from the sale of products and services within the banking (including consumer credit) industry, and 87% and 84% of our revenues were derived from within this industry during the quarters ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. In addition, we derive a significant share of revenues from transactional or unit-based software license fees, transactional fees derived under credit scoring, data processing, data management and SaaS subscription services arrangements, and annual software maintenance fees. Arrangements with transactional or unit-based pricing accounted for 74% and 73% of our revenues during the quarters ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
We continue to drive growth in our Scores segment. Scores revenue increased 25% to $85.7 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2018 from $68.4 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2017. Scores operating income increased 37% to $72.2 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2018 from $52.5 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2017. For our Applications and Decision Management Software segments, our cloud business continues to grow both in the absolute dollar value and as a percentage of revenues as we pursue our cloud-first strategy. During the quarter ended December 31, 2018, cloud revenues accounted for $63.4 million, or 36% of non-Scores revenues, compared to $56.2 million, or 34% during the quarter ended December 31, 2017. 
Operating income increased 33% to $49.0 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2018 from $36.8 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2017 and as a result, net earnings increased 22% to $40.0 million from $32.9 million, primarily due to the increase in operating income, partially offset by higher interest expense incurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2018.
We continue to enhance stockholder value by returning cash to stockholders through our stock repurchase program. During the quarter ended December 31, 2018, we repurchased approximately 0.4 million shares at a total repurchase price of $82.7 million. As of December 31, 2018, we had $116.6 million remaining under our current stock repurchase program.
Transactional and Maintenance Bookings
•Individual performance of our customers relative to their competitors; and
We calculate maintenance bookings directly from the terms stated in the contract.
We calculate professional services bookings as the estimated number of hours to complete a project multiplied by the rate per hour. We estimate the number of hours based on our understanding of the project scope, conversations with customer personnel and our experience in estimating professional services projects. Estimated bookings may differ from actual results primarily due to differences in the actual number of hours incurred. These differences typically result from customer decisions to alter the mix of FICO and customer services resources used to complete a project.
License Bookings
Licenses are sold on a perpetual or term basis and bookings generally equal the fixed amount stated in the contract.
Bookings Trend Analysis
Transactional and maintenance bookings were 55% and 32% of total bookings for the quarters ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Professional services bookings were 33% and 55% of total bookings for the quarters ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. License bookings were 12% and 13% of total bookings for the quarters ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Revenues
Applications
Scores
Scores segment revenues increased $17.3 million due to an increase of $15.0 million in our business-to-business scores revenue and $2.3 million in our business-to-consumer services revenue. The increase in business-to-business scores was primarily attributable to an increase in transactional scores in originations, primarily driven by a higher unit price in mortgage activities. The increase in business-to-consumer services was primarily attributable to an increase in royalties derived from scores sold indirectly to consumers through credit reporting agencies. 
Decision Management Software segment revenues increased $5.2 million primarily attributable to an increase in license and services revenues related to our FICO® Decision Management Platform product.
Cost of Revenues
The quarter over quarter increase in cost of revenue expenses of $1.6 million was primarily attributable to increase in personnel and labor costs. Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues decreased to 29% during the quarter ended December 31, 2018 from 32% during the quarter ended December 31, 2017 primarily due to sales of our higher-margin Scores and software products.
Research and Development
Research and development expenses include personnel and related overhead costs incurred in the development of new products and services, including research of mathematical and statistical models and development of new versions of Applications and Decision Management Software products.
Research and development expenses as a percentage of revenues increased to 13% during the quarter ended December 31, 2018 from 12% during the quarter ended December 31, 2017. The $6.4 million increase was primarily attributable to an increase in labor and personnel costs as a result of our continued investment in cloud computing and SaaS. 
Over the next several quarters, we expect research and development expenditures as a percentage of revenues will be consistent with that incurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2018.
Selling, General and Administrative
The quarter over quarter increase in selling, general and administrative expenses of $10.0 million was primarily attributable to an increase in personnel and labor costs as a result of increased headcount and higher share-based compensation cost. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues was 38% during the quarter ended December 31, 2018, materially consistent with that incurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2017.
Over the next several quarters, we expect selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues will be consistent with that incurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2018.
Amortization of intangible assets consists of amortization expense related to intangible assets recorded in connection with acquisitions accounted for by the acquisition method of accounting. Our finite-lived intangible assets, consisting primarily of completed technology and customer contracts and relationships, are being amortized using the straight-line method over periods ranging from four to fifteen years.
Over the next several quarters, we expect that amortization expense will be consistent with the amortization expense we recorded during the quarter ended December 31, 2018.
Interest Expense, Net
Interest expense includes primarily interest on the senior notes issued in May 2008, July 2010 and May 2018, as well as interest and credit facility fees on the revolving line of credit. Our consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income include interest expense netted with interest income, which is derived primarily from the investment of funds in excess of our immediate operating requirements. 
The quarter over quarter increase in interest expense of $3.2 million was primarily attributable to a higher average outstanding debt balance during the quarter ended December 31, 2018, as well as a higher average interest rate on our 2018 Senior Notes compared to that on our revolving line of credit.
Over the next several quarters, we expect net interest expense will be higher than the net interest expense incurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2018.
Other Income (Expense), Net
The quarter over quarter increase in other income (expense), net of $2.7 million was primarily attributable to unrealized losses on a supplemental retirement and saving plan. 
Operating Income
Applications
Scores 
The quarter over quarter $12.2 million increase in operating income was attributable to a $29.9 million increase in segment revenues and a $0.3 million decrease in amortization cost, partially offset by a $10.2 million increase in segment operating expenses, a $5.3 million increase in share-based compensation cost and a $2.5 million increase in corporate expenses.
At the segment level, the quarter over quarter $17.2 million increase in segment operating income was the result of a $19.6 million increase in our Scores segment operating income and a $2.6 million increase in our Applications segment operating income, partially offset by a $2.5 million increase in our Decision Management Software segment operating loss and a $2.5 million increase in corporate expense.
The quarter over quarter $2.6 million increase in Applications segment operating income was due to a $7.5 million increase in segment revenue, partially offset by a $4.9 million increase in segment operating expenses. Segment operating income as a percentage of segment revenue for Applications during the quarter ended December 31, 2018 was 27%, consistent with the quarter ended December 31, 2017.
The quarter over quarter $19.6 million increase in Scores segment operating income was due to a $17.2 million increase in segment revenue and a $2.4 million decrease in segment operating expenses. Segment operating income as a percentage of segment revenue for Scores increased to 84% from 77% mainly due to an increase in sales of our higher-margin score products.
The quarter over quarter $2.5 million increase in Decision Management Software segment operating loss was due to a $7.7 million increase in segment operating expenses, partially offset by a $5.2 million increase in segment revenue. Segment operating margin for Decision Management Software decreased to a negative 37% from a negative 34% primarily due to our continued investment in cloud infrastructure operations and new products.
Outlook
Summary of Cash Flows 
Our primary method for funding operations and growth has been through cash flows generated from operating activities. Net cash provided by operating activities increased to $48.9 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2018 from $28.8 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2017. The $20.1 million increase was mainly attributable to a $7.1 million increase in net income, a $5.3 million increase in non-cash share-based compensation expense and a $3.1 million increase in unrealized losses on marketable securities.
Cash Flows from Investing Activities
Net cash used in investing activities increased to $8.7 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2018 from $6.0 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2017. The $2.7 million increase was attributable to a $2.4 million increase in purchases of property and equipment as well as a $0.3 million increase in purchases, net of proceeds from sale, of marketable securities.
Net cash used in financing activities increased to $50.1 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2018 from $34.7 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2017. The $15.4 million increase was primarily attributable to a $27.4 million increase in repurchases of common stock and a $4.1 million increase in taxes paid related to net share settlement of equity awards, partially offset by a $9.0 million increase in proceeds, net of payments, from our revolving line of credit and a $6.9 million increase in proceeds from issuance of treasury stock under employee stock plans.
In July 2018, our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program following the completion of our previous program. This program was open-ended and authorized repurchases of shares of our common stock up to an aggregate cost of $250.0 million in the open market or in negotiated transactions.
Pursuant to the July 2018 program, we repurchased 425,000 shares of our common stock at a total repurchase price of $82.7 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2018.
On July 14, 2010, we issued $245 million of senior notes in a private placement to a group of institutional investors (the “2010 Senior Notes”). The 2010 Senior Notes were issued in four series with maturities ranging from 6 to 10 years. The outstanding 2010 Senior Notes’ weighted average interest rate is 5.6% and the weighted average maturity is 9.8 years. The 2010 Senior Notes require interest payments semi-annually and contain certain restrictive covenants, including the maintenance of a maximum consolidated net debt to consolidated EBITDA ratio of 3.00 and a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of 2.50. On May 8, 2018, we issued $400 million of senior notes in a private offering to qualified institutional investors (the “2018 Senior Notes”, and with the 2010 Senior Notes, the “Senior Notes”). The 2018 Senior Notes require interest payments semi-annually at a rate of 5.25% per annum and will mature on May 15, 2026. The purchase agreements for the 2010 Senior Notes and the indenture for the 2018 Senior Notes contain certain covenants typical of unsecured obligations. As of December 31, 2018, the carrying value of the Senior Notes was $513.0 million and we were in compliance with all financial covenants under these obligations.
Revenue Recognition
Revenue is recognized when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services.
See Note 8 to the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements for further discussion on revenues.
Business Combinations
Accounting for our acquisitions requires us to recognize, separately from goodwill, the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed at their acquisition-date fair values. Goodwill as of the acquisition date is measured as the excess of consideration transferred and the net of the acquisition-date fair values of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. While we use our best estimates and assumptions to accurately value assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date, our estimates are inherently uncertain and subject to refinement. As a result, during the measurement period, which may be up to one year from the acquisition date, we record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed with the corresponding offset to goodwill. Upon the conclusion of the measurement period or final determination of the values of assets acquired or liabilities assumed, whichever comes first, any subsequent adjustments are recorded to our consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income.
Goodwill, Acquisition Intangibles and Other Long-Lived Assets - Impairment Assessment
For fiscal 2018, we performed a step zero qualitative analysis for our annual assessment of goodwill impairment. After evaluating and weighing all relevant events and circumstances, we concluded that it is not more likely than not that the fair value of any of our reporting units was less than their carrying amounts. Consequently, we did not perform a step one quantitative analysis and determined goodwill was not impaired for any of our reporting units for fiscal 2018.
Share-Based Compensation
A description of our accounting policies associated with tax-related contingencies and valuation allowances assumed as part of a business combination is provided under “Business Combinations” above.
Contingencies and Litigation
New Accounting Pronouncements
Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements
Upon adoption of ASU 2014-09, we applied the standard’s practical expedients that permit the omission of prior-period information about our performance obligations.
See Note 1 to the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements for further discussion on the impact of the standard adoption on our previously reported results.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted
Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
