We use analytics to help businesses automate, improve and connect decisions across their enterprise — an approach we commonly refer to as decision management. Our predictive analytics, which includes the industry-standard FICO® Score, and our decision management systems leverage the use of big data and mathematical algorithms to predict, categorize, and describe consumer behavior in order to power hundreds of billions of customer decisions each year. We help thousands of companies in over 100 countries use our decision management technology to target and acquire customers more efficiently, increase customer value, detect and reduce fraud and credit losses, lower operating expenses, and enter new markets more profitably. Most leading banks and credit card issuers rely on our solutions, as do insurers, retailers, telecommunications providers, pharmaceutical companies, healthcare organizations, public agencies and organizations in other industries. We also serve consumers through online services that enable people to purchase and understand their FICO® Scores, the standard measure of consumer credit risk in the U.S., and empower them to manage their financial health. Most of our solutions address customer engagement, including customer acquisition, customer onboarding, customer servicing and management, and customer protection. We also help businesses improve non-customer decisions such as streamlining transaction and claims processing, optimizing logistics, and identifying and quantifying security risk. Our solutions enable users to make decisions that are more precise, consistent and agile, and that systematically advance business goals. This helps our clients to reduce the cost of doing business, increase revenues and profitability, reduce losses from risks and fraud, and increase customer loyalty.
We derive a significant portion of our revenues from clients outside the U.S. International revenues accounted for 35% and 33% of total consolidated revenues for the quarters ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and 34% of total consolidated revenues for each of the nine months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018. A significant portion of our revenues are derived from the sale of products and services within the banking (including consumer credit) industry, and 88% and 86% of our revenues were derived from within this industry during the quarters ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and 87% and 85% of our revenues were derived from within this industry during the nine months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. In addition, we derive a significant share of revenues from transactional or unit-based software license fees, transactional fees derived under credit scoring, data processing, data management and SaaS subscription services arrangements, and annual software maintenance fees. Arrangements with transactional or unit-based pricing accounted for 72% and 75% of our revenues during the quarters ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Arrangements with transactional or unit-based pricing accounted for 74% and 75% of our revenues during the nine months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 
We continue to drive growth in our Scores segment. Scores revenue increased 27% to $115.1 million during the quarter ended June 30, 2019 from $90.8 million during the quarter ended June 30, 2018, and 24% to $305.2 million during the nine months ended June 30, 2019 from $246.4 million during the nine months ended June 30, 2018. Scores operating income increased 33% to $99.3 million during the quarter ended June 30, 2019 from $74.5 million during the quarter ended June 30, 2018, and 31% to $259.7 million during the nine months ended June 30, 2019 from $197.7 million during the nine months ended June 30, 2018. For our Applications and Decision Management Software segments, cloud business continues to grow as we pursue our cloud-first strategy. Cloud revenues increased 19% to $69.3 million during the quarter ended June 30, 2019 from $58.1 million during the quarter ended June 30, 2018, and 12% to $199.5 million during the nine months ended June 30, 2019 from $177.4 million during the nine months ended June 30, 2018.
Operating income increased 92% to $85.7 million during the quarter ended June 30, 2019 from $44.5 million during the quarter ended June 30, 2018 and as a result, net earnings increased 116% to $64.2 million from $29.7 million. Operating income increased 43% to $183.3 million during the nine months ended June 30, 2019 from $127.8 million during the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and as a result, net earnings increased 47% to $137.5 million from $93.8 million.
We continue to enhance stockholder value by returning cash to stockholders through our stock repurchase program. During the quarter and nine months ended June 30, 2019, we repurchased approximately 0.2 million shares at a total repurchase price of $59.2 million and 0.8 million shares at a total repurchase price of $178.9 million, respectively. As of June 30, 2019, we had $20.3 million remaining under our then-current stock repurchase program.
•Regulatory and other factors that affect the business environment in which our customers operate.
We calculate professional services bookings as the estimated number of hours to complete a project multiplied by the rate per hour. We estimate the number of hours based on our understanding of the project scope, conversations with customer personnel and our experience in estimating professional services projects. Estimated bookings may differ from actual results primarily due to differences in the actual number of hours incurred. These differences typically result from customer decisions to alter the mix of FICO and customer services resources used to complete a project.
Licenses are sold on a perpetual or term basis and bookings generally equal the fixed amount stated in the contract.
Applications segment revenues increased $27.0 million primarily due to a $28.5 million increase in our fraud solutions and a $3.3 million increase in our customer communication services, partially offset by a $5.3 million decrease in our customer management solutions. The increase in fraud solutions was primarily attributable to an increase in license and transactional revenues. The increase in customer communication services was primarily attributable to an increase in transactional revenue as a result of our continued growth in the mobile communication market. The decrease in customer management solutions was primarily attributable to a decrease in license revenue. 
Scores segment revenues increased $24.3 million due to an increase of $22.1 million in our business-to-business scores revenue and $2.2 million in our business-to-consumer services revenue. The increase in business-to-business scores was primarily attributable to a higher unit price in auto activities. The increase in business-to-consumer services was primarily attributable to an increase in royalties derived from scores sold indirectly to consumers through credit reporting agencies. 
During the quarters ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, revenues generated from our agreements with Experian accounted for 13% and 12%, respectively, of our total revenues, and revenues generated from our agreements with Equifax and TransUnion together accounted for 16% and 15%, respectively, of our total revenues. Revenues from these customers included amounts recorded in our other segments. 
Decision Management Software segment revenues increased $8.0 million primarily attributable to an increase in both of our license sales and SaaS subscription revenue.
Applications segment revenues increased $29.8 million primarily due to a $38.4 million increase in our fraud solutions and a $5.9 million increase in our customer communication services, partially offset by a $9.1 million decrease in our originations solutions and a $5.2 million decrease in our customer management solutions. The increase in fraud solutions was primarily attributable to an increase in license and transactional revenues. The increase in customer communication services was primarily attributable to an increase in transactional revenue as a result of our continued growth in the mobile communication market. The decrease in our originations solutions was primarily attributable to a decrease in services and transactional revenues. The decrease in customer management solutions was primarily attributable to a decrease in license and services revenues.
Scores segment revenues increased $58.9 million due to an increase of $52.9 million in our business-to-business scores revenue and $6.0 million in our business-to-consumer services revenue. The increase in business-to-business scores was primarily attributable to a higher unit price in mortgage and auto activities. The increase in business-to-consumer services was primarily attributable to an increase in royalties derived from scores sold indirectly to consumers through credit reporting agencies. 
During the nine months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, revenues generated from our agreements with Experian accounted for 13% and 11%, respectively, of our total revenues, and revenues generated from our agreements with Equifax and TransUnion together accounted for 13% and 14%, respectively, of our total revenues. Revenues from these customers included amounts recorded in our other segments. 
Decision Management Software segment revenues increased $22.5 million primarily attributable to an increase in both of our license sales and SaaS subscription revenue, as well as an increase in services revenues related to our Decision Management Platform product.
The quarter over quarter increase in cost of revenue expenses of $8.2 million was primarily attributable to an increase in personnel and labor costs as a result of increased headcount. Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues decreased to 28% during the quarter ended June 30, 2019 from 31% during the quarter ended June 30, 2018 primarily due to increased sales of our high-margin Scores and software products.
The year-to-date period over period increase in cost of revenue expenses of $15.9 million was primarily attributable to an increase in personnel and labor costs as a result of increased headcount. Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues decreased to 29% during the nine months ended June 30, 2019 from 31% during the nine months ended June 30, 2018 primarily due to increased sales of our high-margin Scores and software products. 
Research and development expenses include personnel and related overhead costs incurred in the development of new products and services, including research of mathematical and statistical models and development of new versions of Applications and Decision Management Software products.
The quarter over quarter increase in research and development expenses of $4.5 million was primarily attributable to an increase in labor and personnel costs. Research and development expenses as a percentage of revenues decreased to 12% during the quarter ended June 30, 2019 from 13% during the quarter ended June 30, 2018 primarily due to increased sales of our high-margin Scores and software products. 
The year-to-date period over period increase in research and development expenses of $16.1 million was primarily attributable to an increase in labor and personnel costs. Research and development expenses as a percentage of revenues was 13% during the nine months ended June 30, 2019, consistent with that incurred during the nine months ended June 30, 2018.
Over the next several quarters, we expect research and development expenditures as a percentage of revenues will be slightly higher than that incurred during the quarter ended June 30, 2019.
The quarter over quarter increase in selling, general and administrative expenses of $5.5 million was primarily attributable to an increase in personnel and labor costs as a result of increased headcount. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues decreased to 33% during the quarter ended June 30, 2019 from 38% during the quarter ended June 30, 2018 primarily due to increased sales of our high-margin Scores and software products.
The year-to-date period over period increase in selling, general and administrative expenses of $24.2 million was primarily attributable to an increase in personnel and labor costs as a result of increased headcount, higher share-based compensation and higher non-capitalizable commission cost. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues decreased to 36% during the nine months ended June 30, 2019 from 38% during the nine months ended June 30, 2018 primarily due to increased sales of our high-margin Scores and software products.
Over the next several quarters, we expect that amortization expense will be consistent with the amortization expense we recorded during the quarter ended June 30, 2019.
Interest expense includes primarily interest on the senior notes issued in May 2008, July 2010 and May 2018, as well as interest and credit facility fees on the revolving line of credit. Our consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income include interest expense netted with interest income, which is derived primarily from the investment of funds in excess of our immediate operating requirements. 
The quarter over quarter increase in interest expense of $1.9 million was primarily attributable to a higher average outstanding debt balance during the quarter ended June 30, 2019, as well as a higher average interest rate on our 2018 Senior Notes compared to that on our revolving line of credit.
Over the next several quarters, we expect net interest expense will be consistent with the net interest expense incurred during the quarter ended June 30, 2019.
The quarter over quarter $41.2 million increase in operating income was attributable to a $59.3 million increase in segment revenues and a $0.1 million decrease in amortization cost, partially offset by a $13.5 million increase in segment operating expenses, a $4.0 million increase in corporate expenses and a $0.7 million increase in share-based compensation cost.
At the segment level, the quarter over quarter $41.8 million increase in segment operating income was the result of a $24.8 million increase in our Scores segment operating income, a $20.3 million increase in our Applications segment operating income and a $0.7 million decrease in our Decision Management Software segment operating loss, partially offset by a $4.0 million increase in corporate expense.
The quarter over quarter $20.3 million increase in Applications segment operating income was due to a $27.0 million increase in segment revenue, partially offset by a $6.7 million increase in segment operating expenses. Segment operating income as a percentage of segment revenue for Applications increased to 32% from 23% mainly due to an increase in sales of our higher-margin software products, partially offset by an increase in labor and personnel costs.
The quarter over quarter $24.8 million increase in Scores segment operating income was due to a $24.3 million increase in segment revenue and a $0.5 million decrease in segment operating expenses. Segment operating income as a percentage of segment revenue for Scores increased to 86% from 82% mainly due to an increase in sales of our higher-margin score products.
The year-to-date period over period increase of $55.5 million in operating income was attributable to a $111.1 million increase in segment revenues and a $0.6 million decrease in amortization cost, partially offset by a $36.3 million increase in segment operating expenses, a $12.6 million increase in corporate expenses and a $7.3 million increase in share-based compensation cost.
At the segment level, the year-to-date period over period increase of $62.2 million in segment operating income was the result of a $62.1 million increase in our Scores segment operating income and a $13.9 million increase in our Applications segment operating income, partially offset by a $12.6 million increase in corporate expenses and a $1.2 million increase in our Decision Management Software segment operating loss.
The year-to-date period over period $13.9 million increase in Applications segment operating income was due to a $29.8 million increase in segment revenue, partially offset by a $15.9 million increase in segment operating expenses. Segment operating income as a percentage of segment revenue for Applications increased to 27% from 26% mainly due to an increase in sales of our higher-margin software products, partially offset by an increase in labor and personnel costs.
The year-to-date period over period $62.1 million increase in Scores segment operating income was attributable to a $58.9 million increase in segment revenue and a $3.2 million decrease in segment operating expenses. Segment operating income as a percentage of segment revenue for Scores increased to 85% from 80%, mainly due to an increase in sales of our higher-margin score products.
The year-to-date period over period $1.2 million increase in Decision Management Software segment operating loss was attributable to a $23.6 million increase in segment operating expenses, partially offset by a $22.4 million increase in segment revenue. Segment operating loss as a percentage of segment revenue for Decision Management Software improved to a negative 29% from a negative 37% primarily due to an increase in sales of our higher-margin software products, partially offset by our continued investment in cloud infrastructure operations and new products.
As of June 30, 2019, we had $78.8 million in cash and cash equivalents, which included $61.8 million held off-shore by our foreign subsidiaries. We believe these balances, as well as available borrowings from our $400 million revolving line of credit and anticipated cash flows from operating activities, will be sufficient to fund our working and other capital requirements as well as the $28.0 million principal payment due in July 2019 on our senior notes issued in July 2010. Under our current financing arrangements, we have no other significant debt obligations maturing over the next twelve months. Additionally, though we do not anticipate the need to repatriate any undistributed earnings from our foreign subsidiaries for the foreseeable future, we may take advantage of opportunities where we are able to repatriate these earnings to the U.S. without material incremental tax provision.
Our primary method for funding operations and growth has been through cash flows generated from operating activities. Net cash provided by operating activities increased to $164.9 million during the nine months ended June 30, 2019 from $163.1 million during the nine months ended June 30, 2018. The $1.8 million increase was attributable to a $43.8 million increase in net income and a $13.8 million increase in non-cash items, including a $7.3 million increase in non-cash share-based compensation expense, partially offset by a $55.8 million decrease that resulted from timing of receipts and payments in our ordinary course of business.
Net cash used in investing activities decreased to $20.8 million for the nine months ended June 30, 2019 from $26.7 million for the nine months ended June 30, 2018. The $5.9 million decrease was primarily attributable to a decrease in purchases of property and equipment.
In July 2018, our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program following the completion of our previous program. This program was open-ended and authorized repurchases of shares of our common stock up to an aggregate cost of $250.0 million in the open market or in negotiated transactions.
Pursuant to the July 2018 program, we repurchased 205,182 shares of our common stock at a total repurchase price of $59.2 million and 780,182 shares of our common stock at a total repurchase price of $178.9 million during the quarter and nine months ended June 30, 2019, respectively.
In July 2019, our Board of Directors approved a new stock repurchase program following the completion of the July 2018 program. The new program is open-ended and authorizes repurchases of shares of our common stock up to an aggregate cost of $250.0 million in the open market or in negotiated transactions.
Revenue is recognized when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services.
See Note 8 to the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements for further discussion on revenues.
Accounting for our acquisitions requires us to recognize, separately from goodwill, the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed at their acquisition-date fair values. Goodwill as of the acquisition date is measured as the excess of consideration transferred and the net of the acquisition-date fair values of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. While we use our best estimates and assumptions to accurately value assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date, our estimates are inherently uncertain and subject to refinement. As a result, during the measurement period, which may be up to one year from the acquisition date, we record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed with the corresponding offset to goodwill. Upon the conclusion of the measurement period or final determination of the values of assets acquired or liabilities assumed, whichever comes first, any subsequent adjustments are recorded to our consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income.
For fiscal 2018, we performed a step zero qualitative analysis for our annual assessment of goodwill impairment. After evaluating and weighing all relevant events and circumstances, we concluded that it is not more likely than not that the fair value of any of our reporting units was less than their carrying amounts. Consequently, we did not perform a step one quantitative analysis and determined goodwill was not impaired for any of our reporting units for fiscal 2018.
Our intangible assets that have finite useful lives and other long-lived assets are assessed for potential impairment when there is evidence that events and circumstances related to our financial performance and economic environment indicate the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. When impairment indicators are identified, we test for impairment using undiscounted cash flows. If such tests indicate impairment, then we measure and record the impairment as the difference between the carrying value of the asset and the fair value of the asset. Significant management judgment is required in forecasting future operating results used in the preparation of the projected cash flows. Should different conditions prevail, material write downs of our intangible assets or other long-lived assets could occur. We review the estimated remaining useful lives of our acquired intangible assets at each reporting period. A reduction in our estimate of remaining useful lives, if any, could result in increased annual amortization expense in future periods.
A description of our accounting policies associated with tax-related contingencies and valuation allowances assumed as part of a business combination is provided under “Business Combinations” above.
Upon adoption of ASU 2014-09, we applied the standard’s practical expedients that permit the omission of prior-period information about our performance obligations.
See Note 1 to the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements for further discussion on the impact of the standard adoption on our previously reported results.
We do not expect that any other recently issued accounting pronouncements will have a significant effect on our financial statements.
Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
