We use analytics to help businesses automate, improve and connect decisions across their enterprise, an approach we commonly refer to as decision management. Our predictive analytics, which includes the industry-standard FICO® Score, and our decision management systems leverage the use of big data and mathematical algorithms to predict consumer behavior and power hundreds of billions of customer decisions each year. We help thousands of companies in over 100 countries use our decision management technology to target and acquire customers more efficiently, increase customer value, reduce fraud and credit losses, lower operating expenses, and enter new markets more profitably. Most leading banks and credit card issuers rely on our solutions, as do insurers, retailers, telecommunications providers, pharmaceutical companies, healthcare organizations, public agencies and organizations in other industries. We also serve consumers through online services that enable people to purchase and understand their FICO® Scores, the standard measure in the U.S. of consumer credit risk, empowering them to manage their financial health. Most of our solutions address customer engagement, including customer acquisition, customer onboarding, customer servicing and management, and customer protection. We also help businesses improve noncustomer decisions such as transaction and claims processing. Our solutions enable users to make decisions that are more precise, consistent and agile, and that systematically advance business goals. This helps our clients to reduce the cost of doing business, increase revenues and profitability, reduce losses from risks and fraud, and increase customer loyalty.
We derive a significant portion of our revenues from clients outside the United States. International revenues accounted for 34% of total consolidated revenues for each of the quarters ended December 31, 2017 and 2016. A significant portion of our revenues are derived from the sale of products and services within the banking (including consumer credit) industry, and 79% and 74% of our revenues were derived from within this industry during the quarters ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. In addition, we derive a significant share of revenues from transactional or unit-based software license fees, transactional fees derived under credit scoring, data processing, data management and SaaS subscription services arrangements, and annual software maintenance fees. Arrangements with transactional or unit-based pricing accounted for 74% and 70% of our revenues during the quarters ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. 
We continue to drive growth in our Scores segment. Scores revenue increased 18% to $69.9 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2017 from $59.4 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2016. Scores operating income increased 17% to $54.0 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2017 from $46.1 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2016. For our Applications and Decision Management Software segments, our cloud business continues to grow both in the absolute dollar value and as a percentage of revenues as we pursue our cloud-first strategy. During the quarter ended December 31, 2017, cloud revenues accounted for $56.6 million, or 24% of revenues, compared to $50.1 million, or 23% of revenues during the quarter ended December 31, 2016. 
Operating income for the quarter ended December 31, 2017 was $39.9 million, an increase of 14% from $34.9 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2016. Net earnings decreased 28% to $27.3 million from $37.9 million primarily due to the income tax expense related to enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, partially offset by the increase in operating income.
We continue to enhance stockholder value by returning cash to stockholders through our stock repurchase program. During the quarter ended December 31, 2017, we repurchased approximately 0.3 million shares at a total repurchase price of $49.6 million. As of December 31, 2017, we had $237.0 million remaining under our current stock repurchase program.
•Regulatory and other factors that affect the business environment in which our customers operate.
We calculate maintenance bookings directly from the terms stated in the contract.
We calculate professional services bookings as the estimated number of hours to complete a project multiplied by the rate per hour. We estimate the number of hours based on our understanding of the project scope, conversations with customer personnel and our experience in estimating professional services projects. Estimated bookings may differ from actual results primarily due to differences in the actual number of hours incurred. These differences typically result from customer decisions to alter the mix of FICO and customer services resources used to complete a project.
Licenses are sold on a perpetual or term basis and bookings generally equal the fixed amount stated in the contract.
Scores segment revenues increased $10.5 million due to an increase of $5.5 million in our business-to-consumer services revenue and $5.0 million in our business-to-business scores revenue. The increase in business-to-consumer services was primarily attributable to an increase in royalties derived from scores sold indirectly to consumers through credit reporting agencies. The increase in business-to-business scores was primarily attributable to an increase in our transactional scores driven by new originations, account management and prescreen. 
During the quarters ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, revenues generated from our agreements with Equifax, TransUnion and Experian collectively accounted for 21% and 18%, respectively, of our total revenues, including revenues from these customers recorded in our other segments.
Decision Management Software segment revenues decreased $1.5 million primarily attributable to a decrease in license revenue related to our FICO® Blaze Advisor® product.
Over the next several quarters, we expect cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues will be consistent with that incurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2017.
Research and development expenses include personnel and related overhead costs incurred in the development of new products and services, including research of mathematical and statistical models and development of new versions of Applications and Decision Management Software products.
Research and development expenses increased $2.8 million to $29.0 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2017 from $26.2 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2016, primarily attributable to our continued investment in cloud computing and SaaS, as well as other new products. Research and development expenses as a percentage of revenues was 12% during the quarter ended December 31, 2017, consistent with that incurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2016.
Over the next several quarters, we expect research and development expenditures as a percentage of revenues will be consistent with that incurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2017.
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $5.1 million to $90.3 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2017 from $85.2 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2016, primarily attributable to an increase in personnel and labor costs as a result of increased headcount. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues was 38% during the quarter ended December 31, 2017, materially consistent with that incurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2016.
Over the next several quarters, we expect selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues will be consistent with that incurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2017.
Amortization of intangible assets consists of amortization expense related to intangible assets recorded in connection with acquisitions accounted for by the acquisition method of accounting. Our finite-lived intangible assets, consisting primarily of completed technology and customer contracts and relationships, are being amortized using the straight-line method over periods ranging from four to fifteen years.
The quarter over quarter decrease in amortization expense of $1.5 million was primarily attributable to certain intangible assets associated with our HNC and Adeptra acquisitions becoming fully amortized in August and September 2017, respectively. 
Over the next several quarters we expect that amortization expense will be consistent with the amortization expense we recorded during the quarter ended December 31, 2017.
Interest expense includes primarily interest on the senior notes issued in May 2008 and July 2010, as well as interest and credit facility fees on the revolving line of credit. Our consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income include interest expense netted with interest income, which is derived primarily from the investment of funds in excess of our immediate operating requirements. 
The quarter over quarter increase in interest expense of $0.3 million was primarily attributable to a higher average outstanding balance on our revolving line of credit, partially offset by the $72.0 million principal payment in July 2017 on the senior notes issued in July 2010 resulting in lower average debt balance for the quarter ended December 31, 2017.
Over the next several quarters we expect net interest expense will be higher than the net interest expense incurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2017.
The quarter over quarter $5.0 million increase in operating income was attributable to a $15.7 million increase in segment revenues and a $1.5 million decrease in amortization cost, partially offset by an $8.1 million increase in segment operating expenses, a $2.1 million increase in corporate expenses and a $2.0 million increase in share-based compensation cost.
At the segment level, the quarter over quarter $5.5 million increase in segment operating income was the result of an $8.0 million increase in our Scores segment operating income, a $3.8 million increase in our Applications segment operating income, partially offset by a $4.2 million increase in our Decision Management Software segment operating loss and a $2.1 million increase in corporate expense.
The quarter over quarter $3.8 million increase in Applications segment operating income was due to a $6.6 million increase in segment revenues, partially offset by a $2.8 million increase in segment operating expenses. Segment operating income as a percentage of segment revenue for Applications was 27%, materially consistent with the quarter ended December 31, 2016.
The quarter over quarter $8.0 million increase in Scores segment operating income was due to a $10.5 million increase in segment revenue, partially offset by a $2.5 million increase in segment operating expenses. Segment operating income as a percentage of segment revenue for Scores was 77%, materially consistent with the quarter ended December 31, 2016.
Our primary method for funding operations and growth has been through cash flows generated from operating activities. Net cash provided by operating activities decreased to $28.8 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2017 from $33.0 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2016. The $4.2 million decrease was mainly attributable to a $4.6 million decrease that resulted from timing of receipts and payments in our ordinary course of business.
In July 2016, our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program following the completion of our previous program. This program was open-ended and authorized repurchases of shares of our common stock up to an aggregate cost of $250.0 million in the open market or in negotiated transactions. In October 2017, our Board of Directors approved a new stock repurchase program following the completion of the July 2016 program. The new program is open-ended and authorizes repurchases of shares of our common stock up to an aggregate cost of $250.0 million in the open market or in negotiated transactions.
Pursuant to the July 2016 and October 2017 programs, we repurchased 334,918 shares of our common stock at a total repurchase price of $49.6 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2017. We had $237.0 million remaining under the October 2017 authorization as of December 31, 2017.
Software license fee revenue is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, software is made available to our customers, the fee is fixed or determinable and collection is probable. The determination of whether fees are fixed or determinable and collection is probable involves the use of assumptions. If at the outset of an arrangement we determine that the arrangement fee is not fixed or determinable, revenue is deferred until the arrangement fee becomes fixed or determinable, assuming all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. If at the outset of an arrangement we determine that collectability is not probable, revenue is deferred until the earlier of when collectability becomes probable or the receipt of payment. If there is uncertainty as to the customer’s acceptance of our deliverables, revenue is not recognized until the earlier of receipt of customer acceptance, expiration of the acceptance period, or when we can demonstrate we meet the acceptance criteria. We evaluate contract terms and customer information to ensure that these criteria are met prior to our recognition of license fee revenue.
Revenues from post-contract customer support services, such as software maintenance, are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the support period. The majority of our software maintenance agreements provide technical support as well as unspecified software product upgrades and releases when and if made available by us during the term of the support period.
Transactional-based revenue is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, fees are fixed or determinable, and collection is probable. Revenues from our credit scoring, data processing, data management and SaaS subscription services are recognized as these services are performed. Revenues from transactional or unit-based license fees under software license arrangements, credit scoring, data processing, data management and SaaS subscription services agreements are recognized based on minimum contractual amounts or on system usage that exceeds minimum contractual amounts. Certain of our transactional-based revenues are based on transaction or active account volumes as reported by our clients. In instances where volumes are reported to us in arrears, we estimate volumes based on preliminary customer transaction information or average actual reported volumes for an immediate trailing period. Differences between our estimates and actual final volumes reported are recorded in the period in which actual volumes are reported. We have not experienced significant variances between our estimates and actual reported volumes in the past and anticipate that we will be able to continue to make reasonable estimates in the future. If for some reason we were unable to reasonably estimate transaction volumes in the future, revenue may be deferred until actual customer data is received, and this could have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations.
We provide consulting, training, model development and software integration services under both hourly-based time and materials and fixed-priced contracts. Revenues from these services are generally recognized as the services are performed. For fixed-price service contracts, we use a proportionate performance model with hours as the input method of attribution to determine progress towards completion, with consideration also given to output measures, such as contract milestones, when applicable. In such instances, management is required to estimate the total estimated hours of the project. Adjustments to estimates are made in the period in which the facts requiring such revisions become known and, accordingly, recognized revenues and profits are subject to revisions as the contract progresses to completion. Estimated losses, if any, are recorded in the period in which current estimates of total contract revenue and contract costs indicate a loss. If substantive uncertainty related to customer acceptance of services exists, we defer the associated revenue until the contract is completed. We have not experienced significant variances between our estimates and actual hours in the past and anticipate that we will be able to continue to make reasonable estimates in the future. If for some reason we are unable to accurately estimate the input measures, revenue would be deferred until the contract is complete, and this could have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations.
Services that are sold in connection with software license arrangements generally qualify for separate accounting from the license element because they do not involve significant production, modification or customization of our products and are not otherwise considered to be essential to the functionality of our software. In arrangements where the professional services do not qualify for separate accounting from the license element, the combined software license and professional services revenue are recognized based on contract accounting using either the percentage-of-completion or completed-contract method.
If a deliverable does not have standalone value because the aforementioned criteria are not met, we combine it with the other applicable undelivered item(s) within the arrangement and account for the multiple deliverables as one combined unit of accounting. For example, for hosting arrangements requiring a highly specialized and unique set of initial implementation and setup services prior to the commencement of hosting services, we typically conclude that these implementation or setup services do not have value to the customer on a stand-alone basis; therefore, we combine them with the hosting services as a combined unit of accounting. Revenue is recognized upon commencement of our hosting services over the expected life of the customer relationship.
We apply accounting guidance to determine whether we report revenue for certain transactions based upon the gross amount billed to the customer, or the net amount retained by us. In accordance with the guidance we record revenue on a gross basis for sales in which we have acted as the principal and on a net basis for those sales in which we have in substance acted as an agent or broker in the transaction.
Accounting for our acquisitions requires us to recognize, separately from goodwill, the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed at their acquisition-date fair values. Goodwill as of the acquisition date is measured as the excess of consideration transferred and the net of the acquisition-date fair values of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. While we use our best estimates and assumptions to accurately value assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date, our estimates are inherently uncertain and subject to refinement. As a result, during the measurement period, which may be up to one year from the acquisition date, we record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed with the corresponding offset to goodwill. Upon the conclusion of the measurement period or final determination of the values of assets acquired or liabilities assumed, whichever comes first, any subsequent adjustments are recorded to our consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income.
For fiscal 2017, we elected to proceed directly to the step one quantitative analysis for all of our reporting units, as three years had elapsed since the date of our previous quantitative valuation. There was a substantial excess of fair value over carrying value for each of our reporting units and we determined goodwill was not impaired for any of our reporting units for fiscal 2017. 
Our intangible assets that have finite useful lives and other long-lived assets are assessed for potential impairment when there is evidence that events and circumstances related to our financial performance and economic environment indicate the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. When impairment indicators are identified, we test for impairment using undiscounted cash flows. If such tests indicate impairment, then we measure and record the impairment as the difference between the carrying value of the asset and the fair value of the asset. Significant management judgment is required in forecasting future operating results used in the preparation of the projected cash flows. Should different conditions prevail, material write downs of our intangible assets or other long-lived assets could occur. We review the estimated remaining useful lives of our acquired intangible assets at each reporting period. A reduction in our estimate of remaining useful lives, if any, could result in increased annual amortization expense in future periods.
A description of our accounting policies associated with tax-related contingencies and valuation allowances assumed as part of a business combination is provided under “Business Combinations” above.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU No. 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)” (“ASU 2014-09”). ASU 2014-09 requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue to which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers. ASU 2014-09 will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles when it becomes effective and permits the use of either the retrospective or cumulative effect transition method. The guidance also requires additional disclosure about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customer contracts. In August 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-14, “Deferral of the Effective Date” (“ASU 2015-14”), which defers the effective date for ASU 2014-09 by one year. For public entities, the guidance in ASU 2014-09 will be effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017 (including interim reporting periods within those periods), which means it will be effective for our fiscal year beginning October 1, 2018. Early adoption is permitted to the original effective date of December 15, 2016 (including interim reporting periods within those periods). In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-08, “Principal versus Agent Considerations (Reporting Revenue versus Net)” (“ASU 2016-08”), which clarifies the implementation guidance on principal versus agent considerations in the new revenue recognition standard. In April 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-10, “Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing” (“ASU 2016-10”), which reduces the complexity when applying the guidance for identifying performance obligations and improves the operability and understandability of the license implementation guidance. In May 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-12 “Narrow-Scope Improvements and Practical Expedients” (“ASU 2016-12”), which amends the guidance on transition, collectability, noncash consideration and the presentation of sales and other similar taxes. In December 2016, the FASB further issued ASU 2016-20, “Technical Corrections and Improvements to Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers” (“ASU 2016-20”), which makes minor corrections or minor improvements to the Codification that are not expected to have a significant effect on current accounting practice or create a significant administrative cost to most entities. The amendments are intended to address implementation issues that were raised by stakeholders and provide additional practical expedients to reduce the cost and complexity of applying the new revenue standard. These amendments have the same effective date as the new revenue standard. Preliminarily, we plan to adopt Topic 606 in the first quarter of our fiscal 2019 using the retrospective transition method, and are continuing to evaluate the impact our pending adoption of Topic 606 will have on our consolidated financial statements.
We have established a cross-functional implementation team consisting of representatives across the organization to address the scope of work required to implement the recognition and disclosure requirements under the new standard. This cross-functional implementation team has developed a project plan, which includes evaluating customer contracts across the organization, developing policies, processes and tools to report financial results, and implementing and evaluating our internal controls over financial reporting that will be necessary under the new standard. We currently plan to adopt Topic 606 in the first quarter of our fiscal 2019 using the retrospective transition method. Our ability to adopt Topic 606 using the full retrospective method is dependent on system readiness, and the completion of our analysis of information necessary to restate prior period financial statements. As we continue to assess the new standard along with industry trends and additional interpretive guidance, we may adjust our implementation plan accordingly.
•Presentation of contract balances. Under the new standard, when we enter into noncancellable contracts that provide unconditional rights to payment from our customers for services that we have not yet completed providing or services we will provide in the near future, we expect to present the unconditional rights as receivables, regardless of whether cash has been received from customers; 
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842)” (“ASU 2016-02”), which requires lessees to put most leases on their balance sheets but recognize the expenses on their income statements in a manner similar to current practice. ASU 2016-02 states that a lessee would recognize a lease liability for the obligation to make lease payments and a right-to-use asset for the right to use the underlying asset for the lease term. ASU 2016-02 is effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, which means it will be effective for our fiscal year beginning October 1, 2019. Early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the timing of our adoption and the impact that the updated standard will have on our consolidated financial statements.
Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
