fls.txt



item1.txt
We provide security products, services and solutions to organizations and individuals.
In the opinion of management, the unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contain all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring items, except as otherwise noted, necessary for the fair presentation of our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows for the interim periods.
These unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 30, 2018.
The results of operations for the three and nine months ended December 28, 2018, are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for the entire fiscal year.
Such estimates include, but are not limited to, the determination of revenue recognition, valuation of goodwill, intangible assets and long-lived assets, income taxes, valuation of stock-based awards and recognition of stock-based compensation expense, and loss contingencies.
There have been no material changes to our significant accounting policies as of and for the nine months ended December 28, 2018, except for those noted in Note 2 and Note 3, as compared to the significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 30, 2018.
The standard’s core principle is that a company recognizes revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that the company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services.
In addition, companies are required to capitalize certain contract acquisition costs, including commissions paid, when contracts are signed.
The asset recognized from capitalized incremental and recoverable acquisition costs is amortized on a straight-line basis consistent with the timing of transfer of the products or services to which the asset relates.
On March 31, 2018, the first day of our fiscal 2019, we adopted the new guidance on a modified retrospective basis, applying the practical expedient to all uncompleted contracts as of March 31, 2018, and as a result, results for reporting periods beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal 2019 are presented under the new revenue recognition guidance, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported under the prior revenue recognition guidance.
During the three and nine months ended December 28, 2018, as a result of the adoption of the new revenue recognition guidance, our net revenue increased $17 million and $26 million, respectively.
Our operating expenses increased $1 million during the three months ended December 28, 2018 and decreased $10 million during the nine months ended December 28, 2018.
The adoption of the new revenue recognition guidance had no impact on our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
The new guidance enhances the reporting model for financial instruments, which includes amendments to address aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure.
In October 2016, the FASB issued new authoritative guidance that requires entities to immediately recognize the tax consequences of intercompany asset transfers, excluding inventory, at the transaction date, rather than deferring the tax consequences under legacy GAAP.
This cumulative-effect adjustment primarily consisted of additional deferred tax assets related to an intra-entity sale of intangible assets in periods prior to adoption, partially offset by the write-off of income tax consequences deferred from pre-adoption intra-entity transfers and other liabilities for amounts not recognized under legacy GAAP.
In February 2016, the FASB issued new guidance on lease accounting which will require lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on their balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by operating leases and will also require disclosures designed to give users of financial statements information on the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.


item2.txt
•Net revenues were relatively flat compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, as increases in revenue from our identity and information protection solutions and from the impact of the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard were partially offset by a decrease as a result of the divestiture of our website security (“WSS”) and public key infrastructure (“PKI”) solutions in October 2017.
•Net income and diluted net income per share decreased primarily due to the absence of a gain on the divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions and a net income tax benefit as a result of the Act, both of which were recorded in our third quarter of fiscal 2018.
•Net revenues decreased 2% primarily as a result of the divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions, partially offset by an increase in revenue from our identity and information protection solutions.
•Operating income increased $230 million primarily due to increased revenue from our identity and information protection solutions and lower stock-based compensation, partially offset by the negative impact to Enterprise Security Segment operating income due to the fiscal 2018 divestiture of WSS and PKI solutions.


item4.txt



part2.txt
A decrease in demand for our solutions could adversely affect our financial results.
Fluctuations in our quarterly financial results have affected the trading price of our outstanding securities in the past and could affect the trading price of outstanding securities in the future.
Our customers’ renewal rates, and our customer retention, may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our solutions or our customer support, customer budgets and the pricing of our solutions compared with the solutions offered by our competitors, any of which may cause our revenue to grow more slowly than expected, or to decline.
Matters relating to or arising from our Audit Committee Investigation, including regulatory investigations and proceedings, litigation matters and potential additional expenses, may adversely affect our business and results of operations.
We are subject to pending securities class action and stockholder derivative legal proceedings that may adversely affect our business.
Further, the amount of time that will be required to resolve these lawsuits is unpredictable and these actions may divert management’s attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could further adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows.
The delayed filing of some of our periodic SEC reports has made us currently ineligible to use a registration statement on Form S-3 to register the offer and sale of securities, which could adversely affect our ability to raise future capital or complete acquisitions.
As a result of the delayed filing of some of our periodic reports with the SEC, we will not be eligible to register the offer and sale of our securities using a registration statement on Form S-3 until November 2019, at the earliest.
Should we wish to register the offer and sale of our securities to the public prior to the time we are eligible to use Form S-3, both our transaction costs and the amount of time required to complete the transaction could increase, making it more difficult to execute any such transaction successfully and potentially harming our financial condition.


