fls.txt
The discussion below contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to safe harbors under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) and the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).


item1.txt
In the opinion of management, the unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contain all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring items, except as otherwise noted, necessary for the fair presentation of our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows for the interim periods.
These unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we adopted new guidance to simplify accounting for share-based payment transactions.
There have been no other material changes in our significant accounting policies as of and for the nine months ended December 29, 2017, as compared to the significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017.
Our Consumer Digital Safety segment focuses on providing a comprehensive Digital Safety solution to protect information, devices, networks and the identities of consumers.
This solution includes our Norton-branded services, which provide multi-layer security across major desktop and mobile operating systems, public Wi-Fi connections, and home networks, to defend against increasingly complex online threats to individuals, families and small businesses, and our LifeLock-branded identity protection services.
With the addition of LifeLock-branded identity protection services, we are providing a comprehensive digital safety solution designed to protect information across devices, customer identities and the connected home and family and accelerating our leadership in Consumer Digital Safety to protect all aspects of consumers’ digital lives.
Diluted net income per share also includes the incremental effect of dilutive potentially issuable common shares outstanding during the period using the treasury stock method.
Dilutive potentially issuable common shares includes the dilutive effect of the shares underlying convertible debt and employee equity awards.
Under the treasury stock method, our Convertible Senior Notes will generally have a dilutive impact on net income per share when our average stock price for the period exceeds approximately $16.77 per share for the 2.5% Convertible Senior Notes and $20.41 per share for the 2.0% Convertible Senior Notes.
During the three and nine months ended December 30, 2016, the conversion feature of both notes was anti-dilutive due to a loss from continuing operations.
See Note 2 for information regarding the reconciliation of total segment operating income to total consolidated operating income (loss).
We have reduced headcount and closed certain facilities in connection with the Fiscal 2017 Plan and expect additional headcount reductions and facilities closures.


item2.txt
(“DigiCert”) for an aggregate consideration of $1.1 billion, consisting of approximately $960 million in cash and shares of common stock representing an approximate 28% interest in the outstanding common stock of DigiCert valued at $160 million as of the transaction date.
See Note 6 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on our divestiture.
This solution includes our Norton-branded services, which provide multi-layer security across major desktop and mobile operating systems, public Wi-Fi connections, and home networks, to defend against increasingly complex online threats to individuals, families and small businesses, and our LifeLock-branded identity protection services.
Our LifeLock-branded identity protection services primarily consist of identifying and notifying users of identity-related and other events and assisting users in remediating their impact.
With the addition of LifeLock-branded identity protection services, we are providing a comprehensive digital safety solution designed to protect information across devices, customer identities and the connected home and family and accelerating our leadership in Consumer Digital Safety to protect all aspects of consumers’ digital lives.
For more information on our operating segments see Note 2 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The following is an overview of key financial metrics in millions and the respective metrics as a percentage of revenues.
•We paid aggregate cash consideration of $402 million for our acquisitions.
Our percentage of revenues from the Americas for the three and nine months ended December 29, 2017 increased compared to prior year periods primarily as a result of LifeLock sales which are entirely U.S.-based.
Our cost of revenues increased $174 million, or 29%, primarily due to cost of revenues related to our acquired Blue Coat and LifeLock products, including $83 million of increased amortization of acquired intangible assets and $52 million of increased technical support costs primarily driven by the LifeLock acquisition.
Sales and marketing expense were relatively flat compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017.
Research and development expense increased $21 million, or 10%, primarily due to an increase of $24 million in stock-based compensation expense primarily related to the equity awards assumed or granted in connection with our acquisitions.
Amortization of intangible assets increased $9 million primarily due to the intangible assets acquired in the LifeLock acquisition.
Sales and marketing expense increased $233 million, or 23%, primarily as a result of increased expenses from the Blue Coat and LifeLock acquisitions, including increases of $143 million in advertising and promotional expense, largely related to LifeLock, $60 million in stock-based compensation expense, primarily from awards assumed in acquisitions, and $36 million in other compensation and benefits expense.


item4.txt
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) defines the term “disclosure controls and procedures” to mean a company’s controls and other procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported, within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms.


part2.txt
Information with respect to this Item may be found under the heading “Litigation contingencies” in Note 12 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-Q, which information is incorporated herein by reference.


