item1.txt
In the opinion of management, the unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contain all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring items, except as otherwise noted, necessary for the fair presentation of our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows for the interim periods.
These unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 30, 2018.
The results of operations for the three and six months ended September 28, 2018, are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for the entire fiscal year.
There have been no material changes to our significant accounting policies as of and for the six months ended September 28, 2018, except for those noted in Note 2 and Note 3, as compared to the significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 30, 2018.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued new authoritative guidance for revenue from contracts with customers.
The standard’s core principle is that a company recognizes revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that the company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services.
In addition, companies are required to capitalize certain contract acquisition costs, including commissions paid, when contracts are signed.
The asset recognized from capitalized incremental and recoverable acquisition costs is amortized on a straight-line basis consistent with the timing of transfer of the products or services to which the asset relates.
On March 31, 2018, the first day of our fiscal 2019, we adopted the new guidance on a modified retrospective basis, applying the practical expedient to all uncompleted contracts as of March 31, 2018, and as a result, results for reporting periods beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal 2019 are presented under the new revenue recognition guidance, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported under the prior revenue recognition guidance.
During the three and six months ended September 28, 2018, as a result of the adoption of the new revenue recognition guidance, our net revenue increased $4 million and $9 million, respectively, and operating expenses decreased $2 million and $11 million, respectively.
The adoption of the new revenue recognition guidance had no impact on our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
The new guidance enhances the reporting model for financial instruments, which includes amendments to address aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure.
Based on the composition of our investment portfolio, the adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
In October 2016, the FASB issued new authoritative guidance that requires entities to immediately recognize the tax consequences of intercompany asset transfers, excluding inventory, at the transaction date, rather than deferring the tax consequences under legacy GAAP.
This cumulative-effect adjustment primarily consisted of additional deferred tax assets related to an intra-entity sale of intangible assets in periods prior to adoption, partially offset by the write-off of income tax consequences deferred from pre-adoption intra-entity transfers and other liabilities for amounts not recognized under legacy GAAP.
In February 2016, the FASB issued new guidance on lease accounting which will require lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on their balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by operating leases and will also require disclosures designed to give users of financial statements information on the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.


item2.txt
•Net revenues decreased 5% primarily as a result of the divestiture of our website security (“WSS”) and public key infrastructure (“PKI”) solutions in the third quarter of fiscal 2018, partially offset by an increase in revenue from our identity and information protection solutions.
•Operating income increased $111 million primarily due to increased revenue from our identity and information protection solutions, and lower stock-based compensation expense and restructuring, transition and other costs, partially offset by the absence in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 of operating income from our divested WSS and PKI solutions.
•Net loss and diluted net loss per share decreased primarily due to increased operating income, partially offset by higher income tax expense.
•Net revenues decreased 3% primarily as a result of the divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions, partially offset by an increase in revenue from our identity and information protection solutions.
•Operating income increased $157 million primarily due to increased revenue from our identity and information protection solutions, and lower stock-based compensation and restructuring, transition and other costs, partially offset by the absence in the first six months of fiscal 2019 of operating income from our divested WSS and PKI solutions.


item4.txt



part2.txt
A decrease in demand for our solutions could adversely affect our financial results.
Fluctuations in our quarterly financial results have affected the trading price of our outstanding securities in the past and could affect the trading price of outstanding securities in the future.
•Disruptions in our business operations or target markets caused by, among other things, terrorism or other intentional acts, outbreaks of disease, or earthquakes, floods, or other natural disasters.
A large portion of our revenue is derived from arrangements for maintenance, subscriptions, managed security services and cloud offerings, yet customers have no contractual obligation to purchase additional solutions after the initial subscription or contract period.
Our customers’ renewal rates, and our customer retention, may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our solutions or our customer support, customer budgets and the pricing of our solutions compared with the solutions offered by our competitors, any of which may cause our revenue to grow more slowly than expected, or to decline.
Matters relating to or arising from our Audit Committee Investigation, including regulatory investigations and proceedings, litigation matters and potential additional expenses, may adversely affect our business and results of operations.
These expenses, the delay in timely filing our periodic reports, and the diversion of the attention of the management team that has occurred, and is expected to continue, has adversely affected, and could continue to adversely affect, our business and financial condition.
Any future investigations or additional lawsuits may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.


