We provide cyber security products, services, and solutions.
Our Integrated Cyber Defense Platform helps business and government customers unify cloud and on-premises security to deliver a more effective cyber defense solution, while driving down cost and complexity.
The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the United States of America (U.S.) for interim financial information.
In the opinion of management, the unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contain all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring items, except as otherwise noted, necessary for the fair presentation of our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows for the interim periods.
These unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 29, 2019.
The results of operations for the three months ended July 5, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for the entire fiscal year.
Such estimates include, but are not limited to, the determination of stand-alone selling price for performance obligations, valuation of business combinations including acquired intangible assets and goodwill, loss contingencies, valuation of stock-based compensation, and the recognition and measurement of current and deferred income taxes, including the measurement of uncertain tax positions.
There have been no material changes to our significant accounting policies as of and for the three months ended July 5, 2019, except for those noted in Note 2 and Note 4, as compared to the significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 29, 2019.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued new guidance on lease accounting which requires lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on their balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by operating leases and also requires disclosures designed to give users of financial statements information on the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
Under the standard, disclosures are required to meet the objective of enabling users of financial statements to assess the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
On March 30, 2019, the first day of our fiscal 2020, we adopted the new guidance using the alternative modified retrospective transition method under which we continue to apply the legacy lease accounting guidance, including its disclosure requirements, in comparative periods prior to fiscal 2020.Our Enterprise Security segment focuses on providing our Integrated Cyber Defense solutions to help business and government customers unify cloud and on-premises security to deliver a more effective cyber defense solution, while driving down cost and complexity.
See Subsequent event below and Note 17 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about the planned divestiture of our Enterprise Security business.The announcement and pendency of the sale of our Enterprise Security assets, whether or not completed, may adversely affect our Enterprise Security and our Cyber Safety Security segment.
The announcement and pendency of the Sale may adversely affect the trading price of our outstanding securities, our business or our relationships with customers, contract manufacturers, suppliers, business partners and employees.
Third parties may be unwilling to enter into material agreements with respect to the Enterprise Security business or the Cyber Safety Security business.
New or existing customers, suppliers and business partners may prefer to enter into agreements with our competitors who have not expressed an intention to sell their business because customers, suppliers and business partners may perceive that such new relationships are likely to be more stable.
Additionally, employees working in the Enterprise Security business or the Cyber Safety Security business may become concerned about the future of the Enterprise Security or the Cyber Safety Security business, as applicable, and lose focus or seek other employment.
In addition, if the Sale is not completed, our Board of Directors, in discharging its fiduciary obligations to our stockholders, may evaluate other strategic options including, but not limited to, continuing to operate the Enterprise Security business for the foreseeable future or an alternative sale transaction relating to the Enterprise Security business or the Cyber Safety Security business.