fls.txt



item1.txt
In connection with the sale of certain assets of our Enterprise Security business as disclosed in Basis of presentation below, effective November 4, 2019, we changed our corporate name from Symantec Corporation to NortonLifeLock Inc. On August 8, 2019, we entered into a definitive agreement with Broadcom Inc.
(Broadcom) under which Broadcom agreed to purchase certain of our Enterprise Security assets and assume certain liabilities for a purchase price of $10.7 billion (the Broadcom sale).
The divestiture of our Enterprise Security business allows us to shift our operational focus to our consumer business and represents a strategic shift in our operations.
Results of discontinued operations include all revenues and expenses directly derived from the Enterprise Security business, with the exception of revenues and associated costs of our ID Analytics solutions, which were formerly included in the Enterprise Security segment, and general corporate overhead which were previously allocated to the Enterprise Security segment but are not allocated to discontinued operations.
These revenues and expenses are now included in continuing operations.
The assets acquired and liabilities to be sold to Broadcom, as specified in the August 8, 2019 definitive agreement, were classified as discontinued operations in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, subject to changes set forth in the agreement.
See Notes 3 and 18 for additional information about the divestiture of our Enterprise Security business.
In the opinion of management, the unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contain all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring items, except as otherwise noted, necessary for the fair presentation of our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows for the interim periods.
These unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 29, 2019.
The results of operations for the six months ended October 4, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for the entire fiscal year.
Such estimates include, but are not limited to, the determination of stand-alone selling price for performance obligations, valuation of business combinations including acquired intangible assets and goodwill, loss contingencies, valuation of stock-based compensation, and the recognition and measurement of current and deferred income taxes, including the measurement of uncertain tax positions.
There have been no material changes to our significant accounting policies as of and for the six months ended October 4, 2019, except for those noted in Note 2 and Note 5, as compared to the significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 29, 2019.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued new guidance on lease accounting which requires lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on their balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by operating leases and also requires disclosures designed to give users of financial statements information on the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
Most prominent among the changes in the standard is the recognition of right-of-use (ROU) assets and lease liabilities by lessees for those leases classified as operating leases.
Under the standard, disclosures are required to meet the objective of enabling users of financial statements to assess the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
On March 30, 2019, the first day of our fiscal 2020, we adopted the new guidance using the alternative modified retrospective transition method under which we continue to apply the legacy lease accounting guidance, including its disclosure requirements, in comparative periods prior to fiscal 2020.


item2.txt
Revenues and associated costs of our ID Analytics solutions, which were formerly included in the Enterprise Security segment, are now included in our remaining reportable segment.
•Operating income increased $60 million primarily due to lower restructuring, transition and other expense, partially offset by higher advertisement and promotion costs.
•Income (loss) from continuing operations, net of taxes, increased $97 million primarily due to lower operating expenses.
•Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes, increased $696 million primarily due to higher income tax benefits.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Transitions of this type can be disruptive, result in the loss of focus and employee morale and make the execution of business strategies more difficult.
We are dependent upon Broadcom for certain engineering services, which are critical to our products and business.
Our endpoint security solution has historically relied upon certain threat analytics software engines and other software (the Engine-Related Services) that have been developed and provided by engineering teams that have transferred to Broadcom as part of the Broadcom sale.
The technology, including source code, at issue is shared, and pursuant to the terms of the Broadcom sale, we retain rights to use, modify, enhance and create derivative works from such technology.
As a result, we are dependent on Broadcom for services and technology that are critical to our business, and if Broadcom fails to deliver these Engine-Related Services it would result in significant business disruption, and our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected.
The resource constraints as a result of our focus on completing the transaction, which included the loss of employees, could have a continuing impact on the execution of our business strategy and our overall operating results.
Additionally, in connection with the divestiture, our Board of Directors committed to returning the proceeds of the Broadcom sale to stockholders in the form of a capital return program, including a special dividend of $12 per share and the August 2019 increase of our existing share repurchase authorization from $500 million to $1.6 billion.
Any cost reduction initiatives that we undertake may not deliver the results we expect, and these actions may adversely affect our business.
Actions under this plan will include the reduction of our workforce by approximately 3,100 employees, as well as asset impairments, contract terminations, facilities closures, and the sale of underutilized facilities.


