fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company has a 52-53 week fiscal year that ends on the Saturday closest to the last day in October.
Fiscal 2019 is a 52-week fiscal year and fiscal 2018 was a 53-week fiscal year.
The additional week in fiscal 2018 was included in the first quarter ended February 3, 2018.
Certain amounts reported in previous periods have been reclassified to conform to the fiscal 2019 presentation.
The two permitted transition methods under the new standard are the full retrospective method, in which case the standard would be applied to each prior reporting period presented and the cumulative effect of applying the standard would be recognized at the earliest period showing, or the modified retrospective method, in which case the cumulative effect of applying the standard would be recognized as of the date of initial application.
The adoption of ASU 2014-09 impacted the Company’s condensed consolidated statements of income and balance sheets but did not impact its condensed consolidated statements of cash flows, with the exceptions of net income and reclassifications within adjustments to reconcile net income to cash provided by operations and did not impact the condensed consolidated statement of shareholders' equity, with the exceptions of retained earnings and net income.
Accordingly, the amounts for all periods presented in this Form 10-Q reflect the impact of ASU 2014-09.
These measures are used to measure results directly and is generally the best measure of progress toward completion in circumstances in which a reliable measure of output can be established.
Estimated revenue in excess of amounts billed is reported as unbilled receivables.
Contract accounting requires judgment in estimating costs and assumptions related to technical issues and delivery schedule.
Contract costs include material, subcontract costs, labor and an allocation of indirect costs.
During the three-month period ended February 2, 2019, the total intrinsic value of options exercised (i.e., the difference between the market price at exercise and the price paid by the employee to exercise the options) was $27.1 million, and the total amount of proceeds received by the Company from the exercise of these options was $19.2 million.
As of February 2, 2019, the Company had repurchased a total of approximately 151.5 million shares of its common stock for approximately $5.8 billion under the Company's share repurchase program.
The following table provides the changes in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (OCI) by component and the related tax effects during the first three months of fiscal 2019.
The Company estimates $0.8 million, net of tax, of losses of forward foreign currency derivative instruments included in OCI will be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months.
As of November 3, 2018, the Company held 15 investment securities, 15 of which were in an unrealized loss position with immaterial gross unrealized losses and an aggregate fair value of $205.0 million.


item2.txt
We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements, including to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of the filing of this report, except to the extent required by law.
The categorization of revenue by end market is determined using a variety of data points including the technical characteristics of the product, the “sold to” customer information, the “ship to” customer information and the end customer product or application into which our product will be incorporated.
When this occurs, we reclassify revenue by end market for prior periods.
Such reclassifications typically do not materially change the sizing of, or the underlying trends of results within, each end market.
In addition, Consumer end market revenues decreased in the three-month period ended February 2, 2019, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year as a result of decreased demand for products used in portable consumer applications.


item3.txt



part2.txt
The description below includes any material changes to and supersedes the description of the risk factors affecting our business previously discussed in "Risk Factors” set forth in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 3, 2018.
Financial difficulties experienced by our customers could result in nonpayment or payment delays for previously purchased products, thereby increasing our credit risk exposure.
•a decline in the U.S. government defense budget, changes in spending or budgetary priorities, a prolonged U.S. government shutdown or delays in contract awards; In addition, the semiconductor market has historically been cyclical and subject to significant economic upturns and downturns.
As a result of these and other factors, we may experience material fluctuations in future revenue, gross margins, operating results, net income and earnings per share on a quarterly or annual basis.
We primarily rely on patent, mask work, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies and processes.
As such, any rights granted under these patents may not provide us with adequate protection.
We may not be able to obtain foreign patents or pending applications corresponding to our U.S. patents and applications.
Even if patents are granted, enforcement may not be available or achieved under the circumstances.


