In the opinion of management, the information furnished in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements reflects all normal recurring adjustments that are necessary to fairly state the results for these interim periods and should be read in conjunction with Analog Devices, Inc.’s (the Company) Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 28, 2017 (fiscal 2017) and related notes.
The acquisition of Linear is referred to as the Acquisition.
See Note 13, Acquisitions, of these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.
Fiscal 2018 is a 53-week fiscal year and fiscal 2017 was a 52-week fiscal year.
Therefore, the first nine months of fiscal 2018 included an additional week of operations as compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2017.
Accordingly, the Company defers the revenue recognized relating to these other foreign countries until title has passed.
For multiple element arrangements, the Company allocates arrangement consideration among the elements based on the relative fair values of those elements as determined using vendor-specific objective evidence or third-party evidence.
The Company uses its best estimate of selling price to allocate arrangement consideration between the deliverables in cases where neither vendor-specific objective evidence nor third-party evidence is available.
A reserve for sales returns and allowances for customers is recorded based on historical experience or specific identification of an event necessitating a reserve.
The output measure is used to measure results directly and is generally the best measure of progress toward completion in circumstances in which a reliable measure of output can be established.
Estimated revenue in excess of amounts billed is reported as unbilled receivables.We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements, including to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of the filing of this report, except to the extent required by law.
The fiscal year ending November 3, 2018 (fiscal 2018) is a 53-week year and the fiscal year ended October 28, 2017 (fiscal 2017) was a 52-week year.
On March 10, 2017 (Acquisition Date), we completed the acquisition of Linear Technology Corporation (Linear), a designer, manufacturer and marketer of high performance analog integrated circuits.
The condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q include the financial results of Linear prospectively from the Acquisition Date.The description below includes any material changes to and supersedes the description of the risk factors affecting our business previously discussed in "Risk Factors” set forth in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 28, 2017.
Continuing uncertainty regarding the stability of global credit and financial markets may lead consumers and businesses to postpone spending, which may cause our customers to cancel, decrease or delay their existing and future orders for our products and make it difficult for us to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities.
In addition, financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers or distributors could result in product delays, increased accounts receivable defaults and inventory challenges.
Our future revenue, gross margins, operating results, net income and earnings per share are difficult to predict and may materially fluctuate.