fls.txt



item1.txt
In the opinion of management, the information furnished in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements reflects all normal recurring adjustments that are necessary to fairly state the results for these interim periods and should be read in conjunction with Analog Devices, Inc.’s (the Company) Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 28, 2017 (fiscal 2017) and related notes.
The acquisition of Linear is referred to as the Acquisition.
See Note 13, Acquisitions, of these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.
Fiscal 2018 is a 53-week fiscal year and fiscal 2017 was a 52-week fiscal year.
Therefore, the first six months of fiscal 2018 included an additional week of operations as compared to the first six months of fiscal 2017.
Accordingly, the Company defers the revenue recognized relating to these other foreign countries until title has passed.
The Company uses its best estimate of selling price to allocate arrangement consideration between the deliverables in cases where neither vendor-specific objective evidence nor third-party evidence is available.
A reserve for sales returns and allowances for customers is recorded based on historical experience or specific identification of an event necessitating a reserve.
The output measure is used to measure results directly and is generally the best measure of progress toward completion in circumstances in which a reliable measure of output can be established.
Estimated revenue in excess of amounts billed is reported as unbilled receivables.
Contract accounting requires judgment in estimating costs and assumptions related to technical issues and delivery schedule.
Contract costs include material, subcontractor costs, labor and an allocation of indirect costs.
The estimation of costs at completion of a contract is subject to numerous variables involving contract costs and estimates as to the length of time to complete the contract.
Product sales to certain international distributors are made under agreements that permit limited stock return privileges but not sales price rebates.
Revenue on these sales is recognized upon shipment at which time title passes.
In addition, such distributors are allowed to return unsold products if the Company terminates the relationship with the distributor.


item2.txt
We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements, including to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of the filing of this report, except to the extent required by law.
The fiscal year ending November 3, 2018 (fiscal 2018) is a 53-week year and the fiscal year ended October 28, 2017 (fiscal 2017) was a 52-week year.
Therefore, the first six months of fiscal 2018 included an additional week of operations as compared to the first six months of fiscal 2017.
On March 10, 2017 (Acquisition Date), we completed the acquisition of Linear Technology Corporation (Linear), a designer, manufacturer and marketer of high performance analog integrated circuits.
The acquisition of Linear is referred to as the Acquisition.
The condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q include the financial results of Linear prospectively from the Acquisition Date.


item3.txt



part2.txt
The description below includes any material changes to and supersedes the description of the risk factors affecting our business previously discussed in "Risk Factors” set forth in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 28, 2017.
Uncertainty regarding the future stability of the global credit and financial markets could cause the value of the currency in the affected markets to deteriorate, thus reducing the purchasing power of those customers.
In addition, financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers or distributors could result in product delays, increased accounts receivable defaults and inventory challenges.
fluctuations in future revenue, gross margins, operating results, net income and earnings per share on a quarterly or annual basis.
The BEPS recommendations covered a number of issues, including country-by-country reporting, permanent establishment rules, transfer pricing rules and tax treaties.
We typically do not have long-term sales contracts with our customers.
In certain markets where end-user demand may be particularly volatile and difficult to predict, some customers place orders that require us to manufacture product and have it available for shipment, even though the customer is unwilling to make a binding commitment to purchase all, or even any, of the product.


