fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company has a 52-53 week fiscal year that ends on the Saturday closest to the last day in October.
Fiscal 2019 is a 52-week fiscal year and fiscal 2018 was a 53-week fiscal year.
The additional week in fiscal 2018 was included in the first quarter ended February 3, 2018.
Therefore, the first nine months of fiscal 2019 included one less week of operations as compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
Certain amounts reported in previous periods have been reclassified to conform to the fiscal 2019 presentation.
The two permitted transition methods under the new standard are the full retrospective method, in which case the standard would be applied to each prior reporting period presented and the cumulative effect of applying the standard would be recognized at the earliest period showing, or the modified retrospective method, in which case the cumulative effect of applying the standard would be recognized as of the date of initial application.
See Note 2, Revenue Recognition, in these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the details of the Company’s revenue recognition policies.
The adoption of ASU 2014-09 impacted the Company’s condensed consolidated statements of income and balance sheets but did not impact its condensed consolidated statements of cash flows, with the exceptions of net income and reclassifications within adjustments to reconcile net income to cash provided by operations, and did not impact the condensed consolidated statement of shareholders' equity, with the exceptions of retained earnings and net income.
These measures are used to measure results directly and is generally the best measure of progress toward completion in circumstances in which a reliable measure of output can be established.
Estimated revenue in excess of amounts billed is reported as unbilled receivables.
Contract accounting requires judgment in estimating costs and assumptions related to technical issues and delivery schedule.
Contract costs include material, subcontract costs, labor and an allocation of indirect costs.
During the three- and nine-month periods ended August 3, 2019, the total intrinsic value of options exercised (i.e., the difference between the market price at exercise and the price paid by the employee to exercise the options) was $21.0 million and $120.7 million, respectively, and the total amount of proceeds received by the Company from the exercise of these options was $19.2 million and $106.1 million, respectively.
As of August 3, 2019, an additional $2.2 billion remains available for repurchase of shares under the current authorized program.
The following table provides the changes in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (OCI) by component and the related tax effects during the first nine months of fiscal 2019.
These unrealized losses were primarily related to corporate obligations that earn lower interest rates than current market rates.


item2.txt
We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements, including to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of the filing of this report, except to the extent required by law.
Therefore, the first nine months of fiscal 2019 included one less week of operations as compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
The categorization of revenue by end market is determined using a variety of data points including the technical characteristics of the product, the “sold to” customer information, the “ship to” customer information and the end customer product or application into which our product will be incorporated.
Such reclassifications typically do not materially change the sizing of, or the underlying trends of results within, each end market.
Consumer end market revenues decreased in the three-month period ended August 3, 2019, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, primarily as a result of decreased demand for products used in portable consumer applications.


item3.txt



part2.txt
The description below includes any material changes to and supersedes the description of the risk factors affecting our business previously discussed in "Risk Factors” set forth in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 3, 2018.
In addition, financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers, distributors or customers could result in product delays, increased accounts receivable defaults and inventory challenges.
•trade policy, trade, travel, export or taxation disputes or restrictions, government sanctions, import or export tariffs, changes to export classifications or other restrictions imposed by the U.S. government or by the governments of the countries in which we do business, particularly in China; •costs associated with our foreign defined benefit pension plans.
At August 3, 2019, our principal source of liquidity was $612.2 million of cash and cash equivalents, of which approximately $262.6 million was held in the United States and the remaining balance was held outside the United States in various foreign subsidiaries.
We continue to assert our intent to reinvest substantially all of our foreign earnings indefinitely.
We require a substantial amount of cash in the United States for operating requirements, stock repurchases, cash dividends and acquisitions.
Changes in these laws and regulations, including those that align to or are associated with the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development's Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) Actions Plans, could impact the jurisdictions where we are deemed to earn income, which could in turn adversely affect our tax liability and results of operations.
We primarily rely on patent, mask work, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies and processes.


