fls.txt



item1.txt
In the opinion of management, the information furnished in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements reflects all normal recurring adjustments that are necessary to fairly state the results for these interim periods and should be read in conjunction with Analog Devices, Inc.’s (the Company) Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 3, 2018 (fiscal 2018) and related notes.
The Company has a 52-53 week fiscal year that ends on the Saturday closest to the last day in October.
Fiscal 2019 is a 52-week fiscal year and fiscal 2018 was a 53-week fiscal year.
Therefore, the first six months of fiscal 2019 included one less week of operations as compared to the first six months of fiscal 2018.
Certain amounts reported in previous periods have been reclassified to conform to the fiscal 2019 presentation.
The two permitted transition methods under the new standard are the full retrospective method, in which case the standard would be applied to each prior reporting period presented and the cumulative effect of applying the standard would be recognized at the earliest period showing, or the modified retrospective method, in which case the cumulative effect of applying the standard would be recognized as of the date of initial application.
See Note 2, Revenue Recognition, in these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the details of the Company’s revenue recognition policies.
These measures are used to measure results directly and is generally the best measure of progress toward completion in circumstances in which a reliable measure of output can be established.
Estimated revenue in excess of amounts billed is reported as unbilled receivables.
Contract accounting requires judgment in estimating costs and assumptions related to technical issues and delivery schedule.
Contract costs include material, subcontract costs, labor and an allocation of indirect costs.
During the three- and six-month periods ended May 4, 2019, the total intrinsic value of options exercised (i.e., the difference between the market price at exercise and the price paid by the employee to exercise the options) was $72.6 million and $99.7 million, respectively, and the total amount of proceeds received by the Company from the exercise of these options was $67.7 million and $86.9 million, respectively.
As of May 4, 2019, the Company had repurchased a total of approximately 152.0 million shares of its common stock for approximately $5.8 billion under the Company's share repurchase program.
The Company estimates $2.3 million, net of tax, of losses of forward foreign currency derivative instruments included in OCI will be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months.
As of November 3, 2018, the Company held 15 investment securities, 15 of which were in an unrealized loss position with immaterial gross unrealized losses and an aggregate fair value of $205.0 million.
These unrealized losses were primarily related to corporate obligations that earn lower interest rates than current market rates.


item2.txt
We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements, including to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of the filing of this report, except to the extent required by law.
The categorization of revenue by end market is determined using a variety of data points including the technical characteristics of the product, the “sold to” customer information, the “ship to” customer information and the end customer product or application into which our product will be incorporated.
As data systems for capturing and tracking this data evolve and improve, the categorization of products by end market can vary over time.
Such reclassifications typically do not materially change the sizing of, or the underlying trends of results within, each end market.
Consumer end market revenues decreased in the three-month period ended May 4, 2019, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year as a result of decreased demand for products used in portable consumer applications.


item3.txt



part2.txt
The description below includes any material changes to and supersedes the description of the risk factors affecting our business previously discussed in "Risk Factors” set forth in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 3, 2018.
Financial difficulties experienced by our customers could result in nonpayment or payment delays for previously purchased products, thereby increasing our credit risk exposure.
We primarily rely on patent, mask work, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies and processes.
As such, any rights granted under these patents may not provide us with adequate protection.
We may not be able to obtain foreign patents or pending applications corresponding to our U.S. patents and applications.
We also try to control access to and distribution of our technologies, documentation and other proprietary information.
Despite these efforts, internal or external parties may attempt to copy, disclose, obtain or use our products or technology without our authorization.
Also, former employees may seek employment with our business partners, customers or competitors, and there can be no assurance that the confidential nature of our proprietary information will be maintained in the course of such future employment.


