item1.txt
The adoption of this standard and the costs capitalized for the nine months ended March 29, 2019 were not material to the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Adoption of the standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s financial position, results of operations, and cash flows, as of or for the three and nine months ended March 29, 2019, and the Company expects that the impact of the adoption of the new standard will not be material to its results of operations prospectively.
Changes in the contract liability balance during the nine months ended March 29, 2019 include $93 million of revenue recognized during the period of which the substantial majority relates to the balance that was deferred at June 29, 2018, partially offset by payments received and billings in advance of satisfying performance obligations.
If there are significant decreases in the Company’s stock price in the future or other unfavorable factors, the Company may be required to perform a goodwill impairment assessment, which may result in the recognition of a goodwill impairment that could be material to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
For each of the three and nine months ended March 29, 2019 and March 30, 2018, total net realized and unrealized transaction and foreign exchange contract currency gains and losses were not material to the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
In April 2019, the Company amended the Credit Agreement for the purposes of providing additional flexibility by adjusting the leverage ratio maintenance covenant levels applicable to the term A loan and revolving facilities thereunder and amending the definition of Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA under the financial maintenance covenants to include an addback for certain depreciation related payments with respect to the Company’s Flash Ventures.
The Credit Agreement also requires the Company and its subsidiaries to comply with customary covenants that include, among others, limitations on the incurrence of additional debt, liens on property, acquisitions and investments, loans and guarantees, mergers, consolidations, liquidations and dissolutions, asset sales, dividends and other payments in respect of the Company’s capital stock, prepayments of certain debt, transactions with affiliates and certain modifications of organizational documents and certain debt agreements.
The Company’s maximum reasonably estimable loss exposure (excluding lost profits) as a result of its involvement with Flash Ventures, based upon the Japanese yen to U.S. dollar exchange rate at March 29, 2019, is presented below.
In addition to containing customary events of default related to Flash Ventures that could result in an acceleration of Flash Ventures’ obligations, the lease agreements contain acceleration clauses for certain events of default related to the guarantors, including the Company.
The Company and TMC have agreed to mutually contribute to, and indemnify each other and Flash Ventures for, environmental remediation costs or liability resulting from Flash Ventures’ manufacturing operations in certain circumstances.
For the three and nine months ended March 29, 2019 and March 30, 2018, the Company recognized less than 1% of its consolidated revenue on products distributed by the Unis Venture.
When initially accounting for the tax effects of the enactment of the 2017 Act, the Company applied the applicable SEC guidance and made a reasonable estimate of the effects on the Company’s existing deferred tax balances and the one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax required by the 2017 Act. As the Company finalized the accounting for the tax effects of the enactment of the 2017 Act during the one-year measurement period permitted by applicable SEC guidance, the Company reflected adjustments to the recorded provisional amounts.
During the second quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company completed its accounting for the tax effects of the enactment of the 2017 Act. Although the U.S. Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) have issued tax guidance on certain provisions of the 2017 Act since the enactment date, the Company anticipates the issuance of additional regulatory and interpretive guidance.
The Company recorded a provisional income tax benefit of $65 million for the year ended June 29, 2018, which related to the re-measurements of the Company’s deferred tax balances and is based primarily on the rates at which the deferred tax assets and liabilities are expected to reverse in the current and future fiscal years, which are generally 29% and 22%, respectively.
During the three months ended March 29, 2019, the Company finalized the filing of its U.S. federal income tax return for the year ended June 29, 2018, which resulted in an additional income tax benefit of $5 million for the re-measurement of the Company’s deferred tax assets and liabilities that are expected to reverse at 22%.
The $52 million benefit resulted from utilizing the existing fiscal year 2019 operating losses at a 28% tax rate on the Company’s 2018 tax return as compared to the carryforward tax rate of 21%.
During the three months ended March 29, 2019, the Company finalized the filing of its U.S. federal income tax return for the year ended June 29, 2018, which resulted in a decrease to its mandatory repatriation tax liability by $105 million, of which $41 million related to the utilization of recorded deferred tax assets related to existing tax attributes.
The utilization of the deferred tax assets resulted in an income tax benefit of $19 million for the three months ended March 29, 2019 with the remaining amount being a reclassification that did not have an impact on the Company’s income tax provision.
This required the Company to re-evaluate its existing short and long-term capital allocation policies in light of the 2017 Act and calculate the tax cost that is incremental to the deemed repatriation tax of repatriating cash to the U.S. The provisional tax expense recorded by the Company as of June 28, 2018 was based upon an assumption that all of its foreign undistributed earnings are indefinitely reinvested.
For the nine months ended March 29, 2019, these discrete effects consist of $107 million related to the mandatory deemed repatriation tax and $152 million related to the Company’s decision to change its indefinite reinvestment assertion.
The primary drivers for the difference between the effective tax rate for the three months ended March 30, 2018 and the U.S. Federal statutory rate of 28% included discrete effects consisting of an income tax benefit of $211 million from deductible make-whole premiums and the write-off of unamortized issuance costs from the Company’s debt financing transactions.
The primary drivers for the difference between the effective tax rate for the nine months ended March 30, 2018 and the U.S. Federal statutory rate of 28% were related to the net charge of $1.66 billion for the one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax, offset in part by an income tax benefit related to the re-measurement of deferred taxes as required by the 2017 Act and deductible make-whole premiums and the write-off of unamortized issuance costs from the Company’s debt financing transactions.
The primary drivers for the remaining difference between the effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018 and the U.S. Federal statutory rate of 28% were tax credits and tax holidays in Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore and Thailand that expired or expire at various dates during fiscal years 2018 through 2030 and net windfall tax benefits related to vesting and exercises of stock-based awards of $46 million and $73 million for the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018, respectively.
During the nine months ended March 29, 2019, the Company recorded an increase of $157 million in its liability for unrecognized tax benefits (excluding accrued interest and penalties).
On June 28, 2018, the IRS issued a statutory notice of deficiency with respect to the disputed matters for fiscal years 2008 through 2009, seeking to increase the Company’s U.S. taxable income by an amount that would result in additional federal tax through fiscal year 2009 totaling approximately $516 million, subject to interest.
On December 10, 2018, the IRS issued a statutory notice of deficiency with respect to fiscal years 2010 through 2012, seeking to increase the Company’s U.S. taxable income by an amount that would result in additional federal tax for fiscal years 2010 through 2012 totaling approximately $549 million, subject to interest.
Approximately $535 million of the total additional federal tax for fiscal years 2010 through 2012 relates to proposed adjustments for transfer pricing with the Company’s foreign subsidiaries, intercompany payable balances and the utilization of certain tax attributes.
For the three months ended March 30, 2018, the Company excluded 2 million common shares subject to outstanding equity awards from the calculation of diluted shares because their impact would have been anti-dilutive based on the Company’s average stock price during the period.
During the nine months ended March 29, 2019, the Company recognized an additional $7 million in employee termination benefits and $9 million in asset-related, contract termination and other charges.
Although the ultimate aggregate amount of probable monetary liability or financial impact with respect to these other matters is subject to many uncertainties, management believes that any monetary liability or financial impact to the Company from these other matters, individually and in the aggregate, would not be material to the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
We rely substantially on our business ventures with Toshiba Memory Corporation (“TMC”) for the supply of flash-based memory and the development of flash-based technology, which subjects us to risks and uncertainties that could harm our business, financial condition and operating results.
We are dependent on our ventures with TMC to develop and manufacture flash-based memory products for our flash-based memory supply, and therefore our business, financial condition and operating results are dependent on the continued success of Flash Ventures.
If we are unable to effectively compete with any manufacturers located in China or non-Chinese competitors benefitting from alliances with Chinese companies in the markets where we compete, our operating results and financial condition will suffer.
If our HDD technology transitions, including the production ramp of MAMR HDDs, take longer or are more costly to complete than anticipated or if we otherwise fail to implement new HDD technologies successfully, we may not remain competitive with other HDD producers, which could adversely affect our revenues, gross margin and operating results.
Because we are dependent on a limited number of qualified suppliers, a disruption in our supply chain, including a shortage in supply or a supplier’s failure to support us in a timely manner with goods or services at a quality level and cost acceptable to us, or supplier consolidation, could adversely affect our margins, revenues and operating results.
Delays or cost increases experienced by our suppliers in developing or sourcing materials and components for use in our products or incompatibility or quality issues relating to our products, could also harm our financial results as well as business relationships with our customers.
See the risk factors entitled “We rely substantially on our business ventures with Toshiba Memory Corporation (“TMC”) for the supply of flash-based memory and the development of flash-based technology, which subjects us to risks and uncertainties that could harm our business, financial condition and operating results” and “Our strategic relationships subject us to risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations” for additional risks related to our supply of flash memory and our strategic relationships.
Increases in the cost for certain critical materials and components and oil may increase our costs of manufacturing and transporting our products and key components and may result in lower operating margins if we are unable to pass these increased costs on to our customers.
Additionally, because a substantial portion of our key employees’ compensation is placed “at risk” and linked to the performance of our business, when our operating results are negatively impacted, we may be at a competitive disadvantage for retaining and hiring key management, staff and skilled employees versus other companies that may pay a relatively higher portion of fixed salary.
A fire, flood, earthquake, tsunami or other natural disaster, condition or event such as a power outage, political instability, civil unrest, localized labor unrest or other employment issues, or a localized health risk that adversely affects any of these facilities or the employees or logistics operators at these facilities, would significantly affect our ability to manufacture or sell our products, which would result in a substantial loss of sales and revenue and a substantial harm to our operating results.
A significant event that impacts any of our manufacturing sites, or the sites of our customers or suppliers, could adversely affect our ability to manufacture or sell our products, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer.
Such tariffs, policy or regulatory changes, international trade agreements or trade restrictions have in the past adversely affected and may in the future adversely affect our ability to sell to certain customers or could increase our cost of doing business, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.
Furthermore, we may agree to provide continuing service obligations or enter into other agreements in order to obtain certain regulatory approvals of our corporate transactions, and failure to satisfy these additional obligations could result in our failing to obtain regulatory approvals or the imposition of additional obligations on us, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
If we lose a key customer, if our sales to a key customer are prohibited by law, regulation or other government action, if any of our key customers reduce their orders of our products or require us to reduce our prices before we are able to reduce costs, if a customer is acquired by one of our competitors or if a key customer suffers financial hardship, our operating results and financial condition would likely be harmed.
If we or our suppliers or partners fail to timely comply with applicable legislation, our customers may refuse to purchase our products or we may face increased operating costs as a result of taxes, fines or penalties, or legal liability and reputational damage, which would have a materially adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.
If our forecasts exceed actual market demand, then we could experience periods of product oversupply, excess inventory, and price decreases, which could impact our sales, ASPs and gross margin, thereby adversely affecting our operating results and our financial condition.
If the Japanese yen appreciates against the U.S. dollar, our cost of purchasing flash-based memory wafers and the cost to us of future capital funding of Flash Ventures would increase, which could negatively impact our operating results.
If global credit and equity markets experience prolonged periods of decline, or if there is a downgrade of the U.S. government credit rating due to an actual or threatened default on government debt, our investment portfolio may be adversely impacted and we could determine that our investments may experience an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring impairment charges that could adversely affect our financial results.
In addition, if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to repay our indebtedness, fund acquisitions, pay dividends, or repurchase shares of our common stock, we may choose or be required to increase our borrowings, if available, or to repatriate funds to the U.S. at an additional tax cost.


item2.txt
The decrease in net revenue in the three months ended March 29, 2019 from the comparable period of the prior year was primarily driven by lower average selling prices per gigabyte for flash-based products and lower sales of HDD products.
The decrease in net revenue for the nine months ended March 29, 2019, compared to the same period in the prior year, is primarily due to lower average selling prices per gigabyte for flash-based products and lower sales of HDD products.
Specifically, Client Devices revenue for the nine months ended March 29, 2019 decreased 15.0% year over year, primarily driven by lower sales of client compute HDD products and flash-based mobile products and lower average selling prices per gigabyte of flash-based products, partially offset by higher sales of client SSD.
Our revenue for Data Center Devices and Solutions for the nine months ended March 29, 2019 decreased 15.6% year over year, driven primarily by lower sales of our enterprise SSDs and performance enterprise HDDs. Client Solutions revenue for the nine months ended March 29, 2019 decreased 21.9% year over year, primarily driven by lower sales of retail HDD and lower average selling prices per gigabyte of flash-based products.
The decreases in gross profit for the three and nine months ended March 29, 2019 from the comparable periods in the prior year were primarily due to the lower average selling prices per gigabyte for flash-based products, the flash manufacturing underutilization charges and a charge to cost of revenue of $110 million (3.0% and 0.9% of revenue for the three and nine months ended March 29, 2019, respectively) primarily to reduce component inventory to net realizable value for flash-based multi-chip package products that include externally-sourced dynamic random access memory products.
Gross profit and gross margin also include amortization expense on acquired intangible assets, stock-based compensation, a flash manufacturing underutilization charge, and charges related to the implementation of cost-saving initiatives and other charges, which aggregated $349 million, or 9.5%, of revenue, compared to $247 million, or 4.9%, of revenue, for the three months ended March 29, 2019 and March 30, 2018, respectively, and $879 million, or 6.8%, of revenue, compared to $819 million, or 5.3%, of revenue, for the nine months ended March 29, 2019 and March 30, 2018, respectively.
The primary drivers for the difference between the effective tax rate for the nine months ended March 30, 2018 and the U.S. Federal statutory rate of 28% were related to the net charge of $1.66 billion for the one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax, offset in part by an income tax benefit related to the re-measurement of deferred taxes as required by the 2017 Act and deductible make-whole premiums and the write-off of unamortized issuance costs from our debt financing transactions.
Additional information regarding our indebtedness, including information about availability under our revolving credit facility and the principal repayment terms, interest rates, covenants and other key terms of our outstanding indebtedness, is included in Part I, Item 1, Note 7, Debt, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and Part II, Item 8, Note 6, Debt, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the year ended June 29, 2018.
For additional information regarding our estimate of the total tax liability for the mandatory deemed repatriation tax, see Part I, Item 1, Note 11, Income Tax Expense (Benefit), of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.


item4.txt
As we implement the remaining functionality under this ERP system over the next several years, we will continue to assess the impact on our internal control over financial reporting.


part2.txt
We rely substantially on our business ventures with Toshiba Memory Corporation (“TMC”) for the supply of flash-based memory and the development of flash-based technology, which subjects us to risks and uncertainties that could harm our business, financial condition and operating results.
We are dependent on our ventures with TMC to develop and manufacture flash-based memory products for our flash-based memory supply, and therefore our business, financial condition and operating results are dependent on the continued success of Flash Ventures.
If we fail to implement new technologies successfully, or if we are slower than our competitors at implementing new technologies, we may not be able to competitively offer products that our customers desire or keep pace with ASP reduction, which could harm our operating results.
If our technology transitions, including the production ramp of 3D NAND technology, take longer, are more costly to complete than anticipated, or do not improve manufacturing yield or other manufacturing efficiencies, our flash memory costs may not remain competitive with other flash-based memory producers or may not fall commensurate with declines in the price of flash-based memory, which would harm revenues, our gross margin and operating results.
For additional technology transition risks related to 3D NAND, see the risk factors entitled “We rely substantially on our business ventures with Toshiba Memory Corporation (“TMC”) for the supply of flash-based memory and the development of flash-based technology, which subjects us to risks and uncertainties that could harm our business, financial condition and operating results” and “Our strategic relationships subject us to risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.”
If our HDD technology transitions, including the production ramp of MAMR HDDs, take longer or are more costly to complete than anticipated or if we otherwise fail to implement new HDD technologies successfully, we may not remain competitive with other HDD producers, which could adversely affect our revenues, gross margin and operating results.
Because we are dependent on a limited number of qualified suppliers, a disruption in our supply chain, including a shortage in supply or a supplier’s failure to support us in a timely manner with goods or services at a quality level and cost acceptable to us, or supplier consolidation, could adversely affect our margins, revenues and operating results.
Delays or cost increases experienced by our suppliers in developing or sourcing materials and components for use in our products or incompatibility or quality issues relating to our products, could also harm our financial results as well as business relationships with our customers.
Any significant problems that occur at our suppliers, or their failure to perform at the level we expect, could lead to product shortages or quality assurance problems, either of which would harm our operating results and financial condition.
See the risk factors entitled “We rely substantially on our business ventures with Toshiba Memory Corporation (“TMC”) for the supply of flash-based memory and the development of flash-based technology, which subjects us to risks and uncertainties that could harm our business, financial condition and operating results” and “Our strategic relationships subject us to risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations” for additional risks related to our supply of flash memory and our strategic relationships.
Price volatility, shortages of critical materials or components, or use by other industries of materials and components used in the storage industry, or contractual commitments we enter into with suppliers to reduce the risk of component shortages, could increase our costs and may negatively impact our operating results.
Increases in the cost for certain critical materials and components and oil may increase our costs of manufacturing and transporting our products and key components and may result in lower operating margins if we are unable to pass these increased costs on to our customers.
In addition, shortages in other components and materials used in our customers’ products could result in a decrease in demand for our products, which would negatively impact our operating results.
Some of these commitments may require us to buy a substantial number of components from the supplier or make significant cash advances to the supplier; however, these commitments may not result in a satisfactory increase or stabilization of the supply of such components and may cause us to have inadequate or excess component inventory, which could increase our operating costs and adversely affect our operating results.
A fire, flood, earthquake, tsunami or other natural disaster, condition or event such as a power outage, political instability, civil unrest, localized labor unrest or other employment issues, or a localized health risk that adversely affects any of these facilities or the employees or logistics operators at these facilities, would significantly affect our ability to manufacture or sell our products, which would result in a substantial loss of sales and revenue and a substantial harm to our operating results.
A significant event that impacts any of our manufacturing sites, or the sites of our customers or suppliers, could adversely affect our ability to manufacture or sell our products, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer.
Such tariffs, policy or regulatory changes, international trade agreements or trade restrictions have in the past adversely affected and may in the future adversely affect our ability to sell to certain customers or could increase our cost of doing business, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.
In addition, failing to achieve the financial model projections for an acquisition or changes in technology development and related roadmaps following an acquisition may result in the incurrence of impairment charges and other expenses, both of which could adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition.
Furthermore, we may agree to provide continuing service obligations or enter into other agreements in order to obtain certain regulatory approvals of our corporate transactions, and failure to satisfy these additional obligations could result in our failing to obtain regulatory approvals or the imposition of additional obligations on us, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
If our technology infrastructure, systems or products are compromised, damaged or interrupted by cyber attacks, data security breaches, other security problems, security vulnerabilities or design defects, or sustain system failures, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected.
Additionally, if the distribution market weakens as a result of a slowing PC growth rate, technology transitions or a significant change in consumer buying preference, or if we experience significant price declines due to demand changes in the distribution channel, then our operating results would be adversely affected.
If customers no longer maintain a preference for our product brands or if our retailers are not successful in selling our products, our operating results may be adversely affected.
If we lose a key customer, if our sales to a key customer are prohibited by law, regulation or other government action, if any of our key customers reduce their orders of our products or require us to reduce our prices before we are able to reduce costs, if a customer is acquired by one of our competitors or if a key customer suffers financial hardship, our operating results and financial condition would likely be harmed.
Consolidation among our customer base may also lead to reduced demand for our products, increased customer pressure on our prices, replacement of our products by the combined entity with those of our competitors and cancellations of orders, each of which could harm our operating results.
If we or our suppliers or partners fail to timely comply with applicable legislation, our customers may refuse to purchase our products or we may face increased operating costs as a result of taxes, fines or penalties, or legal liability and reputational damage, which would have a materially adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.
Accurately forecasting demand has become increasingly difficult for us, our customers and our suppliers in light of the volatility in global economic conditions and industry consolidation, resulting in less availability of historical market data for certain product segments.
If our forecasts exceed actual market demand, then we could experience periods of product oversupply, excess inventory, and price decreases, which could impact our sales, ASPs and gross margin, thereby adversely affecting our operating results and our financial condition.
If market demand increases significantly beyond our forecasts or beyond our ability to add manufacturing capacity, then we may not be able to satisfy customer product needs, possibly resulting in a loss of market share if our competitors are able to meet customer demands.
If the Japanese yen appreciates against the U.S. dollar, our cost of purchasing flash-based memory wafers and the cost to us of future capital funding of Flash Ventures would increase, which could negatively impact our operating results.
Any credit losses we may suffer as a result of these increased risks, or as a result of credit losses from any significant customer, especially in situations where there are term extensions under existing contracts with such customers, would increase our operating costs, which may negatively impact our operating results.


