The financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements filed with the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
The Company reports interim financial information for 13-week periods beginning on a Sunday and ending on a Saturday, except for the first fiscal quarter, which always begins on January 1, and the fourth fiscal quarter, which always ends on December 31.
The ASU is the result of a convergence project between the FASB and the International Accounting Standards Board to clarify the principles for recognizing revenue and to develop a common revenue standard for GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards.
The ASU removes inconsistencies and weaknesses in revenue requirements; provides a more robust framework for addressing revenue issues; improves comparability of revenue recognition practices across entities, industries, jurisdictions, and capital markets; provides more useful information to users of financial statements through expanded disclosure requirements; and simplifies the preparation of financial statements by reducing the number of requirements to which an entity must refer.
Upon adoption of the ASU, the Company will recognize lease assets and liabilities for its operating leases which are not currently reported on its consolidated balance sheets.
Except for the changes described in "Recently Adopted Accounting Guidance" above and in this section below, the Company has consistently applied the accounting policies described in its Note 1 to its audited consolidated financial statement included in its annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, to all periods presented in these consolidated condensed financial statements.In December 2015, we amended our credit facility to increase our ability to repurchase shares of stock or pay cash dividends.
We used the net proceeds from the issuance of these notes to repurchase $220.0 million and $69.1 million principal amount of convertible senior debentures due 2040 and due 2042, respectively.
As part of the amendment and restatement of the revolving credit facility in December 2015, we completed an evaluation of our anticipated domestic cash needs over the next several years and our most efficient use of liquidity, with consideration of the amount of cash that can be repatriated to the U.S. efficiently with lesser withholding taxes in foreign jurisdictions.
As a result of the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("TCJA") in December 2017, we terminated the aforementioned cash repatriation plan and replaced it with a plan to repatriate approximately $1.1 billion of unremitted foreign earnings in Israel, Germany, Austria, and France in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2017.
As a result of additional analysis completed in the second fiscal quarter of 2018, we adjusted the amount of foreign unremitted earnings available from Israel, Germany, Austria, and France to approximately $1.2 billion and accrued additional provisional tax expense.
Substantially all of these amounts were used to reduce the outstanding balance of the credit facility and to repay certain intercompany indebtedness.
The provisional tax expense recorded in the fourth quarter of 2017 related to the enactment of the TCJA included these amounts paid in the second fiscal quarter of 2018.
Additionally, we continue to closely monitor our costs, inventory, and capital resources to respond to changing conditions and to ensure we have the management, business processes, and resources to meet our future needs.
Our cost reduction programs are more fully described in Note 4 to the consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1, and in "Cost Management" below.
See additional information regarding our competitive strengths and key challenges as disclosed in Part 1 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on February 16, 2018.Part II, Item 7A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk," of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on February 16, 2018, describes our exposure to market risks.Item 3 of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on February 16, 2018 and Item 1 of Part II of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on May 8, 2018 describe certain of our legal proceedings.