We can give no assurance that any future results or events discussed in these statements will be achieved.The acquisition expands our video security solutions platform.
This acquisition expands our commercial portfolio with new capabilities, allowing us to offer an enhanced platform for customers to communicate, coordinate resources, and secure their facilities.
On January 7, 2019, we announced that we acquired VaaS International Holdings ("VaaS"), a company that is a global provider of data and image analytics for vehicle location for $445 million, inclusive of share-based compensation withheld at a fair value of $38 million that will be expensed over an average service period of one year.
On March 7, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Plant Holdings, Inc. ("Plant"), the parent company of Airbus DS Communications for a purchase price of $237 million in cash, net of cash acquired.
This acquisition expanded our software portfolio in the command center with additional solutions for Next Generation 9-1-1.
We are a leading global provider of mission-critical communications.
Our technology platforms in communications, software, video security, and services make cities safer and help communities and businesses thrive.
•3% growth in Services, driven by growth in maintenance revenue, partially offset by unfavorable currency headwinds.
•higher margins within the Services and Software segment primarily driven by operational efficiencies in service delivery costs of our Services portfolio and higher margin contribution within our Software portfolio from acquisitions.
The reduction of Other charges in the second quarter of 2019 as compared to the second quarter of 2018 is due to $8 million of net reorganization of business charges in the second quarter of 2019 as compared to $18 million in the second quarter of 2018, (see further detail in “Reorganization of Businesses” section).
Our effective tax rate for the three months ended June 29, 2019 of 24% is higher than the effective tax rate for the three months ended June 30, 2018 of 20%, primarily due to a favorable settlement of a state audit in 2018.
The Services and Software segment’s net sales represented 34% of our consolidated net sales in the first half of 2019 and 2018.
The net gains in the first half of 2019 were related to the sale of our two-way communications rental business and various equity method investments.Management believes that these financial instruments should not subject us to undue risk due to foreign exchange movements because gains and losses on these contracts should generally offset gains and losses on the underlying assets, liabilities and transactions.Item 5.Item 1A.
On January 3, 2019, as partial consideration for the acquisition of VaaS International Holdings ("VaaS"), a company that is a global provider of data and image analytics for vehicle location, we issued 1,802,379 shares of the Company at a fair value of $198 million, inclusive of $38 million related to compensation withheld from the purchase that will be expensed over an average service period of one year, to certain of the former owners of VaaS.