The Company is a defendant in various lawsuits, claims, and actions, which arise in the normal course of business.We are a leading global provider of mission-critical communication infrastructure, devices, accessories, software, and services.
Our products and services help government, public safety and commercial customers improve their operations through increased effectiveness, efficiency, and safety of their mobile workforces.
The net sales increase for the second quarter of 2018 included $154 million from acquisitions, $26 million from favorable foreign currency rates and $24 million from the adoption of ASC 606.
Systems and Systems Integration net sales within the Products and Systems Integration segment increased in every region.
The Services and Software segment net sales increased in every region.
We recorded net charges of $71 million in the second quarter of 2018, compared to net charges of $37 million in the second quarter of 2017.
The net reorganization of business charges are discussed in further detail in the Reorganization of Businesses section.
Net sales were $3.2 billion in the first half of 2018, a $450 million, or 16%, increase compared to the first half of 2017.
The increase in gross margin percentage was primarily driven by favorable mix, the adoption of ASC 606, and improved margins in Services.
million of net periodic postretirement benefit, (ii) a $11 million gain on derivative instruments, and (iii) $3 million of other non-operating gains.
Net Earnings Attributable to Motorola Solutions, Inc. After taxes, we had net earnings attributable to Motorola Solutions, Inc. of $297 million, or $1.73 per diluted share, in the first half of 2018, compared to net earnings attributable to Motorola Solutions, Inc. of $208 million, or $1.23 per diluted share, in the first half of 2017.
Systems and Systems Integration net sales increased in EMEA and AP due to the acquisition of Avigilon.
For second quarter of 2018, the segment’s net sales represented 32% of our consolidated net sales, compared to 30% of our consolidated net sales for the second quarter of 2017.Management believes that these financial instruments should not subject us to undue risk due to foreign exchange movements because gains and losses on these contracts should generally offset gains and losses on the underlying assets, liabilities and transactions.We have made appropriate changes to our internal controls over financial reporting as we have implemented the new system.The Company is a defendant in various lawsuits, claims, and actions, which arise in the normal course of business.
Item 1A.