fls.txt
Any forward-looking statements represent our views only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date.
Motorola Solutions undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement or risk factor, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.


item1.txt
The Company is a defendant in various lawsuits, claims, and actions, which arise in the normal course of business.


item2.txt
This acquisition expands our commercial portfolio with new capabilities, allowing us to offer an enhanced platform for customers to communicate, coordinate resources, and secure their facilities.
The business will be part of both the Products and Systems Integration and Services and Software segments.
On January 7, 2019, we announced that we acquired VaaS International Holdings ("VaaS"), a company that is a global provider of data and image analytics for vehicle location for $445 million, inclusive of share-based compensation withheld at a fair value of $38 million that will be expensed over an average service period of one year.
This acquisition expands our command center software portfolio under the Services and Software segment.
On March 28, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Avigilon Corporation ("Avigilon"), a provider of advanced security and video solutions including video analytics, network video management hardware and software, video cameras and access control solutions for a purchase price of $974 million in cash.
Our technology platforms in communications, software, video, and services make cities safer and help communities and businesses thrive.
We are ushering in a new era in public safety and security.
•94% growth in Software, driven primarily by revenue from the acquisitions of VaaS, Avigilon, and Plant, and growth in our command center software suite.
Cash payments for employee severance in connection with the reorganization of business plans were $14 million in the first quarter of 2019 and employee severance and exit costs were $15 million in the first quarter of 2018.
As of January 1, 2019, accruals for exit costs are included in Operating lease liabilities with an offsetting impairment to our right-of use assets ("ROU"), all within our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (see Note 3 of our condensed consolidated financial statements).
Restricted cash was $11 million at March 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018.
Servicing obligations are limited to collection activities related to the sales of accounts receivables and long-term receivables.
To complete the acquisition of Avigilon during the quarter ended March 31, 2018, we entered into a term loan for $400 million with a maturity date of March 26, 2021 (the "Term Loan").
No additional borrowings are permitted and amounts borrowed and repaid or prepaid may not be re-borrowed.
In February of 2018, we issued $500 million of 4.60% Senior notes due 2028.
After debt issuance costs and debt discounts, we recognized net proceeds of $497 million.
As of March 30, 2019, we had $800 million of 2.0% Senior Convertible Notes outstanding with Silver Lake Partners which mature in September 2020 and are fully convertible.
The notes are convertible based on a conversion rate of 14.8968, as may be adjusted for dividends declared, per $1,000 principal amount (which is currently equal to a published conversion price of $67.13 per share).
Borrowings under the facility bear interest at the prime rate plus the applicable margin, or at a spread above LIBOR, at our option.


item3.txt
Management believes that these financial instruments should not subject us to undue risk due to foreign exchange movements because gains and losses on these contracts should generally offset gains and losses on the underlying assets, liabilities and transactions.
Any forward-looking statements represent our views only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date.


item4.txt
Item 5.
Other Information.


part2.txt
Item 1A.
On January 3, 2019, as partial consideration for the acquisition of VaaS International Holdings ("VaaS"), a company that is a global provider of data and image analytics for vehicle location, we issued 1,802,379 shares of the Company at a fair value of $198 million, inclusive of $38 million related to compensation withheld from the purchase that will be expensed over an average service period of one year, to certain of the former owners of VaaS.
These shares were issued in reliance upon the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, in a privately negotiated transaction not involving any public offering or solicitation.
Mine Safety Disclosures.


