Item 3.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Our earnings and cash flows are subject to fluctuations due to changes in interest rates primarily from borrowings under our Credit Facility.
Based on the amount of outstanding debt under our Credit Facility, a hypothetical change in interest rates by 10% would change interest expense by $0.8 million over a one-year period.
Although we do not currently use interest rate derivative instruments to manage exposure to interest rate changes, we may choose to do so in the future in connection with our Credit Facility.
Our earnings and cash flows are also subject to fluctuations due to changes in interest rates on our investment of available cash balances.
As of January 31, 2019, we had cash and cash equivalents of $46.0 million, which consisted of cash and highly-liquid money market deposit accounts.
Many of these investments are subject to fluctuations in interest rates, which could impact our results.
Based on our investment portfolio balance as of January 31, 2019, a hypothetical change in interest rates of 10% would have a nominal impact on interest income over a one-year period.
Ultimately, the availability of our cash and cash equivalents is dependent on a well-functioning liquid market.
Index

Item 4.
Controls and Procedures

As of the end of the period covered by this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934), was carried out by us under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman and Chief Financial Officer.
Based on that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by the report to provide reasonable assurance that the information required to be disclosed by us in reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms and is accumulated and communicated to management, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
A system of controls, no matter how well designed and operated, cannot provide absolute assurance that the objectives of the system of controls are met, and no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within a company have been detected.
There have been no changes in our internal controls over financial reporting during the most recent fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal controls over financial reporting.
The certifications of our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman and Chief Financial Officer, that are Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2, respectively, should be read in conjunction with the foregoing information for a more complete understanding of the references in those Exhibits to disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting.
Legal Proceedings

See "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (19) - Legal Proceedings and Other Matters," of this Form 10-Q for information regarding legal proceedings and other matters.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors 

There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2018.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds

None.
