ITEM 2.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Certain information in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements, including but not limited to, information relating to our future performance and financial condition, plans and objectives of our management and our assumptions regarding such future performance, financial condition, and plans and objectives that involve certain significant known and unknown risks and uncertainties and other factors not under our control which may cause our actual results, future performance and financial condition, and achievement of our plans and objectives to be materially different from the results, performance or other expectations implied by these forward-looking statements.
These factors include, among other things: the risk that Comtech will be unsuccessful in implementing a tactical shift in its Government Solutions segment away from bidding on large commodity service contracts and toward pursuing contracts for its niche products with higher margins; the nature and timing of receipt of, and our performance on, new or existing orders that can cause significant fluctuations in net sales and operating results; the timing and funding of government contracts; adjustments to gross profits on long-term contracts; risks associated with international sales; rapid technological change; evolving industry standards; new product announcements and enhancements, including the risks associated with Comtech's recent launch of HeightsTM Dynamic Network Access Technology ("HEIGHTS" or "HDNA"); changing customer demands; changes in prevailing economic and political conditions; changes in the price of oil in global markets; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; risks associated with Comtech's and TeleCommunication Systems, Inc.'s ("TCS") legacy legal proceedings, customer claims for indemnification, and other similar matters; risks associated with our obligations under our Secured Credit Facility, as amended; risks associated with our large contracts; the impact of H.R.1, also known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("Tax Reform"), which was enacted in December 2017 in the U.S.; and other factors described in this and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").
OVERVIEW
We are a leading provider of advanced communications solutions for both commercial and government customers worldwide.
Our solutions fulfill our customers’ needs for secure wireless communications in some of the most demanding environments, including those where traditional communications are unavailable or cost-prohibitive, and in mission-critical and other scenarios where performance is crucial.
•Commercial Solutions - serves commercial customers and smaller government customers, such as state and local governments, that require advanced communication technologies to meet their needs.
This segment also serves certain large government customers (including the U.S. government) that have requirements for off-the-shelf commercial equipment.
We believe this segment is a leading provider of satellite communications (such as satellite earth station modems and traveling wave tube amplifiers ("TWTA")), public safety systems (such as next generation 911 ("NG911") technologies) and enterprise application technologies (such as messaging and trusted location-based technologies).
•Government Solutions - serves large government end-users (including those of foreign countries) that require mission critical technologies and systems.
We believe this segment is a leading provider of command and control applications (such as the design, installation and operation of data networks that integrate computing and communications (including both satellite and terrestrial links)), ongoing network operation and management support services (including telecom expense management, project management and fielding and maintenance solutions related to satellite ground terminals), troposcatter communications (such as digital troposcatter multiplexers, digital over-the-horizon modems, troposcatter systems, and frequency converter systems) and RF power and switching technologies (such as solid state high-power broadband amplifiers, enhanced position location reporting system (commonly known as "EPLRS") amplifier assemblies, identification friend or foe amplifiers, and amplifiers used in the counteraction of improvised explosive devices).
Index
Our Quarterly Financial Information
Quarterly and period-to-period sales and operating results may be significantly affected by either short-term or long-term contracts with our customers.
In addition, our gross profit is affected by a variety of factors, including the mix of products, systems and services sold, production efficiencies, estimates of warranty expense, price competition and general economic conditions.
Our gross profit may also be affected by the impact of any cumulative adjustments to contracts that are accounted for under the percentage-of-completion method.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
We consider certain accounting policies to be critical due to the estimation process involved in each.
Revenue Recognition.
We earn revenue from the sale of advanced communication solutions to customers around the world.
Sales of advanced communication solutions can consist of any one or a combination of items required by our customer including hardware, technology platforms and related support.
A large portion of our revenue from advanced communication solutions is derived from contracts relating to the design, development or manufacture of complex electronic equipment to a buyer’s specification or to provide services relating to the performance of such contracts and is recognized in accordance with FASB ASC 605-35.
For these contracts, we primarily apply the percentage-of-completion accounting method and generally recognize revenue based on the relationship of total costs incurred to total projected costs, or, alternatively, based on output measures, such as units delivered or produced.
Profits expected to be realized on such contracts are based on total estimated sales for the contract compared to total estimated costs, including warranty costs, at completion of the contract.
Direct costs which include materials, labor and overhead are charged to work-in-progress (including our contracts-in-progress) inventory or cost of sales.
Indirect costs relating to long-term contracts, which include expenses such as general and administrative, are charged to expense as incurred and are not included in our work-in-process (including our contracts-in-progress) inventory or cost of sales.
Total estimates are reviewed and revised periodically throughout the lives of the contracts, and adjustments to profits resulting from such revisions are made cumulative to the date of the change.
Estimated losses on long-term contracts are recorded in the period in which the losses become evident.
Long-term U.S. government cost-reimbursable type contracts are also specifically covered by FASB ASC 605-35.
We have been engaged in the production and delivery of goods and services on a continual basis under contractual arrangements for many years.
Historically, we have demonstrated an ability to accurately estimate total revenues and total expenses relating to our long-term contracts.
However, there exist inherent risks and uncertainties in estimating revenues, expenses and progress toward completion, particularly on larger or longer-term contracts.
If we do not accurately estimate the total sales, related costs and progress towards completion on such contracts, the estimated gross margins may be significantly impacted or losses may need to be recognized in future periods.
Any such resulting changes in margins or contract losses could be material to our results of operations and financial condition.
In addition, most government contracts have termination for convenience clauses that provide the customer with the right to terminate the contract at any time.
Such terminations could impact the assumptions regarding total contract revenues and expenses utilized in recognizing profit under the percentage-of-completion method of accounting.
Changes to these assumptions could materially impact our results of operations and financial condition.
Historically, we have not experienced material terminations of our long-term contracts.
We also address customer acceptance provisions in assessing our ability to perform our contractual obligations under long-term contracts.
Our inability to perform on our long-term contracts could materially impact our results of operations and financial condition.
Historically, we have been able to perform on our long-term contracts.
Index
We also derive a portion of our revenues for advanced communication solutions from contracts and purchase orders where revenue is recorded on delivery of products or performance of services.
Such revenues are recognized in accordance with the authoritative guidance contained in FASB ASC 605-25 "Revenue Recognition - Multiple Deliverable Revenue Arrangements" ("FASB ASC 605-25") and, as applicable, FASB ASC 605-20 "Revenue Recognition - Services" ("FASB ASC 605-20") and Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2009-14 (FASB ASC Topic 985) "Certain Revenue Arrangements That Include Software Elements."
Revenue recognition for multiple-element arrangements requires judgment to determine if multiple elements exist, whether elements can be accounted for as separate units of accounting, and if so, the fair value for each of the elements.
In summary, we recognize revenue for each separate unit of accounting when the applicable revenue recognition criteria for each element have been met.
We allocate revenue to each separate unit of accounting in a multi-element arrangement based on the relative fair value of each element, using vendor-specific objective evidence ("VSOE") of their fair values, if available.
VSOE is generally determined based on the price charged when an element is sold separately.
In the absence of VSOE of fair value, the fee is allocated among each element based on third-party evidence ("TPE") of fair value, which is determined based on competitor pricing for similar deliverables when sold separately.
When we are unable to establish fair value using VSOE or TPE, we use estimated selling price ("ESP") to allocate value to each element.
The objective of ESP is to determine the price at which we would transact a sale if the product or service were sold separately.
We determine ESP for deliverables by considering multiple factors including, but not limited to, prices we charge for similar offerings, market conditions, competitive landscape, and pricing practices.
For multiple element arrangements that contain only software and software-related elements, we allocate the fees to each element based on the VSOE of fair value of each element.
Due to the nature of some of the agreements it may be difficult to establish VSOE of separate elements of an agreement; in these circumstances the appropriate recognition of revenue may require the use of judgment based on the particular facts and circumstances.
Adoption of New Revenue Standard
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.
As of April 30, 2018, total goodwill recorded on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet aggregated $290.6 million (of which $231.4 million relates to our Commercial Solutions segment and $59.2 million relates to our Government Solutions segment).
Additionally, as of April 30, 2018, net intangibles recorded on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet aggregated $246.1 million (of which $203.4 million relates to our Commercial Solutions segment and $42.6 million relates to our Government Solutions segment).
Each of our two operating segments constitutes a reporting unit and we must make various assumptions in determining their estimated fair values.
In accordance with FASB ASC 350 "Intangibles - Goodwill and Other," we perform a goodwill impairment analysis at least annually (in the first quarter of each fiscal year), unless indicators of impairment exist in interim periods.
If we fail the quantitative assessment of goodwill impairment ("quantitative assessment"), pursuant to our adoption of FASB ASU No.
2017-04 in fiscal 2017, we would be required to recognize an impairment loss equal to the amount that a reporting unit's carrying value exceeded its fair value; however, any loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.
Index
On August 1, 2017 (the first day of our fiscal 2018), we performed our annual quantitative assessment using market participant assumptions to determine if the fair value of each of our reporting units with goodwill exceeded its carrying value.
In making this assessment, we considered, among other things, expectations of projected net sales and cash flows, assumptions impacting the weighted average cost of capital, trends in trading multiples of comparable companies, changes in our stock price and changes in the carrying values of our reporting units with goodwill.
We also considered overall business conditions.
In performing the quantitative assessment, we estimated the fair value of each of our reporting units using a combination of the income and market approaches.
The income approach, also known as the discounted cash flow ("DCF") method, utilizes the present value of cash flows to estimate fair value.
The future cash flows for our reporting units were projected based on our estimates, at that time, of future revenues, operating income and other factors (such as working capital and capital expenditures).
For purposes of conducting our impairment analysis, we assumed revenue growth rates and cash flow projections that are below our actual long-term expectations.
The discount rates used in our DCF method were based on a weighted-average cost of capital ("WACC") determined from relevant market comparisons, adjusted upward for specific reporting unit risks (primarily the uncertainty of achieving projected operating cash flows).
A terminal value growth rate was applied to the final year of the projected period and reflected our estimate of stable, perpetual growth.
We then calculated a present value of the respective cash flows for each reporting unit to arrive at an estimate of fair value under the income approach.
Under the market approach, we estimated a fair value based on comparable companies' market multiples of revenues and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and factored in a control premium.
Finally, we compared our estimates of fair values to our August 1, 2017 total public market capitalization and assessed implied control premiums based on our common stock price of $18.47 as of August 1, 2017.
Based on our quantitative evaluation, we determined that our Commercial Solutions and Government Solutions reporting units had estimated fair values in excess of their carrying values of at least 17.8% and 52.9%, respectively, and concluded that our goodwill was not impaired and that neither of our two reporting units was at risk of failing the quantitative assessment.
However, in order to sensitize our goodwill impairment test, we performed a second analysis using only the income approach and concluded that neither reporting units' goodwill was impaired or at risk of failing the quantitative assessment.
It is possible that, during fiscal 2018 or beyond, business conditions (both in the U.S. and internationally) could deteriorate from the current state, our current or prospective customers could materially postpone, reduce or even forgo purchases of our products and services to a greater extent than we currently anticipate, or our common stock price could decline.
A significant decline in our customers' spending that is greater than we anticipate or a shift in funding priorities may also have a negative effect on future orders, sales, income and cash flows and we might be required to perform a quantitative assessment during fiscal 2018 or beyond.
If assumed net sales and cash flow projections are not achieved in future periods or our common stock price significantly declines from current levels, our Commercial Solutions and Government Solutions reporting units could be at risk of failing the quantitative assessment and goodwill assigned to the respective reporting units could be impaired.
In any event, we are required to perform the next annual goodwill impairment analysis on August 1, 2018 (the start of our fiscal 2019).
If our assumptions and related estimates change in the future, or if we change our reporting unit structure or other events and circumstances change (e.g., a sustained decrease in the price of our common stock (considered on both absolute terms and relative to peers)), we may be required to record impairment charges when we perform these tests, or in other future periods.
In addition to our impairment analysis of goodwill, we also review net intangible assets with finite lives when an event occurs indicating the potential for impairment.
We believe that the carrying values of our net intangible assets were recoverable as of April 30, 2018.
Any impairment charges that we may record in the future could be material to our results of operation and financial condition.
Provision for Warranty Obligations.
We provide warranty coverage for most of our products, including products under long-term contracts, for a period of at least one year from the date of shipment.
We record a liability for estimated warranty expense based on historical claims, product failure rates and other factors.
Costs associated with some of our warranties that are provided under long-term contracts are incorporated into our estimates of total contract costs.
There exist inherent risks and uncertainties in estimating warranty expenses, particularly on larger or longer-term contracts.
If we do not accurately estimate our warranty costs, any changes to our original estimates could be material to our results of operations and financial condition.
Accounting for Income Taxes.
Our deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on temporary differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and applying enacted tax rates expected to be in effect for the year in which we expect the differences to reverse.
Our provision for income taxes is based on domestic (including federal and state) and international statutory income tax rates in the tax jurisdictions where we operate, permanent differences between financial reporting and tax reporting and available credits and incentives.
We recognize interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions in income tax expense.
The U.S. federal government is our most significant income tax jurisdiction.
Index
Significant judgment is required in determining income tax provisions and tax positions.
We may be challenged upon review by the applicable taxing authority and positions taken by us may not be sustained.
We recognize all or a portion of the benefit of income tax positions only when we have made a determination that it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained upon examination, based upon the technical merits of the position and other factors.
For tax positions that are determined as more likely than not to be sustained upon examination, the tax benefit recognized is the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement.
The development of valuation allowances for deferred tax assets and reserves for income tax positions requires consideration of timing and judgments about future taxable income, tax issues and potential outcomes, and are subjective critical estimates.
A portion of our deferred tax assets consist of federal net operating losses and federal research and experimentation tax credit carryforwards, most of which was acquired in connection with our acquisition of TCS.
No valuation allowance has been established on these deferred tax assets based on our evaluation that our ability to realize such assets has met the criteria of "more likely than not."
We continuously evaluate additional facts representing positive and negative evidence in determining our ability to realize these deferred tax assets.
In certain circumstances, the ultimate outcome of exposures and risks involves significant uncertainties.
If actual outcomes differ materially from these estimates, they could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial condition.
On December 22, 2017, H.R.1, also known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("Tax Reform") was enacted in the U.S. Tax Reform significantly lowered the amount of our current and future income tax expense primarily due to the reduction in the U.S. statutory income tax rate from 35.0% to 21.0%.
This provision went into effect on January 1, 2018 and required us to remeasure our deferred tax assets and liabilities.
In fiscal 2019 and beyond, Tax Reform will result in the loss of our ability to take the domestic production activities deduction, which has been repealed, and is likely to result in lower tax deductions for certain executive compensation expenses.
During the nine months ended April 30, 2018, we recorded an estimated net discrete tax benefit of $14.1 million which, as a result of Tax Reform, primarily related to the remeasurement of deferred tax liabilities associated with non-deductible amortization related to intangible assets.
The remeasurement was recorded pursuant to ASC 740 "Income Taxes" and SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin ("SAB") 118, using estimates based on reasonable and supportable assumptions and available information as of the reporting date.
As such, we expect to finalize this net discrete tax benefit during the remainder of fiscal 2018.
In addition, it is possible that the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") will issue clarifying or interpretive guidance related to Tax Reform, which may ultimately result in a change to our estimated income tax.
Since November 2017, our federal income tax return for fiscal 2016 has been under audit by the IRS.
The audit is ongoing and we are unaware of any proposed adjustments by the IRS.
Our federal income tax return for fiscal 2015 is also subject to potential future IRS audit.
None of our state income tax returns prior to fiscal 2013 are subject to audit.
TCS’s federal income tax returns for tax years 2014 and 2015 and the tax period from January 1, 2016 to February 23, 2016 are subject to potential IRS audit.
None of TCS’s state income tax returns prior to calendar year 2013 are subject to audit.
The results of the IRS tax audit for fiscal 2016, future tax assessments or settlements could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition.
Research and Development Costs.
We generally expense all research and development costs.
Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other personnel-related expenses associated with product development.
Research and development expenses also include third-party development and programming costs.
Costs incurred internally in researching and developing software to be sold are charged to expense until technological feasibility has been established for the software.
Judgment is required in determining when technological feasibility of a product is established.
Technological feasibility for our advanced communication software solutions is generally reached after all high-risk development issues have been resolved through coding and testing.
Generally, this occurs shortly before the products are released to customers and when we are able to validate the marketability of such product.
Once technological feasibility is established, all software costs are capitalized until the product is available for general release to customers.
To date, we have not capitalized any of our internally developed software costs.
Provisions for Excess and Obsolete Inventory.
We record a provision for excess and obsolete inventory based on historical and future usage trends.
Other factors may also influence our provision, including decisions to exit a product line, technological change and new product development.
These factors could result in a change in the amount of excess and obsolete inventory on hand.
Additionally, our estimates of future product demand may prove to be inaccurate, in which case we may have understated or overstated the provision required for excess and obsolete inventory.
In the future, if we determine that our inventory was overvalued, we would be required to recognize such costs in our financial statements at the time of such determination.
Any such charge could be material to our results of operations and financial condition.
Index
Allowance for Doubtful Accounts.
We perform credit evaluations of our customers and adjust credit limits based upon customer payment history and current creditworthiness, as determined by our review of our customers’ current credit information.
Generally, we will require cash in advance or payment secured by irrevocable letters of credit before an order is accepted from an international customer that we do not do business with regularly.
In addition, we seek to obtain insurance for certain domestic and international customers.
We monitor collections and payments from our customers and maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts based upon our historical experience and any specific customer collection issues that we have identified.
In light of ongoing tight credit market conditions, we continue to see requests from our customers for higher credit limits and longer payment terms.
Because of our strong cash position and the nominal amount of interest we are earning on our cash and cash equivalents, we have, on a limited basis, approved certain customer requests.
We continue to monitor our accounts receivable credit portfolio.
Our overall credit losses have historically been within our expectations of the allowances established; however, we cannot guarantee that we will continue to experience the same credit loss rates that we have in the past.
Measurement of credit losses requires consideration of historical loss experience, including the need to adjust for changing business conditions, and judgments about the probable effects of relevant observable data, including present economic conditions such as delinquency rates and the financial health of specific customers.
Changes to the estimated allowance for doubtful accounts could be material to our results of operations and financial condition.
Index
Business Outlook for Fiscal 2018
•Net sales of $147.9 million;
•Operating income of $14.0 million;
•Net income of $8.2 million;
•Cash flows from operating activities of $21.4 million; and
•Adjusted EBITDA (a Non-GAAP financial measure discussed below) of $23.5 million.
Our pipeline of opportunities remains strong and overall business activity is at the highest level it has been in several years.
As discussed below, our third quarter results reflect the impact of strong demand and favorable product mix changes.
During the three months ended April 30, 2018, our Commercial Solutions segment received a large strategic multi-year contract award from the U.S. Navy's Space and Naval Warfare Systems Command in the amount of $59.0 million to purchase our SLM-5650B satellite modems, upgrade kits and related services.
We have received initial funding of approximately $8.2 million and given the U.S. Navy's pressing operational needs, we shipped most of these orders during our third quarter, which positively impacted our operating income.
We originally expected to begin shipments of this satellite earth station equipment during our fourth quarter of fiscal 2018.
Although timing for U.S. government orders are generally difficult to predict, we are optimistic that we will receive and ship additional orders for this equipment during the remainder of fiscal 2018.
In addition to strong demand from our U.S. Navy customer, we continue to see signs that our HeightsTM Dynamic Network Access Technology ("HEIGHTS" or "HDNA") solutions are gaining traction.
During the third quarter, Orange Business Services, one of the largest telecommunications operations and IT services company in the world, selected HEIGHTS to support relief projects in two African countries.
This award is a testament to our HEIGHTS products and bodes well for future orders from this and other similar customers.
Our Commercial Solutions segment was awarded a $10.1 million multi-year contract to provide one of the largest wireless carriers in the U.S. with a hosted, advanced location services platform.
During our third quarter, we were also awarded a two-year multi-million dollar contract to provide Next Generation ("NG") Text to 911 emergency services for the state of Maryland.
Through this contract award, 911 call centers located across the state of Maryland will be outfitted to receive and respond to text messages sent to 911.
Overall, we experienced strong order flow across many of our product lines and achieved a consolidated book-to-bill ratio (a measure defined as bookings divided by net sales) of 1.11 for the most recent quarter.
As of April 30, 2018, our consolidated backlog was $583.7 million, close to our record high.
Our backlog, as more fully defined in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC, only consists of funded and firm contract orders.
Our backlog does not include the unfunded portions of multi-year contracts.
As such, the total value of multi-year contracts that we have received is substantially higher than our reported backlog.
Given our expectations for the fourth quarter, we expect fiscal 2018 to be a year of net sales and Adjusted EBITDA growth.
Excluding a number of favorable adjustments throughout fiscal 2017, which aggregated $18.8 million and which are more fully discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2017, as filed with the SEC, fiscal 2018 is also expected to be a year of operating income growth.
Index
•an annual net sales growth rate of close to 5.0% as compared to fiscal 2017;
•consolidated operating income, as a percentage of net sales, of approximately 5.2% which compares favorably with the 3.3% of consolidated net sales we achieved in fiscal 2017 (excluding the $18.8 million of favorable adjustments that are more fully discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2017, as filed with the SEC);
•an annual Adjusted EBITDA growth rate of close to 6.0%; and
•Adjusted EBITDA, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, of close to 13.0%.
We believe these targeted metrics demonstrate the strength of our business, particularly considering that our fiscal 2017 results include the benefit of $6.7 million of BFT-1 intellectual property license fees (which the U.S. Army is no longer obligated to pay us to support the BFT-1 system).
From a timing perspective, our fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 is still expected to be the peak quarter for both consolidated net sales and Adjusted EBITDA but our third quarter of fiscal 2018 is now expected to be the peak quarter of consolidated operating income.
As discussed above, our operating income for the third quarter reflects the benefit of shipments of satellite earth station equipment to the U.S. Navy that were previously expected to occur in our fourth quarter of fiscal 2018.
Our fourth quarter net sales assumptions now reflect this and other changes in product mix (including lower expected sales of higher margin cyber training software solutions).
As we did last year, we intend to pay certain fiscal 2018 non-equity incentive awards in the form of fully vested share units which will result in an increase in amortization of stock-based compensation in our fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 as compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
This amortization expense is included in the calculation of operating income but is excluded from our Adjusted EBITDA financial measure.
Based on the type of awards currently outstanding and awards expected to be issued during the remainder of fiscal 2018, total amortization of stock-based compensation is expected to be higher in fiscal 2018 than in fiscal 2017.
If order flow remains strong and we are able to achieve all of our fiscal 2018 business goals, it is possible that our fiscal 2018 net sales and Adjusted EBITDA growth rates could be higher than our targeted amounts.
We expect our GAAP net income to be higher in fiscal 2018 as compared to fiscal 2017 primarily due to the benefits associated with H.R.1, also known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("Tax Reform") which was enacted on December 22, 2017.
Our fourth quarter expectations and Business Outlook for Fiscal 2018 depend, in large part, on timely deliveries and the receipt of and performance on orders from our customers and could be adversely impacted if deliveries are delayed, business conditions deteriorate or our current or prospective customers materially postpone, reduce or even forgo purchases of our products and services.
Additionally, we continue to evaluate cost reduction initiatives in our business.
Such actions primarily relate to reducing the size and cost of our facilities.
Our Business Outlook for Fiscal 2018 does not consider the financial impact of any actions we may take.
On June 6, 2018, our Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.10 per common share, payable on August 17, 2018 to stockholders of record at the close of business on July 16, 2018.
Future dividends remain subject to compliance with financial covenants under our Secured Credit Facility, as amended, as well as Board approval.
Additional information related to our Business Outlook for Fiscal 2018 and a definition and explanation of Adjusted EBITDA is included in the below section "Item 2.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Comparison of the Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended April 30, 2018 and 2017" and "Item 2.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Comparison of the Results of Operations for the Nine Months Ended April 30, 2018 and 2017."
Index
COMPARISON OF THE RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE THREE MONTHS ENDED APRIL 30, 2018 AND 2017
Net Sales.
Consolidated net sales were $147.9 million and $127.8 million for the three months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, representing an increase of $20.1 million, or 15.7%.
The period-over-period increase in net sales was due primarily to higher net sales in both our Commercial Solutions segment and Government Solutions segment.
Net sales by operating segment are discussed below.
Commercial Solutions
Net sales in our Commercial Solutions segment were $89.9 million for the three months ended April 30, 2018, as compared to $79.4 million for the three months ended April 30, 2017, an increase of $10.5 million, or 13.2%.
Our Commercial Solutions segment represented 60.8% of consolidated net sales for the three months ended April 30, 2018 as compared to 62.1% for the three months ended April 30, 2017.
Bookings during the three months ended April 30, 2018 were solid.
Although bookings were lower than the amount we achieved during the second quarter of fiscal 2018, bookings increased as compared to the three months ended April 30, 2017.
Our second quarter of fiscal 2018 reflected the benefit of a large multi-year strategic contract valued at $134.0 million to provide one of the largest wireless carriers in the U.S. with enhanced 911 ("E911") services.
Our book-to-bill ratio (a measure defined as bookings divided by net sales) for the three months ended April 30, 2018 was 0.93.
As further discussed below, we have a growing pipeline of opportunities and expect that the book-to-bill ratio in this segment will exceed 1.00 for fiscal 2018.
We continue to see strong demand in almost all of our Commercial Solutions product lines, which are further discussed below.
Net sales of our satellite earth station products in fiscal 2018 also reflect the benefit of orders received for our HeightsTM Dynamic Network Access Technology ("HEIGHTS" or "HDNA") solutions.
We continue to see signs that our HEIGHTS solutions are gaining traction.
We believe HEIGHTS is a revolutionary technology that is designed to deliver the highest Internet Protocol bits per Hertz in its class, as well as robust reliability.
HEIGHTS has been and will continue to be a cornerstone of our future research and development efforts.
Although the sales cycle for this product line is longer than our historical satellite earth station product line sales cycle, to-date, we have announced several important customer wins for this product line and our pipeline of opportunities continues to grow.
For example, during the third quarter of fiscal 2018, we announced that Orange Business Services, one of the largest telecommunications operations and IT services companies in the world, selected HEIGHTS to help them support relief projects in two African countries.
We believe this order bodes well for the future given the purchasing influence that Orange Business Services has in other countries.
Net sales during the three months ended April 30, 2018 of both enterprise technology solutions (such as our location and messaging platforms) and safety and security technology solutions (such as our wireless and next generation 911 ("NG911") platforms) were higher as compared to the net sales we achieved during the three months ended April 30, 2017.
During our third quarter of fiscal 2018, we were awarded a $10.1 million multi-year contract to provide one of the largest wireless carriers in the U.S. with a hosted, advanced location services platform which leverages our Position Determining Engine ("PDE").
Under this competitively awarded contract, the U.S. wireless carrier is expected to migrate existing location services from a competitive solution to our more advanced, secure and reliable technologies.
Also, we were awarded a two-year multi-million dollar contract to provide Next Generation ("NG") Text to 911 emergency services for the state of Maryland.
Through this contract award, 911 call centers located across the state of Maryland will be outfitted to receive and respond to text messages sent to 911.
In our view, these contract awards validate that our enterprise technology solutions and safety and security technology solutions are more advanced, secure and reliable than any existing competitive technology.
Market conditions remain favorable and we expect that aggregate net sales of these solutions in fiscal 2018 will be higher than in fiscal 2017.
Index
Overall, we expect fiscal 2018 net sales in our Commercial Solutions segment to be higher than fiscal 2017.
Bookings, sales and profitability in our Commercial Solutions segment can fluctuate from period-to-period due to many factors, including changes in the general business environment.
As such, period-to-period comparisons of our results may not be indicative of a trend or future performance.
Government Solutions
Net sales in our Government Solutions segment were $57.9 million for the three months ended April 30, 2018 as compared to $48.4 million for the three months ended April 30, 2017, an increase of $9.5 million, or 19.6%.
Our Government Solutions segment represented 39.2% of consolidated net sales for the three months ended April 30, 2018, as compared to 37.9% for the three months ended April 30, 2017.
Net sales of our command and control solutions (which include the design, installation and operation of secure wireless communication networks, cyber intelligence solutions and blue-force tracking solutions) during the three months ended April 30, 2018 were significantly higher than the three months ended April 30, 2017.
Our most recent quarter benefited from sales to a major U.S. space contractor to source and test space level Electrical, Electronic and Electromechanical ("EEE") parts in support of critical NASA programs and from an international space agency for the design, development and installation of multiple launch vehicle tracking stations in the South Pacific.
We continue to work with the U.S. Army on our recently awarded $11.7 million order to provide several thousand of our next generation MT-2025 mobile satellite transceivers to support the U.S. Army's BFT-2 system.
The BFT-2 system, which is part of the U.S. Army's JBC-P program, provides global real-time situational awareness and networking capabilities for U.S. warfighters and is the successor to the BFT-1 system.
We expect initial shipments of MT-2025 transceivers to start during our fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 and additional orders for our MT-2025 transceivers are ultimately expected.
Although net sales of our over-the-horizon microwave systems products this quarter were lower than the comparative quarter ended April 30, 2017, business activity in our over-the-horizon microwave systems product line continues to pick-up.
During the third quarter of fiscal 2018, we shipped certain troposcatter equipment to support U.S. Army activities throughout the Korean Peninsula.
We believe demand for our over-the-horizon microwave systems will increase and have recently submitted a proposal to supply a significant quantity of our over-the-horizon microwave systems to the U.S. Army.
We teamed with a large prime contractor and we are hopeful that we can win this multi-million dollar award in fiscal 2019.
Although the timing of large contract awards makes it difficult to predict our book-to-bill ratio in any given period, we have a growing pipeline of opportunities and expect the book-to-bill ratio in this segment for fiscal 2018 to exceed 1.00.
Given year-to-date order flow and expected new orders, we anticipate that fiscal 2018 net sales for our Government Solutions segment will be higher than the amount we achieved in fiscal 2017.
Bookings, sales and profitability in our Government Solutions segment can fluctuate dramatically from period-to-period due to many factors, including unpredictable funding, deployment and technology decisions by our U.S. and international government customers.
As such, period-to-period comparisons of our results may not be indicative of a trend or future performance.
Index
Geography and Customer Type
Sales to U.S. government customers include sales to the U.S. Department of Defense ("DoD"), intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as sales directly to or through prime contractors.
Domestic sales include sales to commercial customers, as well as to U.S. state and local governments.
Included in domestic sales, are sales to Verizon Communications Inc. ("Verizon"), which represented 9.8% of consolidated net sales for the three months ended April 30, 2018.
Sales to Verizon were less than 10.0% of consolidated net sales for the comparable prior year period.
International sales for the three months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017 (which include sales to U.S. domestic companies for inclusion in products that are sold to international customers) were $36.3 million and $34.1 million, respectively.
Except for the U.S., no individual country (including sales to U.S. domestic companies for inclusion in products that are sold to a foreign country) represented more than 10.0% of consolidated net sales for the three months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017.
Gross Profit.
Gross profit was $62.4 million for the three months ended April 30, 2018 as compared to $52.5 million for the three months ended April 30, 2017, an increase of $9.9 million.
This increase in gross profit dollars was largely driven by higher net sales in both our Commercial Solutions and Government Solutions segments, offset in part by the absence of $1.7 million of BFT-1 intellectual property license fees during the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
Gross profit, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, was 42.2% for the three months ended April 30, 2018 as compared to 41.1% for the three months ended April 30, 2017.
Gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, is further discussed below.
Our Commercial Solutions segment's gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, for the three months ended April 30, 2018 was higher than the comparable prior year period.
The increase was primarily due to higher net sales and overall favorable product mix changes (including earlier than expected shipments of satellite earth station equipment to the U.S. Navy) during the most recent fiscal quarter.
Given timing and other product mix changes, gross profit in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 in this segment is expected to decline from the level achieved in the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
Overall, we expect gross profit in this segment, as a percentage of related fiscal 2018 net sales, to be comparable to the percentage achieved in fiscal 2017.
Our Government Solutions segment's gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, for the three months ended April 30, 2018 was slightly lower when compared to the prior year period, but an improvement over the first two quarters of fiscal 2018.
Our third quarter of fiscal 2018 reflects the absence of $1.7 million of BFT-1 intellectual property license fees that benefited the fiscal quarter ended April 30, 2017, as discussed above.
Although we expect net sales in the fourth quarter in this segment to increase as compared to our most recent quarter, we have updated our product mix assumptions for the remainder of fiscal 2018 which now reflect lower expected sales of higher margin cyber training software solutions, offset by other anticipated command and control solution sales.
Sales cycles for cyber training software solutions are generally long and timing of related awards is difficult to predict.
As a result of our updated product mix assumptions, we believe that gross profit (both in dollars and as a percentage of net sales in this segment) will be lower in the fourth quarter as compared to our third quarter of fiscal 2018.
Overall, given the absence of BFT-1 intellectual property license fees in fiscal 2018, we expect gross profit in this segment, both in dollars and as a percentage of related net sales, to be lower than the respective metrics achieved in fiscal 2017.
However, over time, we believe the implementation of our strategy of shifting our Government Solutions segment away from bidding on large commodity service contracts and toward pursuing contracts for our niche solutions will result in higher gross margins in this segment.
Index
Included in consolidated cost of sales for the three months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017 are provisions for excess and obsolete inventory of $1.2 million and $0.7 million, respectively.
As discussed in "Item 2.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies - Provisions for Excess and Obsolete Inventory," we regularly review our inventory and record a provision for excess and obsolete inventory based on historical and projected usage assumptions.
Because our consolidated gross profit, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, depends on the volume of sales, sales mix and related gross profit for each individual segment, it is inherently difficult to forecast.
Nevertheless, based on expected bookings, the anticipated timing of our performance on orders and the absence of the BFT-1 intellectual property license fees, we currently expect our consolidated gross profit, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, for fiscal 2018 to be slightly lower than the percentage we achieved in fiscal 2017.
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses.
Selling, general and administrative expenses were $30.4 million and $25.9 million for the three months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, representing an increase of $4.5 million.
As a percentage of consolidated net sales, selling, general and administrative expenses were 20.6% and 20.3% for the three months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The increase in spending, both in dollars and as a percentage of consolidated net sales, is primarily attributable to the recovery of certain legal expenses from a third party during the three months ended April 30, 2017.
Our results for the most recent quarter reflect the benefits of prior cost reduction actions.
We continue to evaluate and implement cost reduction initiatives to reduce unnecessary spending, reduce the size and cost of our facilities and improve our productivity.
Our Business Outlook for Fiscal 2018 does not consider the financial impact of any actions we may take.
Amortization of stock-based compensation expense recorded as selling, general and administrative expenses was $1.0 million and $0.9 million for the three months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Based on our current spending plans, we expect fiscal 2018 selling, general and administrative expenses, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, to be comparable to fiscal 2017.
Research and Development Expenses.
Research and development expenses were $12.8 million and $13.0 million for the three months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, representing a decrease of $0.2 million, or 1.5%.
As a percentage of consolidated net sales, research and development expenses were 8.7% and 10.2% for the three months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The decrease, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, was due primarily to the higher net sales during the most recent fiscal quarter, as discussed above.
For the three months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017, research and development expenses of $11.3 million and $10.7 million, respectively, related to our Commercial Solutions segment and $1.4 million and $2.2 million, respectively, related to our Government Solutions segment.
The remaining research and development expenses of $0.1 million for both the three months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, related to the amortization of stock-based compensation expense.
Whenever possible, we seek customer funding for research and development to adapt our products to specialized customer requirements.
During the three months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017, customers reimbursed us $5.0 million and $5.9 million, respectively, which is not reflected in the reported research and development expenses, but is included in consolidated net sales with the related costs included in cost of sales.
We continue to invest in enhancements to existing products as well as in new products across almost all of our product lines.
Based on our current spending plans, we expect fiscal 2018 research and development expenses, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, to be comparable to fiscal 2017.
Amortization of Intangibles.
Amortization relating to intangible assets with finite lives was $5.3 million (of which $4.4 million was for the Commercial Solutions segment and $0.8 million was for the Government Solutions segment) for the three months ended April 30, 2018 and $5.5 million (of which $4.4 million was for the Commercial Solutions segment and $1.0 million was for the Government Solutions segment) for the three months ended April 30, 2017.
The decrease is a result of certain intangibles that became fully amortized in fiscal 2017.
As such, we anticipate amortization of intangibles in fiscal 2018 to be lower than in fiscal 2017.
Settlement of Intellectual Property Litigation.
During the three months ended April 30, 2017, we recorded a favorable adjustment to operating income of $2.0 million, net of estimated legal fees, to reflect a lower loss than originally estimated for a TCS intellectual property matter which was settled during that period.
There was no comparable adjustment in the three months ended April 30, 2018.
Index
The increase during the most recent fiscal quarter in our Commercial Solutions segment’s operating income, in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, was primarily due to higher net sales, overall favorable product mix changes and the benefit of cost reduction actions previously initiated, as discussed above.
Given earlier than expected shipments of satellite earth station equipment to the U.S. Navy, our third quarter of fiscal 2018 is expected to be the peak quarter of operating income for this segment.
Overall, we expect fiscal 2018 operating income in our Commercial Solutions segment, in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, to increase as compared to fiscal 2017.
The increase during the most recent fiscal quarter in our Government Solutions segment's operating income, in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, was primarily due to higher net sales, overall product mix changes and the benefit of cost reduction actions previously initiated, offset in part by the absence of $1.7 million of BFT-1 intellectual property license fees, as discussed above.
Based on the strength of our third quarter performance, an assessment of timing associated with our current backlog and updated product mix assumptions for the remainder of fiscal 2018 (including lower expected sales of higher margin cyber training software solutions), we expect this segment's operating income for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 to be comparable to the amount we achieved during the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
Overall, operating income for this segment, in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, is expected to be higher in fiscal 2018 than in fiscal 2017.
Unallocated operating expenses for the three months ended April 30, 2018 were $5.4 million as compared to operating income of $0.2 million for the three months ended April 30, 2017 (which includes a favorable adjustment of $2.0 million, as discussed above).
Excluding the $2.0 million adjustment, unallocated operating expenses would have been $1.8 million for the three months ended April 30, 2017.
The increase to $5.4 million from $1.8 million is primarily attributable to the recovery of certain legal expenses from a third party during the three months ended April 30, 2017.
Unallocated operating expenses for the most recent fiscal quarter includes the benefit of cost reduction actions previously initiated.
Unallocated operating expenses for the three months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017 include amortization of stock-based compensation of $1.1 million and $1.0 million, respectively.
Amortization of stock-based compensation expense can fluctuate from period-to-period based on the type and timing of stock-based awards.
Given the timing of anticipated fiscal 2018 awards, amortization of stock-based compensation is expected to be significantly higher in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 as compared to our most recent quarter.
Based on the type of awards currently outstanding and awards expected to be issued during the remainder of fiscal 2018, amortization of stock-based compensation is also expected to be higher in fiscal 2018 than in fiscal 2017.
Looking forward, we expect our unallocated operating expenses in fiscal 2018 to significantly increase as compared to the $5.6 million of unallocated operating expenses for fiscal 2017.
During fiscal 2017, unallocated operating expenses were offset by a number of favorable adjustments throughout the fiscal year, which aggregated $18.8 million and which are more fully discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2017, as filed with the SEC.
Excluding the $18.8 million of favorable adjustments, unallocated operating expenses in fiscal 2017 would have been $24.4 million.
Given the success of our cost reduction actions taken to date and current spending plans, we expect our unallocated operating expenses in fiscal 2018 to be lower than the $24.4 million of unallocated operating expenses incurred in fiscal 2017, prior to the favorable adjustments discussed above.
On a consolidated basis, we are targeting to achieve operating income, as a percentage of net sales, of approximately 5.2% in fiscal 2018, which compares favorably with the 3.3% of consolidated net sales we achieved in fiscal 2017 (excluding the $18.8 million of favorable adjustments to operating income discussed above).
Based on the strength of our third quarter performance, an assessment of timing associated with our current backlog and updated product mix assumptions for the remainder of fiscal 2018, we now expect consolidated operating income for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 to be the peak quarter for the fiscal year.
Index
Interest Expense.
Interest expense was $2.5 million and $2.8 million for the three months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The decline in interest expense primarily reflects lower total indebtedness, which declined from $235.4 million as of April 30, 2017 to $186.4 million as of April 30, 2018.
Interest expense for both periods primarily reflects interest on our Secured Credit Facility, as amended.
Based on the type, terms, amount of outstanding debt (including capital leases and other obligations) and current interest rates, we estimate that our effective interest rate (including amortization of deferred financing costs) will approximate 5.4% in fiscal 2018.
Our actual cash borrowing rate (which excludes the amortization of deferred financing costs) currently approximates 4.3%.
Interest (Income) and Other.
Interest (income) and other for both the three months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017 was nominal.
All of our available cash and cash equivalents are currently invested in bank deposits and money market deposit accounts which, at this time, are currently yielding a blended annual interest rate of approximately 0.64%.
Provision For Income Taxes.
Our provision for income taxes was $3.1 million and $2.9 million for the three months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Our effective tax rate was 27.2% for the three months ended April 30, 2018, as compared to 39.5% for the three months ended April 30, 2017.
During the three months ended April 30, 2018, we recorded a net discrete tax expense of less than $0.1 million.
Our effective tax rate for the three months ended April 30, 2017 reflects a net discrete tax expense of $0.3 million.
Excluding discrete tax items for the three months ended April 30, 2018, our estimated effective tax rate would have been 27.0%.
Our effective tax rate, excluding discrete tax items, for the three months ended April 30, 2017 was 36.0%.
The decrease from 36.0% to 27.0% is principally attributable to the passage of Tax Reform which reduced the statutory income tax rate from 35.0% to 21.0%, or a blended income tax rate of approximately 27.0%.
Net Income.
During the three months ended April 30, 2018, consolidated net income was $8.2 million as compared to $4.4 million during the three months ended April 30, 2017.
The increase in consolidated Adjusted EBITDA during the three months ended April 30, 2018 as compared to the three months ended April 30, 2017 was primarily attributable to higher net sales and overall favorable product mix changes, offset in part by higher operating expenses during the three months ended April 30, 2018 as a result of the increased sales activity during the period.
Also, selling, general and administrative expenses during the three months ended April 30, 2017 included a recovery of certain legal expenses from a third party, as discussed above.
Index
The increase in our Commercial Solutions segment's Adjusted EBITDA, in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, during the most recent fiscal quarter was primarily due to higher net sales, overall favorable product mix changes and the benefit of cost reduction actions previously initiated, as discussed above.
The increase in our Government Solutions segment's Adjusted EBITDA, in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, during the most recent fiscal quarter was primarily due to higher net sales, overall product mix changes and the benefit of cost reduction actions previously initiated, offset in part by an absence of $1.7 million of BFT-1 intellectual property license fees, as discussed above.
As a result of the aforementioned change in product mix assumptions for the remainder of fiscal 2018, our fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 Adjusted EBITDA in this segment is expected to be lower than the amount we reported in our most recent period.
Looking forward, we anticipate consolidated Adjusted EBITDA to increase in the fourth quarter as compared to the amount we achieved in the third quarter.
Given our year-to-date performance, we are targeting fiscal 2018 Adjusted EBITDA to grow close to 6.0% over the $70.7 million we achieved in fiscal 2017.
In addition, despite the absence of $6.7 million of BFT-1 intellectual property license fees (which the U.S. Army is no longer obligated to pay us to support the BFT-1 system), we expect Adjusted EBITDA, as a percentage of fiscal 2018 consolidated net sales, to be close to 13.0%, which is slightly higher than the 12.8% we achieved in fiscal 2017.
We believe these targeted financial metrics demonstrate the strength of our business.
If order flow remains strong and we are able to achieve all of our fiscal 2018 business goals, it is possible that our fiscal 2018 Adjusted EBITDA financial metrics could be higher than our targeted amounts.
Index
Our Adjusted EBITDA is a Non-GAAP measure that represents earnings (loss) before income taxes, interest (income) and other expense, interest expense, amortization of stock-based compensation, amortization of intangibles, depreciation expense, settlement of intellectual property litigation, acquisition plan expenses or strategic alternatives analysis expenses and other.
Our definition of Adjusted EBITDA may differ from the definition of EBITDA used by other companies and therefore may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
Adjusted EBITDA is also a measure frequently requested by our investors and analysts.
We believe that investors and analysts may use Adjusted EBITDA, along with other information contained in our SEC filings, in assessing our performance and comparability of our results with other companies.
These Non-GAAP financial measures have limitations as an analytical tool as they exclude the financial impact of transactions necessary to conduct our business, such as the granting of equity compensation awards, and are not intended to be an alternative to financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
These measures are adjusted as described in the reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP in the above table, but these adjustments should not be construed as an inference that all of these adjustments or costs are unusual, infrequent or non-recurring.
Non-GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for or superior to, financial measures determined in accordance with GAAP.
Investors are advised to carefully review the GAAP financial results that are disclosed in our SEC filings.
We have not quantitatively reconciled our fiscal 2018 Adjusted EBITDA target to the most directly comparable GAAP measure because items such as stock-based compensation, adjustments to the provision for income taxes, amortization of intangibles and interest expense, which are specific items that impact these measures, have not yet occurred, are out of our control, or cannot be predicted.
For example, quantification of stock-based compensation expense requires inputs such as the number of shares granted and market price that are not currently ascertainable.
Accordingly, reconciliations to the Non-GAAP forward looking metrics are not available without unreasonable effort and such unavailable reconciling items could significantly impact our financial results.
Index
COMPARISON OF THE RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR NINE MONTHS ENDED APRIL 30, 2018 AND 2017
Net Sales.
Consolidated net sales were $403.2 million and $402.6 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, representing an increase of $0.6 million, or 0.1%.
The period-over-period increase in net sales was due primarily to higher net sales in our Commercial Solutions segment offset by lower net sales in our Government Solutions segment.
Net sales by operating segment are discussed below.
Commercial Solutions
Net sales in our Commercial Solutions segment were $251.9 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2018, as compared to $237.7 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2017, an increase of $14.2 million, or 6.0%.
Our Commercial Solutions segment represented 62.5% of consolidated net sales for the nine months ended April 30, 2018 as compared to 59.0% for the nine months ended April 30, 2017.
Bookings during the nine month period in fiscal 2018 were strong and reflect strength in almost all of our Commercial Solutions product lines.
Our book-to-bill ratio (a measure defined as bookings divided by net sales) for the nine months ended April 30, 2018 was 1.40.
As further discussed below, we have a growing pipeline of opportunities and expect that the book-to-bill ratio in this segment will exceed 1.00 for fiscal 2018.
Net sales of our satellite earth station products in fiscal 2018 also reflect the benefit of orders received for our HeightsTM Dynamic Network Access Technology ("HEIGHTS" or "HDNA") solutions.
We continue to see signs that our HEIGHTS solutions are gaining traction.
We believe HEIGHTS is a revolutionary technology that is designed to deliver the highest Internet Protocol bits per Hertz in its class, as well as robust reliability.
HEIGHTS has been and will continue to be a cornerstone of our future research and development efforts.
Although the sales cycle for this product line is longer than our historical satellite earth station product line sales cycle, to-date, we have announced several important customer wins for this product line and our pipeline of opportunities continues to grow.
For example, during the third quarter of fiscal 2018, we announced that Orange Business Services, one of the largest telecommunications operations and IT services companies in the world, selected HEIGHTS to help them support relief projects in two African countries.
We believe this order bodes well for the future given the purchasing influence that Orange Business Services has in other countries.
Index
Overall, we expect fiscal 2018 net sales in our Commercial Solutions segment to be higher than fiscal 2017.
Bookings, sales and profitability in our Commercial Solutions segment can fluctuate from period-to-period due to many factors, including changes in the general business environment.
As such, period-to-period comparisons of our results may not be indicative of a trend or future performance.
Government Solutions
Net sales in our Government Solutions segment were $151.3 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2018 as compared to $164.9 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2017, a decrease of $13.6 million, or 8.2%.
Our Government Solutions segment represented 37.5% of consolidated net sales for the nine months ended April 30, 2018, as compared to 41.0% for the nine months ended April 30, 2017.
Net sales of our command and control solutions (which include the design, installation and operation of secure wireless communication networks, cyber intelligence solutions and blue-force tracking solutions) during the nine months ended April 30, 2018 were higher than the nine months ended April 30, 2017.
Our most recent nine month period benefited from sales to a major U.S. space contractor to source and test space level Electrical, Electronic and Electromechanical ("EEE") parts in support of critical NASA programs and from an international space agency for the design, development and installation of multiple launch vehicle tracking stations in the South Pacific.
We continue to work with the U.S. Army on our recently awarded $11.7 million order to provide several thousand of our next generation MT-2025 mobile satellite transceivers to support the U.S. Army's BFT-2 system.
The BFT-2 system, which is part of the U.S. Army's JBC-P program, provides global real-time situational awareness and networking capabilities for U.S. warfighters and is the successor to the BFT-1 system.
We expect initial shipments of MT-2025 transceivers to start during our fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 and additional orders for our MT-2025 transceivers are ultimately expected.
Although net sales of our over-the-horizon microwave systems products for the nine months ended April 30, 2018 were lower than the comparative period of the prior year, business activity in our over-the-horizon microwave systems product line continues to pick-up.
During the nine months ended April 30, 2018, we shipped certain troposcatter equipment to support U.S. Army activities throughout the Korean Peninsula.
We believe demand for our over-the-horizon microwave systems will increase and have recently submitted a proposal to supply a significant quantity of our over-the-horizon microwave systems to the U.S. Army.
We teamed with a large prime contractor and we are hopeful that we can win this multi-million dollar award in fiscal 2019.
Although the timing of large contract awards makes it difficult to predict our book-to-bill ratio in any given period, we have a growing pipeline of opportunities and expect the book-to-bill ratio in this segment for fiscal 2018 to exceed 1.00.
Given year-to-date order flow and expected new orders, we anticipate that fiscal 2018 net sales for our Government Solutions segment will be higher than the amount we achieved in fiscal 2017.
Bookings, sales and profitability in our Government Solutions segment can fluctuate dramatically from period-to-period due to many factors, including unpredictable funding, deployment and technology decisions by our U.S. and international government customers.
As such, period-to-period comparisons of our results may not be indicative of a trend or future performance.
Index
Geography and Customer Type
Sales to U.S. government customers include sales to the U.S. Department of Defense ("DoD"), intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as sales directly to or through prime contractors.
Domestic sales include sales to commercial customers, as well as to U.S. state and local governments.
Included in domestic sales, are sales to Verizon Communications Inc. ("Verizon"), which represented 10.6% of consolidated net sales for the nine months ended April 30, 2018.
Sales to Verizon were less than 10.0% of consolidated net sales for the nine months ended April 30, 2017.
International sales for the nine months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017 (which include sales to U.S. domestic companies for inclusion in products that are sold to international customers) were $100.0 million and $116.6 million, respectively.
Except for the U.S., no individual country (including sales to U.S. domestic companies for inclusion in products that are sold to a foreign country) represented more than 10.0% of consolidated net sales for the nine months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017.
Gross Profit.
Gross profit was $161.0 million and $157.8 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The increase of $3.2 million in gross profit dollars was largely driven by higher net sales and overall favorable product mix changes in our Commercial Solutions segment, offset by significantly lower net sales of over-the-horizon microwave systems products and the absence of $6.7 million of BFT-1 intellectual property license fees in our Government Solutions segment, as discussed above.
Gross profit, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, increased from 39.2% for the nine months ended April 30, 2017 to 39.9% for the nine months ended April 30, 2018.
The increase in gross profit percentage is largely attributable to a greater percentage of our consolidated net sales during the nine months ended April 30, 2018 occurring in our Commercial Solutions segment, which historically achieves higher gross margins than our Government Solutions segment, as well as a favorable warranty settlement during the nine months ended April 30, 2018 that resulted in a $0.7 million reduction to cost of sales (which is reflected in our unallocated segment).
Gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, is further discussed below.
Our Commercial Solutions segment's gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, for the nine months ended April 30, 2018 was higher than the comparable prior year period.
The increase was primarily due to higher net sales and overall favorable product mix changes (including earlier than expected shipments of satellite earth station equipment to the U.S. Navy) during the most recent nine month period.
Given timing and other product mix changes, gross profit in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 in this segment is expected to decline from the level achieved in the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
Overall, we expect gross profit in this segment, as a percentage of related fiscal 2018 net sales, to be comparable to the percentage achieved in fiscal 2017.
Index
Our Government Solutions segment's gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, for the nine months ended April 30, 2018 was lower as compared to the nine months ended April 30, 2017.
The decrease was primarily driven by lower net sales in this segment, particularly significantly lower net sales of over-the-horizon microwave systems products.
In addition, our gross profit during the nine months ended April 30, 2018 reflects an absence of $6.7 million of BFT-1 intellectual property license fees, as discussed above.
Although we expect net sales in the fourth quarter in this segment to increase as compared to our most recent quarter, we have updated our product mix assumptions for the remainder of fiscal 2018 which now reflect lower expected sales of higher margin cyber training software solutions, offset by other anticipated command and control solution sales.
Sales cycles for cyber training software solutions are generally long and timing of related awards is difficult to predict.
As a result of our updated product mix assumptions, we believe that gross profit (both in dollars and as a percentage of net sales in this segment) will be lower in the fourth quarter as compared to our third quarter of fiscal 2018.
Overall, given the absence of BFT-1 intellectual property license fees in fiscal 2018, we expect gross profit, both in dollars and as a percentage of related net sales, to be lower than the respective metrics achieved in fiscal 2017.
However, over time, we believe the implementation of our strategy of shifting our Government Solutions segment away from bidding on large commodity service contracts and toward pursuing contracts for our niche solutions will result in higher gross margins in this segment.
Included in consolidated cost of sales for the nine months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017 are provisions for excess and obsolete inventory of $3.7 million and $1.8 million, respectively.
As discussed in "Item 2.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies - Provisions for Excess and Obsolete Inventory," we regularly review our inventory and record a provision for excess and obsolete inventory based on historical and projected usage assumptions.
Because our consolidated gross profit, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, depends on the volume of sales, sales mix and related gross profit for each individual segment, it is inherently difficult to forecast.
Nevertheless, based on expected bookings, the anticipated timing of our performance on orders and the absence of the BFT-1 intellectual property license fees, we currently expect our consolidated gross profit, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, for fiscal 2018 to be slightly lower than the percentage we achieved in fiscal 2017.
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses.
Selling, general and administrative expenses were $86.1 million and $89.6 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, representing a decrease of $3.5 million.
As a percentage of consolidated net sales, selling, general and administrative expenses were 21.4% and 22.3% for the nine months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The decrease in spending, both in dollars and as a percentage of consolidated net sales, is primarily attributable to the benefit of cost reduction actions previously initiated and, to a lesser extent, higher net sales during the nine months ended April 30, 2018, as discussed above.
We continue to evaluate and implement cost reduction initiatives to reduce unnecessary spending, reduce the size and cost of our facilities and improve our productivity.
Our Business Outlook for Fiscal 2018 does not consider the financial impact of any actions we may take.
Amortization of stock-based compensation expense recorded as selling, general and administrative expenses was $2.6 million for both the nine months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The most recent nine month period includes a $0.4 million reversal of stock-based compensation expense related to certain performance shares previously expected to be earned.
Based on our current spending plans, we expect fiscal 2018 selling, general and administrative expenses, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, to be comparable to fiscal 2017.
Research and Development Expenses.
Research and development expenses were $40.0 million and $40.4 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, representing a decrease of $0.4 million.
As a percentage of consolidated net sales, research and development expenses were 9.9% and 10.0% for the nine months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
For the nine months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017, research and development expenses of $34.5 million and $33.4 million, respectively, related to our Commercial Solutions segment and $5.3 million and $6.8 million, respectively, related to our Government Solutions segment.
The remaining research and development expenses of $0.2 million for both the nine months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, related to the amortization of stock-based compensation expense.
Whenever possible, we seek customer funding for research and development to adapt our products to specialized customer requirements.
During the nine months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017, customers reimbursed us $13.2 million and $21.9 million, respectively, which is not reflected in the reported research and development expenses, but is included in consolidated net sales with the related costs included in cost of sales.
Index
We continue to invest in enhancements to existing products as well as in new products across almost all of our product lines.
Based on our current spending plans, we expect fiscal 2018 research and development expenses, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, to be comparable to fiscal 2017.
Amortization of Intangibles.
Amortization relating to intangible assets with finite lives was $15.8 million (of which $13.3 million was for the Commercial Solutions segment and $2.5 million was for the Government Solutions segment) for the nine months ended April 30, 2018 and $17.6 million (of which $13.3 million was for the Commercial Solutions segment and $4.3 million was for the Government Solutions segment) for the nine months ended April 30, 2017.
The decrease is a result of certain intangibles that became fully amortized in fiscal 2017.
As such, we anticipate amortization of intangibles in fiscal 2018 to be lower than in fiscal 2017.
Settlement of Intellectual Property Litigation.
During the nine months ended April 30, 2017, we recorded a favorable adjustment to operating income of $12.0 million, net of estimated legal fees, to reflect a lower loss than originally estimated for a TCS intellectual property matter which was settled during that period.
There was no comparable adjustment in the nine months ended April 30, 2018.
The increase during the most recent nine month period in our Commercial Solutions segment’s operating income, in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, was primarily due to higher net sales, overall favorable product mix changes and the benefit of cost reduction actions previously initiated, as discussed above.
Given earlier than expected shipments of satellite earth station equipment to the U.S. Navy, our third quarter of fiscal 2018 is expected to be the peak quarter of operating income for this segment.
Overall, we expect fiscal 2018 operating income in our Commercial Solutions segment, in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, to increase as compared to fiscal 2017.
The decrease during the most recent nine month period in our Government Solutions segment's operating income, in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, was driven by lower net sales, most notably significantly lower over-the-horizon microwave systems sales and the absence of $6.7 million of BFT-1 intellectual property license fees, as discussed above.
Based on the strength of our third quarter performance, an assessment of timing associated with our current backlog and updated product mix assumptions for the remainder of fiscal 2018 (including lower expected sales of higher margin cyber training software solutions), we expect this segment's operating income for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 to be comparable to the amount we achieved during the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
Overall, operating income for this segment, in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, is expected to be higher in fiscal 2018 than in fiscal 2017.
Unallocated operating expenses for the nine months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017 were $13.0 million and $1.5 million, respectively.
Excluding a $0.7 million favorable warranty settlement and a $12.0 million adjustment (both as discussed above), unallocated operating expenses for the nine months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017 were $13.7 million and $13.5 million, respectively.
Unallocated operating expenses for the nine months ended April 30, 2017 includes a recovery of certain legal expenses from a third party.
Unallocated operating expenses for the nine months ended April 30, 2018 includes the benefit of cost reduction actions previously initiated.
Unallocated expenses for the nine months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017 include amortization of stock-based compensation of $2.9 million and $3.0 million, respectively.
Stock-based compensation for the nine months ended April 30, 2018 includes a reversal of $0.4 million of stock-based compensation expense related to certain performance shares that were previously expected to be earned.
Amortization of stock-based compensation expense can fluctuate from period-to-period based on the type and timing of stock-based awards.
Given the timing of anticipated fiscal 2018 awards, amortization of stock-based compensation is expected to be significantly higher in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 as compared to our most recent quarter.
Based on the type of awards currently outstanding and awards expected to be issued during the remainder of fiscal 2018, amortization of stock-based compensation is also expected to be higher in fiscal 2018 than in fiscal 2017.
Index
Looking forward, we expect our unallocated operating expenses in fiscal 2018 to significantly increase as compared to the $5.6 million of unallocated operating expenses for fiscal 2017.
During fiscal 2017, unallocated operating expenses were offset by a number of favorable adjustments throughout the fiscal year, which aggregated $18.8 million and which are more fully discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2017, as filed with the SEC.
Excluding the $18.8 million of favorable adjustments, unallocated operating expenses in fiscal 2017 would have been $24.4 million.
Given the success of our cost reduction actions taken to date and current spending plans, we expect our unallocated operating expenses in fiscal 2018 to be lower than the $24.4 million of unallocated operating expenses incurred in fiscal 2017, prior to the favorable adjustments discussed above.
On a consolidated basis, we are targeting to achieve operating income, as a percentage of net sales, of approximately 5.2% in fiscal 2018, which compares favorably with the 3.3% of consolidated net sales we achieved in fiscal 2017 (excluding the $18.8 million of favorable adjustments to operating income discussed above).
Based on the strength of our third quarter performance, an assessment of timing associated with our current backlog and updated mix assumptions for the remainder of fiscal 2018, we now expect consolidated operating income for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 to be the peak quarter for the fiscal year.
Interest Expense.
Interest expense was $7.6 million and $8.9 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The decline in interest expense primarily reflects lower total indebtedness, which declined from $235.4 million as of April 30, 2017 to $186.4 million as of April 30, 2018.
Interest expense for both periods primarily reflects interest on our Secured Credit Facility, as amended.
Based on the type, terms, amount of outstanding debt (including capital leases and other obligations) and current interest rates, we estimate that our effective interest rate (including amortization of deferred financing costs) will approximate 5.4% in fiscal 2018.
Our actual cash borrowing rate (which excludes the amortization of deferred financing costs) currently approximates 4.3%.
Interest (Income) and Other.
Interest (income) and other for both the nine months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017 was nominal.
All of our available cash and cash equivalents are currently invested in bank deposits and money market deposit accounts which, at this time, are currently yielding a blended annual interest rate of approximately 0.64%.
During the nine months ended April 30, 2018, we recorded an estimated net discrete tax benefit of $14.1 million which, as a result of Tax Reform, primarily related to the remeasurement of deferred tax liabilities associated with non-deductible amortization related to intangible assets.
Our effective tax rate for the nine months ended April 30, 2017 reflects a net discrete tax expense of less than $0.1 million.
Excluding discrete tax items for the nine months ended April 30, 2018, our estimated effective tax rate was 27.0%.
Our effective tax rate, excluding discrete tax items, for the nine months ended April 30, 2017 was 36.0%.
The decrease from 36.0% to 27.0% is principally attributable to the passage of Tax Reform which reduced the statutory income tax rate from 35.0% to 21.0%, or a blended income tax rate of approximately 27.0%.
Net Income.
During the nine months ended April 30, 2018, consolidated net income was $22.3 million as compared $8.5 million during the nine months ended April 30, 2017.
Index
The increase in consolidated Adjusted EBITDA during the nine months ended April 30, 2018 as compared to the nine months ended April 30, 2017 was primarily attributable to overall favorable product mix changes (including a higher percentage of consolidated net sales occurring in the Commercial Solutions segment as compared to the prior year period), the benefit of cost reduction actions previously taken and a favorable warranty settlement during the nine months ended April 30, 2018 that resulted in a $0.7 million reduction to cost of sales, as discussed above.
The increase in our Commercial Solutions segment's Adjusted EBITDA, in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, during the most recent nine month period, was primarily attributable to higher net sales, overall favorable product mix changes and the benefit of cost reduction actions previously initiated, as discussed above.
The decrease in our Government Solutions segment's Adjusted EBITDA, in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, during the most recent nine month period was primarily driven by lower net sales, most notably significantly lower sales of over-the-horizon microwave systems products and the absence of $6.7 million of BFT-1 intellectual property license fees, as discussed above.
As a result of the aforementioned change in product mix assumptions for the remainder of fiscal 2018, our fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 Adjusted EBITDA in this segment is expected to be lower than the amount we reported in our most recent period.
Looking forward, we anticipate consolidated Adjusted EBITDA to increase in the fourth quarter as compared to the amount we achieved in the third quarter.
Given our year-to-date performance, we are targeting fiscal 2018 Adjusted EBITDA to grow close to 6.0% over the $70.7 million we achieved in fiscal 2017.
In addition, despite the absence of $6.7 million of BFT-1 intellectual property license fees (which the U.S. Army is no longer obligated to pay us to support the BFT-1 system), we expect Adjusted EBITDA, as a percentage of fiscal 2018 consolidated net sales, to be close to 13.0%, which is slightly higher than the 12.8% we achieved in fiscal 2017.
We believe these targeted financial metrics demonstrate the strength of our business.
If order flow remains strong and we are able to achieve all of our fiscal 2018 business goals, it is possible that our fiscal 2018 Adjusted EBITDA financial metrics could be higher than our targeted amounts.
Index
Our Adjusted EBITDA is a Non-GAAP measure that represents earnings (loss) before income taxes, interest (income) and other expense, interest expense, amortization of stock-based compensation, amortization of intangibles, depreciation expense, settlement of intellectual property litigation, acquisition plan expenses or strategic alternatives analysis expenses and other.
Our definition of Adjusted EBITDA may differ from the definition of EBITDA used by other companies and therefore may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
Adjusted EBITDA is also a measure frequently requested by our investors and analysts.
We believe that investors and analysts may use Adjusted EBITDA, along with other information contained in our SEC filings, in assessing our performance and comparability of our results with other companies.
These Non-GAAP financial measures have limitations as an analytical tool as they exclude the financial impact of transactions necessary to conduct our business, such as the granting of equity compensation awards, and are not intended to be an alternative to financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
These measures are adjusted as described in the reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP in the above table, but these adjustments should not be construed as an inference that all of these adjustments or costs are unusual, infrequent or non-recurring.
Non-GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for or superior to, financial measures determined in accordance with GAAP.
Investors are advised to carefully review the GAAP financial results that are disclosed in our SEC filings.
We have not quantitatively reconciled our fiscal 2018 Adjusted EBITDA target to the most directly comparable GAAP measure because items such as stock-based compensation, adjustments to the provision for income taxes, amortization of intangibles and interest expense, which are specific items that impact these measures, have not yet occurred, are out of our control, or cannot be predicted.
For example, quantification of stock-based compensation expense requires inputs such as the number of shares granted and market price that are not currently ascertainable.
Accordingly, reconciliations to the Non-GAAP forward looking metrics are not available without unreasonable effort and such unavailable reconciling items could significantly impact our financial results.
Index
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
Our investment policy relating to our cash and cash equivalents is intended to minimize principal loss while at the same time maximize the income we receive without significantly increasing risk.
To minimize risk, we generally invest our cash and cash equivalents in money market mutual funds (both government and commercial), certificates of deposit, bank deposits, and U.S. Treasury securities.
Many of our money market mutual funds invest in direct obligations of the U.S. government, bank securities guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, certificates of deposit and commercial paper and other securities issued by other companies.
While we cannot predict future market conditions or market liquidity, we believe our investment policies are appropriate in the current environment.
Ultimately, the availability of our cash and cash equivalents is dependent on a well-functioning liquid market.
The Secured Credit Facility, as amended, is discussed below and in "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (9) - Secured Credit Facility."
In June 2016, we sold 7.1 million shares of our common stock in a public offering at a price of $14.00 per share, resulting in proceeds to us of $95.0 million, net of underwriting discounts and commissions.
As of April 30, 2018 and June 6, 2018, an aggregate registered amount of $75.0 million under our existing Shelf Registration Statement filed with the SEC remains available for sale of various types of securities, including debt.
As of April 30, 2018 and June 6, 2018, we were authorized to repurchase up to an additional $8.7 million of our common stock, pursuant to our current $100.0 million stock repurchase program.
Our stock repurchase program has no time restrictions and repurchases may be made in open-market or privately negotiated transactions and may be made pursuant to SEC Rule 10b5-1 trading plans.
There were no repurchases of our common stock during the nine months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017.
Index
On September 27, 2017, December 6, 2017 and March 7, 2018, our Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.10 per common share, which were paid on November 17, 2017, February 16, 2018 and May 18, 2018, respectively.
On June 6, 2018, our Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.10 per common share, payable on August 17, 2018 to stockholders of record at the close of business on July 16, 2018.
Future dividends remain subject to compliance with financial covenants under our Secured Credit Facility, as amended, as well as Board approval.
We continue to receive (and approve on a limited basis) requests from our customers for higher credit limits and longer payment terms.
We also continue to monitor our accounts receivable credit portfolio and have not had material negative customer credit experiences historically.
We have historically met both our short-term and long-term cash requirements with funds provided by a combination of cash and cash equivalent balances, cash generated from operating activities and cash generated from financing transactions.
Based on our anticipated level of future sales and operating income, we believe that our existing cash and cash equivalent balances, our cash generated from operating activities and amounts potentially available under the Revolving Loan Facility under our Secured Credit Facility, as amended, will be sufficient to meet both our currently anticipated short-term and long-term operating cash requirements.
Secured Credit Facility
On February 23, 2016, in connection with our acquisition of TCS, we entered into a $400.0 million secured credit facility (the "Secured Credit Facility") with a syndicate of lenders.
The Secured Credit Facility, as amended June 6, 2017 (the "June 2017 Amendment"), comprises a senior secured term loan A facility of $250.0 million (the "Term Loan Facility") and a secured revolving loan facility of up to $150.0 million, including a $25.0 million letter of credit sublimit (the "Revolving Loan Facility"), and, together with the Term Loan Facility, matures on February 23, 2021.
The proceeds of these borrowings were primarily used to finance our acquisition of TCS, including the repayment of certain existing indebtedness of TCS.
The Term Loan Facility requires mandatory quarterly repayments.
During the nine months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017, we repaid $14.7 million and $7.7 million, respectively, principal amount of borrowings under the Term Loan Facility.
Under the Revolving Loan Facility, we had outstanding balances ranging from $41.9 million to $66.8 million during nine months ended April 30, 2018.
The Revolving Loan Facility is primarily used for working capital and other general corporate purposes of the Company and its subsidiaries, including the issuance of letters of credit.
Borrowings under the Secured Credit Facility, pursuant to terms defined in the Secured Credit Facility, shall be either (i) Alternate Base Rate ("ABR") borrowings, which bear interest from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to (x) the greatest of (a) the Prime Rate in effect on such day, (b) the Federal Funds Effective Rate in effect on such day plus 0.50% per annum and (c) the Adjusted LIBO Rate on such day (or, if such day is not a business day, the immediately preceding business day) plus 1.00% per annum (provided that if the LIBO Rate is less than 1.00%, then the LIBO Rate shall be deemed to be 1.00%), plus (y) the Applicable Rate, or (ii) Eurodollar borrowings, which bear interest from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to (x) the Adjusted LIBO Rate for such interest period (provided that if the LIBO Rate is less than 1.00%, then the LIBO Rate shall be deemed to be 1.00%) plus (y) the Applicable Rate.
The Applicable Rate is determined based on a pricing grid that is dependent upon our leverage ratio as of the end of each fiscal quarter.
The Secured Credit Facility contains customary representations, warranties and affirmative covenants and customary negative covenants, subject to negotiated exceptions, on (i) liens, (ii) investments, (iii) indebtedness, (iv) significant corporate changes, including mergers and acquisitions, (v) dispositions, (vi) restricted payments, including stockholder dividends, and (vii) certain other restrictive agreements.
The Secured Credit Facility also contains certain financial covenants and customary events of default (subject to grace periods, as appropriate), such as payment defaults, cross-defaults to other material indebtedness, bankruptcy and insolvency, the occurrence of a defined change in control and the failure to observe the negative covenants and other covenants related to the operation of our business.
Index
As of April 30, 2018, our Leverage Ratio was 2.43x TTM Consolidated EBITDA compared to the maximum allowable Leverage Ratio of 3.10x TTM Consolidated EBITDA.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, the maximum allowable Leverage Ratio will decrease to 3.00x TTM Consolidated EBITDA, with no further reductions thereafter.
Our Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio as of April 30, 2018 was 2.36x compared to the minimum required Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio of 1.25x.
The Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio will not change for the remaining term of the Secured Credit Facility, as amended.
Given our expected future business performance, we anticipate maintaining compliance with the terms and financial covenants in our Secured Credit Facility, as amended, for the foreseeable future.
The obligations under the Secured Credit Facility, as amended, are guaranteed by certain of our domestic subsidiaries (the "Subsidiary Guarantors").
As collateral security for amounts outstanding under our Secured Credit Facility, as amended, and the guarantees thereof, we and our Subsidiary Guarantors have granted to an administrative agent, for the benefit of the lenders, a lien on, and first priority security interest in, substantially all of our tangible and intangible assets.
Capitalized terms used but not defined herein have the meanings set forth for such terms in the Secured Credit Facility, dated as of February 23, 2016, and the First Amendment of the Secured Credit Facility, dated as of June 6, 2017, both of which have been documented and filed with the SEC.
OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS
As of April 30, 2018, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4) of Regulation S-K.
Index
COMMITMENTS
In the normal course of business, other than as discussed below, we routinely enter into binding and non-binding purchase obligations primarily covering anticipated purchases of inventory and equipment.
We do not expect that these commitments, as of April 30, 2018, will materially adversely affect our liquidity.
As discussed further in "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (9) - Secured Credit Facility," on June 6, 2017, we entered into the June 2017 Amendment to our Secured Credit Facility.
In connection with this amendment, the balloon or final payment of the Term Loan Facility, which is not due until February 23, 2021, was reduced by $22.5 million through increased borrowings from the Revolving Loan Facility which is not required to be repaid in full until February 23, 2021.
As discussed further in "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (17) - Stockholders’ Equity," on June 6, 2018, our Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.10 per common share, payable on August 17, 2018 to stockholders of record at the close of business on July 16, 2018.
Future dividends remain subject to compliance with financial covenants under our Secured Credit Facility, as amended, as well as Board approval.
At April 30, 2018, we had $3.3 million of standby letters of credit outstanding under our Secured Credit Facility, as amended, related to our guarantees of future performance on certain customer contracts.
Such amounts are not included in the above table.
In the ordinary course of business, we include indemnification provisions in certain of our customer contracts.
Pursuant to these agreements, we have agreed to indemnify, hold harmless and reimburse the indemnified party for losses suffered or incurred by the indemnified party, including but not limited to losses related to third-party intellectual property claims.
It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount under these agreements due to a history of nominal claims in the Comtech legacy business and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement.
As discussed further in "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (18) - Legal Proceedings and Other Matters," TCS is a party to one indemnification matter in which we are incurring ongoing legal expenses and we are evaluating other indemnification claims.
Our insurance policies may not cover the cost of defending indemnification claims or providing indemnification.
As a result, pending or future claims asserted against us by a party that we have agreed to indemnify could result in legal costs and damages that could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition.
We have change in control agreements, severance agreements and indemnification agreements with certain of our executive officers and certain key employees.
All of these agreements may require payments by us, in certain circumstances, including, but not limited to, a change in control of our Company or an involuntary termination of employment without cause.
Index
Our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of April 30, 2018 includes total liabilities of $9.3 million for uncertain tax positions, including interest, any or all of which may result in a cash payment.
The future payments related to uncertain tax positions have not been presented in the table above due to the uncertainty of the amounts and timing of any potential cash settlement with the taxing authorities.
RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
We are required to prepare our condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") which is the source for all authoritative U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, which is commonly referred to as "GAAP."
The FASB ASC is subject to updates by the FASB, which are known as Accounting Standards Updates ("ASUs").
•FASB ASU No.
2016-09, which amends several aspects of the accounting for and reporting of share-based payment transactions.
Our adoption of this ASU, on August 1, 2017, did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
See "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statement - Note (12) - Stock-Based Compensation" for further information regarding our adoption of this ASU.
•FASB ASU No.
2017-09, which provides guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting in ASC Topic 718.
An entity would not be required to account for changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award as a modification if there were no changes to the award’s fair value, vesting conditions and classification.
Our adoption of this ASU on February 1, 2018 did not have any impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
Index
•FASB ASU No.
2016-13, issued in June 2016, which requires the measurement of expected credit losses for financial assets held at the reporting date to be based on historical experience, current conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts.
This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019 (our fiscal year beginning on August 1, 2020), including interim periods within those fiscal years.
All entities may adopt the amendments in this ASU earlier as of the fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years.
Except for a prospective transition approach required for debt securities for which an other-than-temporary impairment had been recognized before the effective date, an entity will apply the amendments in this ASU through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the first reporting period in which the guidance is effective (that is, on a modified-retrospective approach).
We are evaluating the impact of this ASU on our consolidated financial statements and disclosures.
•FASB ASU No.
2016-16, issued in October 2016, as amended by ASU 2018-05 in March 2018, which eliminates a prior exception and now requires an entity to recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory (for example, intellectual property and property, plant and equipment) when the transfer occurs.
These ASU's are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017 (our fiscal year beginning on August 1, 2018), and interim periods within those fiscal years and shall be applied on a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative-effect adjustment directly to retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption.
Early adoption is permitted.
Adoption of these ASU's are not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements and disclosures.
Index
•FASB ASU No.
2017-11, issued in July 2017, which provides guidance on the accounting for certain financial instruments with embedded features that result in the strike price of the instrument or embedded conversion option being reduced on the basis of the pricing of future equity offerings (commonly referred to as "down round" features).
This ASU is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2018 (our fiscal year beginning on August 1, 2019) and early adoption is permitted, including adoption in an interim period.
This ASU should be applied retrospectively in accordance with the provisions of the ASU.
We are evaluating the impact of this ASU on our consolidated financial statements and disclosures.
•FASB ASU No.
2017-12, issued in August 2017, which expands and refines hedge accounting for both nonfinancial and financial risk components and simplifies and aligns the recognition and presentation of the effects of the hedging instrument and the hedged item in the financial statements.
This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018 (our fiscal year beginning on August 1, 2019) and for interim periods therein, with early adoption permitted.
We are evaluating the impact of this ASU on the consolidated financial statements and disclosures; however, we do not expect the adoption to have any effect given that we historically have not engaged in hedge transactions.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
None.
Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures
Not applicable.
Item 6.
Exhibits
Exhibit 10.1 - 2000 Stock Incentive Plan, Amended and Restated, Effective March 6, 2018
Exhibit 31.1 - Certification pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
Exhibit 31.2 - Certification pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
Exhibit 32.1 - Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
Exhibit 32.2 - Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
Exhibit 101.INS - XBRL Instance Document
Exhibit 101.SCH - XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document
Exhibit 101.CAL - XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document
Exhibit 101.LAB - XBRL Taxonomy Extension Labels Linkbase Document
Exhibit 101.PRE - XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document
Exhibit 101.DEF - XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document
Index
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
COMTECH TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORP.
