fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying interim condensed consolidated financial statements are unaudited and have been prepared in accordance with instructions for Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
It is suggested that these financial statements be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements and the related notes thereto for the year ended December 31, 2017 included in our Annual Report (Form 10-K) filed with the SEC on March 1, 2018. j2 Global reserves for receivables it may not be able to collect.
j2 Global recognizes revenue when the Company satisfies its obligation by transferring control of the goods or services to its customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services (see Note 3 - Revenues).
The Company has made an accounting policy election to exclude from the measurement of the transaction price all taxes assessed by a governmental authority that are (i) both imposed on and concurrent with a specific revenue-producing transaction and (ii) collected by the Company from a customer.
Trading securities are those investments that the Company intends to sell within a few hours or days and are carried at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses included in investment income.
Held-to-maturity securities are those investments which the Company has the ability and intent to hold until maturity and are recorded at amortized cost.
321, Investments - Equity Securities (“ASC 321”) which requires the accounting for equity investments (other than those accounted for using the equity method of accounting) generally be measured at fair value for equity securities with readily determinable fair values.
For equity securities without a readily determinable fair value that are not accounted for by the equity method, the Company measures the equity security using cost, less impairment, if any, and plus or minus observable price changes arising from orderly transactions in the same or similar investment from the same issuer.
The Company has concluded that, as a limited partner, although the obligations to absorb losses or benefit from the gains is not insignificant, the Company does not have “power” over OCV because it does not have the ability to direct the significant decisions which impact the economics of OCV.
As a result, the Company has concluded that it will not consolidate OCV, as it is not the primary beneficiary of the OCV Fund, and will account for this investment under the equity-method of accounting.
ASC 820 provides a framework for measuring fair value and expands the disclosures required for fair value measurements of financial and non-financial assets and liabilities.
As of June 30, 2018, the carrying value of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, interest receivable, accounts payable, accrued expenses, interest payable, customer deposits and long-term debt are reflected in the financial statements at cost.
The fair value of the Company’s outstanding debt was determined using the quoted market prices of available debt instruments with similar terms and maturities.
As of the same dates, the carrying value of other long-term liabilities approximated fair value as the related interest rates approximate rates currently available to j2 Global.
Fixtures, which are comprised primarily of leasehold improvements and equipment under capital leases, are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives or for leasehold improvements, the related lease term, if less.
These costs and discounts are amortized and included in interest expense over the life of the borrowing or term of the credit facility using the effective interest method.
Ultimately, the liability will be equivalent to the amount paid, and the difference between the fair value estimate and the amount paid will be recorded in earnings.
The amount paid that is less than or equal to the liability on the acquisition date is reflected as cash used in financing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows.


item2.txt
Our Cloud Services segment generates revenues primarily from customer subscription and usage fees and from IP licensing fees.
In addition to growing our business organically, on a regular basis we acquire businesses to grow our customer bases, expand and diversify our service offerings, enhance our technologies, acquire skilled personnel and enter into new markets.
Our Cloud Services segment is driven primarily by subscription revenues that are relatively higher margin, stable and predictable from quarter to quarter with some seasonal weakness in the fourth quarter.
The Cloud Services segment also includes the results of our IP licensing business, which can vary dramatically in both revenues and profitability from period to period.
Our Digital Media segment is driven primarily by advertising revenues, has relatively higher sales and marketing expense and has seasonal strength in the fourth quarter.
The main focus of our Cloud Services offerings is to reduce or eliminate costs, increase sales and enhance productivity, mobility, business continuity and security of our customers as the technologies and devices they use evolve over time.


item3.txt
Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio.


item4.txt



part2.txt
In addition to the other information set forth in this report, before deciding to invest in j2 Global or to maintain or increase your investment, you should carefully consider the factors discussed in Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 (the “10-K Risk Factors”) as well as in other documents we file from time to time with the SEC, including the Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and any Current Reports on Form 8-K filed or to be filed by us in 2018.
Changes to these provisional amounts or any of our other estimates regarding taxes could result in material charges or credits in future reporting periods.
With the finalization of specific actions contained within the OECD’s BEPS study, many OECD countries have acknowledged their intention to implement the actions and update their local tax laws.
The extent (if any) to which countries in which we operate adopt and implement these actions could have a material adverse impact on our effective tax rate, income tax expense, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.


