fls.txt



item1.txt
GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted as permitted by the SEC.
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes should be read in conjunction with the Company's fiscal year 2019 audited financial statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 2, 2019.
In the opinion of management, the financial statements include all adjustments, including normal recurring adjustments and other adjustments, that are considered necessary for fair presentation of the Company’s financial position and results of operations.
These financial statements should also be read in conjunction with the Company’s critical accounting policies included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended February 2, 2019 and those included in this Form 10-Q below.
Accordingly, every fifth or sixth fiscal year will have a 53-week period.
This transaction is expected to close in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020.
In addition, the Company classified liabilities held for sale of $5.6 million associated with lease and other liabilities in the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheet.
Aquantia is a manufacturer of high speed transceivers which includes copper and optical physical layer products.
Subsequent to quarter end, on November 5, 2019, the Company acquired Avera Semiconductor (“Avera”), the Application Specific Integrated Circuit (“ASIC”) business of GlobalFoundries (“GlobalFoundries”) for $597.5 million in cash at closing.
An additional $90 million in cash will be paid if certain conditions are satisfied within the next 15 months.
Avera is a leading provider of Application Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC) semiconductor solutions.
The Company acquired Avera to expand its ASIC Design capabilities.
The merger consideration was funded with new debt financing.
In June 2016, the FASB issued a new standard requiring financial assets measured at amortized cost be presented at the net amount expected to be collected, through an allowance for credit losses that is deducted from the amortized cost basis.
The standard eliminates the threshold for initial recognition in current GAAP and reflects an entity’s current estimate of all expected credit losses.


item2.txt
These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof.
Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
We are a leading supplier of infrastructure semiconductor solutions, spanning the data center core to network edge.


item3.txt
With our outstanding debt following our acquisition of Cavium, we are exposed to various forms of market risk, including the potential losses arising from adverse changes in interest rates on our outstanding Term Loan and Revolving Credit Facility.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The information under the caption “Contingencies” as set forth in “Note 10 – Commitments and Contingencies” of our Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part I, Item 1, is incorporated herein by reference.
For additional discussion of certain risks associated with legal proceedings, see Part II, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” immediately below.
Investing in our common shares involves a high degree of risk.
As a result of stock price volatility, we may be subject to securities class action litigation.
On May 6, 2019, we entered into a definitive merger agreement to acquire all outstanding shares of Aquantia Corp. common stock for $13.25 per share in cash.
On November 5, 2019, we completed the acquisition, paying $597.5 million at closing.
An additional $90 million in cash will be payable if certain business conditions are satisfied by the third quarter of our fiscal 2021.
•unavailability of acquisition financing on reasonable terms or at all.
Given that our resources are limited, our decision to pursue a transaction has opportunity costs; accordingly, if we pursue a particular transaction, we may need to forgo the prospect of entering into other transactions that could help us achieve our strategic objectives.
When we decide to sell assets or a business, we may have difficulty selling on acceptable terms in a timely manner or at all.


