fls.txt



item1.txt
GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted as permitted by the SEC.
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes should be read in conjunction with the Company's fiscal year 2018 audited financial statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 3, 2018.
In the opinion of management, the financial statements include all adjustments, including normal recurring adjustments and other adjustments, that are considered necessary for fair presentation of the Company’s financial position and results of operations.
These amounts were not material to any of the periods presented.
These financial statements should also be read in conjunction with the Company’s critical accounting policies included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended February 3, 2018 and those included in this Form 10-Q below.
Accordingly, every fifth or sixth fiscal year will have a 53-week period.
In May 2014, the FASB issued a new accounting standard on the recognition of revenue from contracts with customers that superseded nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under GAAP.
The new standard requires an entity to recognize revenue from the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
The guidance addresses, in particular, contracts with more than one performance obligation, as well as the accounting for certain costs to obtain or fulfill a contract with a customer, and provides for additional disclosures with respect to revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers.
In August 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update to add or clarify guidance on the classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments in the statement of cash flows.
Previous guidance required companies to defer the income tax effects of intra-entity transfers of assets until the asset had been sold to an outside party or otherwise recognized.
The update is intended to help companies evaluate whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions or disposals of assets or businesses.
In May 2017, the FASB issued an accounting standards update that provides guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting.
Unless the changes in terms or conditions meet all three criteria outlined in the guidance, modification accounting should be applied.
In June 2016, the FASB issued a new standard requiring financial assets measured at amortized cost be presented at the net amount expected to be collected, through an allowance for credit losses that is deducted from the amortized cost basis.
The standard eliminates the threshold for initial recognition in current GAAP and reflects an entity’s current estimate of all expected credit losses.


item2.txt
These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof.
Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Our core strength is developing complex System-on-a-Chip (“SoC”) devices, leveraging our technology portfolio of intellectual property in the areas of analog, mixed-signal, digital signal processing, and embedded and standalone integrated circuits.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
The information under the caption “Contingencies” as set forth in “Note 12 – Commitments and Contingencies” of our Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part I, Item 1, is incorporated herein by reference.
For additional discussion of certain risks associated with legal proceedings, see Part II, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” immediately below.
Investing in our common shares involves a high degree of risk.
On July 6, 2018, in connection with our acquisition of Cavium, we incurred substantial indebtedness pursuant to a Credit Agreement.
The foregoing restrictions could limit our ability to plan for, or react to, changes in market conditions or our capital needs.
If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to borrow sufficient funds in the future to service our debt, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt (including the notes) or obtain additional financing.
We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance our debt, sell assets or borrow more money on terms acceptable to us, if at all.
However, we may not have sufficient funds to repurchase the notes in cash at the time of any change of control repurchase event.
Our failure to repurchase the Senior Notes upon a change of control repurchase event would be an event of default under the indenture for the Senior Notes and could cause a cross-default or acceleration under certain future agreements governing our other indebtedness.


