fls.txt



item1.txt
GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted as permitted by the SEC.
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes should be read in conjunction with the Company's fiscal year 2018 audited financial statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 3, 2018.
In the opinion of management, the financial statements include all adjustments, including normal recurring adjustments and other adjustments, that are considered necessary for fair presentation of the Company’s financial position and results of operations.
The Company's financial results for prior periods presented herein have been recast to reflect certain businesses that were classified as discontinued operations during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017 and second quarter of fiscal year 2018.
Accordingly, every fifth or sixth fiscal year will have a 53-week period.
The Merger is primarily intended to create an opportunity for the combined company to emerge as a leader in infrastructure solutions.
Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, the Company will issue 2.1757 common shares and pay $40.00 per share in cash, without interest, for each share of Cavium common stock.
The Company has obtained commitments consisting of an $850 million bridge loan commitment and a $900 million committed term loan from Goldman Sachs Bank USA and Bank of America Merrill Lynch, in each case subject to customary terms and conditions.
The transaction is not subject to any financing condition.
The Company has recorded $20.1 million of associated deferred debt and equity financing costs on the accompanying consolidated balance sheet as of May 5, 2018.
In May 2014, the FASB issued a new accounting standard on the recognition of revenue from contracts with customers that superseded nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under GAAP.
The guidance addresses, in particular, contracts with more than one performance obligation, as well as the accounting for certain costs to obtain or fulfill a contract with a customer, and provides for additional disclosures with respect to revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers.
Previous guidance required companies to defer the income tax effects of intra-entity transfers of assets until the asset had been sold to an outside party or otherwise recognized.
The update is intended to help companies evaluate whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions or disposals of assets or businesses.
In May 2017, the FASB issued an accounting standards update that provides guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting.
In June 2016, the FASB issued a new standard requiring financial assets measured at amortized cost be presented at the net amount expected to be collected, through an allowance for credit losses that is deducted from the amortized cost basis.


item2.txt
•our ability to complete the merger with Cavium, Inc. on a timely basis, or at all; •the outcome of pending or future litigation and legal and regulatory proceedings.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof.
Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
The information under the caption “Contingencies” as set forth in “Note 8 – Commitments and Contingencies” of our Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part I, Item 1, is incorporated herein by reference.
For additional discussion of certain risks associated with legal proceedings, see Part II, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” immediately below.
Investing in our common shares involves a high degree of risk.
Our proposed acquisition of Cavium, Inc. (“Cavium”) involves a number of risks, including, among others, the risk that we fail to complete the acquisition in a timely manner or at all, regulatory risks, risks associated with our use of a significant portion of our cash and our taking on significant indebtedness, other financial risks, integration risks, and risk associated with the reactions of customers, suppliers and employees.
In addition, the use of a significant portion of our cash and the incurrence of substantial indebtedness in connection with the financing of the proposed transaction will reduce our liquidity and may limit our flexibility in responding to other business opportunities and increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions.
If the Merger is not completed by September 19, 2018 (subject to a potential extension to November 19, 2018 under certain circumstances, including in the event receipt of certain required regulatory approvals has not been obtained), either Marvell or Cavium may choose to terminate the Merger Agreement.
Marvell or Cavium may also elect to terminate the Merger Agreement in certain other circumstances, or they may mutually decide to terminate the Merger Agreement at any time prior to the Effective Time, before or after obtaining shareholder approval, as applicable.
These restrictions may prevent Marvell and Cavium from making appropriate changes to their respective businesses or pursuing attractive business opportunities that may arise prior to the completion of the Merger.
The Merger Agreement limits each of Marvell’s and Cavium’s ability to pursue alternative transactions and, in certain instances, requires payment of a termination fee, which could deter a third party from proposing an alternative transaction.
There can be no assurance that Marvell will be able to secure the funds necessary to pay the cash portion of the Merger Consideration and refinance certain of Cavium’s existing indebtedness on acceptable terms, in a timely manner or at all.


