The interim financial information is unaudited but reflects all normal adjustments that are necessary to provide a fair statement of results for the interim periods presented.
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
HP implemented an organizational change to align its segment and business unit financial reporting more closely with its current business structure.
The guidance requires entities to present the changes in the total of cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and restricted cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows.
The guidance requires an entity to recognize the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers, other than inventory, when the transfer occurs.
It also requires modified retrospective transition with a cumulative catch-up adjustment to opening retained earnings in the period of adoption.
Further, credit losses on available-for-sale debt securities should be recorded through an allowance for credit losses limited to the amount by which fair value is below amortized cost.
HP is required to adopt the guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021.
Consistent with current guidance, the recognition, measurement, and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee primarily will depend on its classification.
The guidance primarily addresses certain aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of financial instruments.
In May 2014, the FASB issued guidance, which amends the existing accounting standards for revenue recognition.
The amendments may be applied retrospectively to each prior period presented (“full retrospective method”) or retrospectively with the cumulative effect recognized as of the date of initial application (“modified retrospective method”).An overview of contractual obligations, retirement and post-retirement benefit plan contributions, cost-saving plans, uncertain tax positions and off-balance sheet arrangements of our operations.
•In Personal Systems, our strategic focus is on profitable growth through hyper market segmentation with respect to enhanced innovation in multi-operating systems, multi-architecture, geography, customer segments and other key attributes.
Additionally, we are investing in premium and mobility form factors such as convertible notebooks, detachable notebooks, and mobility devices in order to meet customer preference for mobile, thinner and lighter devices.
Business printing includes delivering solutions to SMBs and enterprise customers, such as multi-function and PageWide printers, including our JetIntelligence lineup of LaserJet printers.
The shift to contractual solutions includes an increased focus on Managed Print Services and Instant Ink, which presents strong after-market supplies opportunities.
In the Graphics space, we are focused on innovations such as our Indigo and Latex product offerings.Item 1.