fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements of HP and its wholly-owned subsidiaries are prepared in conformity with United States (“U.S.”) generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”).
The interim financial information is unaudited but reflects all normal adjustments that are necessary to provide a fair statement of results for the interim periods presented.
This interim information should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2018 in the Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed on December 13, 2018.
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
On November 1, 2015, Hewlett-Packard Company completed the separation of Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company (“Hewlett Packard Enterprise”), Hewlett-Packard Company’s former enterprise technology infrastructure, software, services and financing businesses (the “Separation”).
In March 2017, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued guidance, which addresses the improvement of the presentation of net periodic pension and net periodic post-retirement benefit cost.
As a result, entities will no longer present transfers between cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows.
The guidance (Topic 740) requires an entity to recognize the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers, other than inventory, when the transfer occurs.
It also requires modified retrospective transition with a cumulative catch-up adjustment to opening retained earnings in the period of adoption.
The implementation of this guidance resulted in $353 million of net reduction to its prepaid tax asset adjusted through accumulated deficit.
In January 2016, the FASB issued guidance, which amends the existing accounting standards for the recognition and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities.
The amendments should be applied by means of a cumulative-effect adjustment to the balance sheet as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption, with other amendments related specifically to equity securities without readily determinable fair values applied prospectively.
HP adopted the new revenue standard in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 using the modified retrospective method applied to contracts that were not completed as of November 1, 2018.
Variable consideration - HP estimates the transaction price for elements of consideration which are variable in nature.
The adoption has led to certain balance sheet reclassifications pertaining to return asset and liability and repurchase reserves which impacts accounts receivable, net, inventory, other current assets and other accrued liabilities balances.
1.Identify the contract with a customer - A contract with customer exists when (i) it is approved and signed by all parties, (ii) each party’s rights and obligations can be identified, (iii) payment terms are defined, (iv) it has commercial substance and (v) the customer has the ability and intent to pay.
HP evaluates customers’ ability to pay based on various factors like historical payment experience, financial metrics and customer credit scores.


item2.txt
An overview of contractual obligations, retirement and post-retirement benefit plan contributions, cost-saving plans, uncertain tax positions and off-balance sheet arrangements of our operations.
•In Personal Systems, our strategic focus is on profitable growth through hyper market segmentation with respect to enhanced innovation in multi-operating systems, multi-architecture, geography, customer segments and other key attributes.
Additionally, we are investing in premium form factors such as convertible notebooks to meet customer preference for mobile, thinner and lighter devices.
•In Printing, our strategic growth focus is on shift to contractual solutions and Graphics, as well as expanding our footprint in the 3D printing marketplace.
The shift to contractual solutions includes an increased focus on MPS and Instant Ink, supporting our strategy of placing higher value printer units (including our A3 products and solutions) which offer strong annuity of toner and ink.
We continue to execute on our key initiatives of focusing on high-value products targeted at high usage categories and introducing new revenue delivery models.
One set of challenges relates to dynamic market trends, such as forecasted declining PC Client markets and home printing markets.
Our primary competitors are exerting competitive pressure in targeted areas and are entering new markets, our emerging competitors are introducing new technologies and business models, and our alliance partners in some businesses are increasingly becoming our competitors in others.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
Item 1A.
Risk Factors.
Companies with whom we have alliances in certain areas may be or may become our competitors in other areas.


