fls.txt



item1.txt
The interim financial information is unaudited but reflects all normal adjustments that are necessary to provide a fair statement of results for the interim periods presented.
This interim information should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2017 in the Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed on December 14, 2017.
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
HP implemented an organizational change to align its segment and business unit financial reporting more closely with its current business structure.
See Note 2, “Segment Information”, for a further discussion of HP’s segment and business unit realignments.
The guidance requires entities to present the changes in the total of cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and restricted cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows.
The guidance requires an entity to recognize the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers, other than inventory, when the transfer occurs.
It also requires modified retrospective transition with a cumulative catch-up adjustment to opening retained earnings in the period of adoption.
In June 2016, the FASB issued guidance, which requires credit losses on financial assets measured at amortized cost basis to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected, not based on incurred losses.
HP will adopt the new lease standard in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 using a modified retrospective approach.
HP is currently evaluating the impact of this guidance on the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
The guidance primarily addresses certain aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of financial instruments.
In May 2014, the FASB issued guidance, which amends the existing accounting standards for revenue recognition.
The amendments may be applied retrospectively to each prior period presented (“full retrospective method”) or retrospectively with the cumulative effect recognized as of the date of initial application (“modified retrospective method”).
HP sells to individual consumers, small and medium-sized businesses (“SMBs”) and large enterprises, including customers in the government, health and education sectors.
•Commercial PCs are optimized for use by customers, including enterprise and SMBs, with a focus on robust designs, security, serviceability, connectivity, reliability and manageability in networked environments.
Additionally, HP offers a range of services and solutions to enterprise and SMBs to help them manage the lifecycle of their PC and mobility installed base.
•Consumer PCs are optimized for consumer usage, focusing on multi-media consumption, online browsing, gaming and light productivity.


item2.txt
An overview of contractual obligations, retirement and post-retirement benefit plan contributions, cost-saving plans, uncertain tax positions and off-balance sheet arrangements of our operations.
•In Personal Systems, our strategic focus is on profitable growth through hyper market segmentation with respect to enhanced innovation in multi-operating systems, multi-architecture, geography, customer segments and other key attributes.
Additionally, we are investing in premium form factors such as convertible notebooks and detachable notebooks, in order to meet customer preference for mobile, thinner and lighter devices.
We believe that we are well positioned due to our competitive product lineup.
Business printing includes delivering solutions to SMBs and enterprise customers, such as multi-function and PageWide printers, including our JetIntelligence lineup of LaserJet printers.
The shift to contractual solutions includes an increased focus on Managed Print Services and Instant Ink, which presents strong after-market supplies opportunities.
In the Graphics space, we are focused on innovations such as our Indigo and Latex product offerings.
We plan to continue to focus on shifting the mix in the installed base to higher value units and expanding our innovative Ink, Laser, Graphics and 3D printing programs.
We continue to execute on our key initiatives of focusing on high-value products targeted at high usage categories and introducing new revenue delivery models.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.


