fls.txt



item1.txt
The interim financial information is unaudited but reflects all normal adjustments that are necessary to provide a fair statement of results for the interim periods presented.
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
In connection with the Separation, HP entered into a separation and distribution agreement, a tax matters agreement, an employee matters agreement and various other agreements with Hewlett Packard Enterprise that provide a framework for the relationships between the parties.
For more information on the impacts of these agreements, see Note 6, “Supplementary Financial Information”, Note 12, “Litigation and Contingencies” and Note 13, “Guarantees, Indemnifications and Warranties”.
The implementation of this guidance resulted in a $69 million reclassification from accumulated other comprehensive loss to accumulated deficit.
In March 2017, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued guidance, which addresses the improvement of the presentation of net periodic pension and net periodic post-retirement benefit cost.
The guidance requires entities to present the changes in the total of cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and restricted cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows.
The guidance (Topic 740) requires an entity to recognize the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers, other than inventory, when the transfer occurs.
It also requires modified retrospective transition with a cumulative catch-up adjustment to opening retained earnings in the period of adoption.
The amendments should be applied by means of a cumulative-effect adjustment to the balance sheet as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption, with other amendments related specifically to equity securities without readily determinable fair values applied prospectively.
In May 2014, the FASB issued guidance, which amends the existing accounting standards for revenue recognition.
Variable consideration - HP estimates the transaction price for elements of consideration which are variable in nature.
HP evaluates customers’ ability to pay based on various factors like historical payment experience, financial metrics and customer credit scores.
HP reduces the transaction price at the time of revenue recognition for customer and distributor programs and incentive offerings, rebates, promotions, other volume-based incentives and expected returns.
5.Recognize revenue when (or as) the performance obligation is satisfied - Revenue is recognized when, or as, a performance obligation is satisfied by transferring control of a promised good or service to a customer.
HP considers several factors to determine whether it is acting as a principal or an agent, most notably whether HP is the primary obligor to the customer, has established its own pricing and has inventory and credit risks.
HP recognizes revenue from fixed-price support, maintenance and other service contracts over time depicting the pattern of service delivery and recognizes the costs associated with these contracts as incurred.
Such contract assets are insignificant to HP’s Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.


item2.txt
An overview of contractual obligations, retirement and post-retirement benefit plan contributions, cost-saving plans, uncertain tax positions and off-balance sheet arrangements of our operations.
•In Personal Systems, our strategic focus is on profitable growth through hyper market segmentation with respect to enhanced innovation in multi-operating systems, multi-architecture, geography, customer segments and other key attributes.
Additionally, we are investing in end point services and solutions.
We believe that we are well positioned due to our competitive product lineup.
•In Printing, our strategic growth focus is on shift to contractual solutions and Graphics, as well as expanding our footprint in the 3D printing marketplace.
The shift to contractual solutions includes a continued focus on MPS and Instant Ink, supporting our strategy of placing higher value printer units (including our A3 products and solutions) which offer strong annuity of toner and ink.
We continue to execute on our key initiatives of focusing on high-value products targeted at high usage categories and introducing new revenue delivery models.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
Item 1A.
Risk Factors.
Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described in Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2018, Part II, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2019, and Part II, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended April 30, 2019, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common and capital stock.


