fls.txt



item1.txt
The interim financial information is unaudited but reflects all normal adjustments that are necessary to provide a fair statement of results for the interim periods presented.
This interim information should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2018 in the Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed on December 13, 2018.
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
On November 1, 2015, Hewlett-Packard Company completed the separation of Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company (“Hewlett Packard Enterprise”), Hewlett-Packard Company’s former enterprise technology infrastructure, software, services and financing businesses (the “Separation”).
For more information on the impacts of these agreements, see Note 6, “Supplementary Financial Information”, Note 12, “Litigation and Contingencies” and Note 13, “Guarantees, Indemnifications and Warranties”.
In March 2017, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued guidance, which addresses the improvement of the presentation of net periodic pension and net periodic post-retirement benefit cost.
Additionally, the guidance requires that companies present the other components of the net periodic benefit cost separately from the line item that includes service cost and any other subtotal of income from operations.
The amendments in this guidance are to be applied retrospectively for presentation in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Earnings.
As a result, entities will no longer present transfers between cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows.
In October 2016, the FASB issued guidance, which amends the existing accounting for Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory.
The guidance (Topic 740) requires an entity to recognize the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers, other than inventory, when the transfer occurs.
It also requires modified retrospective transition with a cumulative catch-up adjustment to opening retained earnings in the period of adoption.
The implementation of this guidance resulted in $353 million of net reduction to its prepaid tax asset adjusted through accumulated deficit.
Variable consideration - HP estimates the transaction price for elements of consideration which are variable in nature.
1.Identify the contract with a customer - A contract with customer exists when (i) it is approved and signed by all parties, (ii) each party’s rights and obligations can be identified, (iii) payment terms are defined, (iv) it has commercial substance and (v) the customer has the ability and intent to pay.
HP evaluates customers’ ability to pay based on various factors like historical payment experience, financial metrics and customer credit scores.
If the transaction price includes a variable amount, HP estimates the amount it expects to be entitled to using either the expected value or most likely amount method.


item2.txt
An analysis of changes in our cash flows and a discussion of our liquidity and financial condition.
An overview of contractual obligations, retirement and post-retirement benefit plan contributions, cost-saving plans, uncertain tax positions and off-balance sheet arrangements of our operations.
•In Personal Systems, our strategic focus is on profitable growth through hyper market segmentation with respect to enhanced innovation in multi-operating systems, multi-architecture, geography, customer segments and other key attributes.
Additionally, we are investing in premium form factors such as convertible notebooks to meet customer preference for mobile, thinner and lighter devices.
We believe that we are well positioned due to our competitive product lineup.
•In Printing, our strategic growth focus is on shift to contractual solutions and Graphics, as well as expanding our footprint in the 3D printing marketplace.
The shift to contractual solutions includes an increased focus on MPS and Instant Ink, supporting our strategy of placing higher value printer units (including our A3 products and solutions) which offer strong annuity of toner and ink.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
Information with respect to this item may be found in Note 12, “Litigation and Contingencies” to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors.
Our business faces many challenges we must address.
A third set of challenges relates to business model changes and our go-to-market execution.


