fls.txt



item1.txt
Activision primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including full-game and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Activision products.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, there were no significant changes to our accounting policies, except for our adoption of a new revenue accounting standard as discussed below.
Refer to Note 2 contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 for a summary of our other significant accounting policies.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued new accounting guidance related to revenue recognition.
The new standard replaces all current U.S. GAAP guidance on this topic, eliminating all industry-specific guidance and providing a unified model to determine when and how revenue is recognized.
The core principle is that a company should recognize revenue upon the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
On January 1, 2018, we adopted the new accounting standard and related amendments (collectively, the “new revenue accounting standard”).
Refer to Note 3 for the impact of adoption on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
When control of the promised products and services is transferred to our customers, we recognize revenue in the amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for these products and services.
· recognizing revenue when, or as, we satisfy performance obligations by transferring the promised goods or services.
We recognize revenues from the sale of our products after both (1) control of the products has been transferred to our customers and (2) underlying performance obligations have been satisfied.
Revenues from product sales are recognized after deducting the estimated allowance for returns and price protection, which are accounted for as variable consideration when estimating the amount of revenue to recognize.
For our software products that include both offline functionality (i.e., do not require an Internet connection to access) and significant online functionality, such as titles for the Call of Duty franchise, we evaluate whether the license of our intellectual property and the online functionality are distinct and separable.


item2.txt
· the Activision Blizzard Distribution (“Distribution”) business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistics, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware.
· consolidated net revenues decreased 7% to $1.51 billion, while consolidated operating income increased 3% to $265 million, as compared to consolidated net revenues of $1.62 billion and consolidated operating income of $257 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017; 
· revenues from digital online channels were $1.28 billion, or 84% of consolidated net revenues, as compared to $1.35 billion, or 84% of consolidated net revenues, for the three months ended September 30, 2017; 
· consolidated net revenues increased 3% to $5.12 billion, and consolidated operating income increased 19% to $1.29 billion, as compared to consolidated net revenues of $4.97 billion and consolidated operating income of $1.09 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2017; 
· revenues from digital online channels were $4.00 billion, or 78% of consolidated net revenues, as compared to $4.05 billion, or 81% of consolidated net revenues, for the nine months ended September 30, 2017; 
· operating margin was 25.3%, as compared to 21.9% for the nine months ended September 30, 2017; 
· diluted earnings per common share increased 35% to $1.51, as compared to $1.12 for the nine months ended September 30, 2017.
Since certain of our games are hosted online or include significant online functionality that represents a separate performance obligation, we defer the transaction price allocable to the online functionality from the sale of these games and recognize the attributable revenues over the relevant estimated service periods, which are generally less than a year.
Net revenues and operating income for the three months ended September 30, 2018, include a net effect of $146 million and $89 million, respectively, from the deferral of net revenues and related cost of revenues.
Net revenues and operating income for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, include a net effect of $692 million and $468 million, respectively, from the recognition of deferred net revenues and related cost of revenues.
· lower net bookings due to fewer content releases in 2018 from our Diablo and Bubble Witch franchises as compared to 2017.
MAUs are the number of individuals who accessed a particular game in a given month.
In addition, due to technical limitations, for Activision and King, an individual who accesses the same game on two platforms or devices in the relevant period would be counted as two users.
For Blizzard, an individual who accesses the same game on two platforms or devices in the relevant period would generally be counted as a single user.
Average MAUs decreased by 7 million, or 2%, for the three months ended September 30, 2018, as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2018.


item3.txt
We transact business in many different foreign currencies and may be exposed to financial market risk resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1.


