fls.txt



item1.txt
Includes the net effects of capitalization, deferral, and amortization of share-based compensation expense.
Effective December 31, 2018, Activision and Bungie mutually agreed to terminate their publishing relationship related to the Destiny franchise.
Blizzard primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including subscriptions, full-game, and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Blizzard products.
Blizzard also includes the activities of the Overwatch LeagueTM, the first major global professional esports league with city-based teams, and our Major League Gaming (“MLG”) business, which is responsible for various esports events and serves as a multi-platform network for Activision Blizzard esports content.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”) for interim reporting.
Accordingly, the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts and operations of the Company.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, we identified an error principally related to the initial recognition of global intangible low-taxed income of foreign subsidiaries income taxes which should have been recorded in the three months and year ended December 31, 2018.
Income tax expense for the three months and year ended December 31, 2018 should have been reduced by $35 million.
This amount is not material to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2018, and we will revise our 2018 consolidated financial statements to correct this matter in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2019.
The new standard, among other things, requires a lessee to classify a lease as either an operating or financing lease, and to recognize a lease liability and a right-of-use (“ROU”) asset for its leases.
On January 1, 2019, we adopted the new lease accounting standard.
As a result, we have updated our significant accounting policy disclosure to include our accounting policy for leases under the new standard.


item2.txt
We develop and distribute content and services on video game consoles, personal computers (“PC”s), and mobile devices.
In connection with the 2008 business combination by and among the Company (then known as Activision, Inc.), Vivendi S.A, and Vivendi Games, Inc., then an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi S.A., we were renamed Activision Blizzard, Inc. Activision Publishing, Inc.
(“Activision”), is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive software products and entertainment content, particularly for the console platform.
Activision’s key product franchise is Call of Duty®, a first-person shooter for the console and PC platforms.
(“Bungie”) to publish games in the Destiny franchise.
Effective December 31, 2018, Activision and Bungie mutually agreed to terminate their publishing relationship related to the Destiny franchise.
Blizzard primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including subscriptions, full-game, and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Blizzard products.
King’s games are free to play; however, players can acquire in-game items, either with virtual currency or real currency, and we continue to focus on in-game advertising as a growing source of additional revenue.
•the Activision Blizzard Distribution (“Distribution”) business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistics, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware.
During the three months ended June 30, 2019, Activision released CrashTM Team Racing Nitro-Fueled and Blizzard released the latest expansion to Hearthstone—Rise of ShadowsTM.
We monitor net bookings as a key operating metric in evaluating the performance of our business.
Net bookings is the net amount of products and services sold digitally or sold-in physically in the period, and includes license fees, merchandise, and publisher incentives, among others.
Net bookings is equal to net revenues excluding the impact from deferrals.


item3.txt
To mitigate our foreign currency risk resulting from our foreign currency-denominated monetary assets, liabilities, and earnings and our foreign currency risk related to functional currency-equivalent cash flows resulting from our intercompany transactions, we periodically enter into currency derivative contracts, principally forward contracts.
The fair values of our foreign currency contracts are estimated based on the prevailing exchange rates of the various hedged currencies as of the end of the period.


item4.txt



part2.txt
On June 17, 2019, we received a reassessment from the STA (“Reassessment”) which changed the Initial Decision based on a revision of the transfer pricing approach reflected in King’s 2016 Swedish tax return and removal of the alleged intercompany asset transfer that was the basis of the Initial Decision.


