fls.txt



item1.txt
Activision primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including full-game and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Activision products.
Blizzard primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including subscriptions, full-game, and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Blizzard products.
As noted above, Blizzard also includes the activities of our MLG business, which is responsible for the operations of the Overwatch League, along with other esports events, and will also continue to serve as a multi-platform network for other Activision Blizzard esports content.
· the Activision Blizzard Distribution (“Distribution”) business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistics, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware.
For the three months ended March 31, 2018, the beginning and ending cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash reported within our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows include restricted cash of $7 million and $6 million, respectively.
For the three months ended March 31, 2017, our beginning and ending cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash reported within our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows include restricted cash of $17 million and $13 million, respectively.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, there were no significant changes to our accounting policies, except for our adoption of a new revenue accounting standard as discussed below.
Refer to Note 2 contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 for a summary of our other significant accounting policies.
In May 2014, the FASB issued new accounting guidance related to revenue recognition.
The new standard replaces all current U.S. GAAP guidance on this topic and eliminates all industry-specific guidance, providing a unified model to determine when and how revenue is recognized.
The core principle is that a company should recognize revenue upon the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
On January 1, 2018, we adopted the new accounting standard and related amendments (the “new revenue accounting standard”).
As a result, we have updated our significant accounting policy disclosure for revenue recognition herein.
Refer to Note 3 for the impact of adoption on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
When control of the promised products and services is transferred to our customers, we recognize revenue in the amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for these products and services.


item2.txt
As part of the continued implementation of our esports strategy, we instituted changes to our internal organization and reporting structure during 2017 such that the Major League Gaming (“MLG”) business operates as a division of Blizzard Entertainment, Inc.
Activision primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including full-game and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Activision products.
· the Activision Blizzard Distribution (“Distribution”) business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistics, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware.
The Company’s financial results for 2018 are presented in accordance with a new revenue accounting standard that was adopted in the first quarter of 2018.
Further information about our adoption of the new standard is provided in Notes 2 and 3 of the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
· consolidated net revenues increased 14% to $1.97 billion, while consolidated operating income increased 21% to $595 million, as compared to consolidated net revenues of $1.73 billion and consolidated operating income of $493 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017; 
· revenues from digital online channels were $1.46 billion, or 74% of consolidated net revenues, as compared to $1.39 billion, or 80% of consolidated net revenues, for the three months ended March 31, 2017; 
· operating margin was 30.3%, as compared with 28.6% for the three months ended March 31, 2017; 
Since certain of our games are hosted online or include significant online functionality that represents a separate performance obligation, we defer the transaction price allocable to the online functionality from the sale of these games and recognize the attributable revenues over the relevant estimated service periods, which are generally less than a year.
Net revenues and operating income for the three months ended March 31, 2018, include a net effect of $581 million and $373 million, respectively, from the recognition of deferred net revenues and related cost of revenues.
The increase was partially offset by lower net bookings from Overwatch, which was released in May 2016.
In addition, due to technical limitations, for Activision and King, an individual who accesses the same game on two platforms or devices in the relevant period would be counted as two users.


item3.txt
We transact business in many different foreign currencies and may be exposed to financial market risk resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1.


