This Management's Discussion and Analysis ("MD&A") is intended to provide an understanding of Vishay's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows by focusing on changes in certain key measures from period to period.
The MD&A should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements and accompanying Notes included in Item 1.
This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties.
Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, particularly in Item 1A.
"Risk Factors," filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 15, 2019.
From time to time, information provided by us, including but not limited to statements in this report, or other statements made by or on our behalf, may contain “forward-looking” information within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Words such as “believe,” “estimate,” “will be,” “will,” “would,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “plan,” “project,” “intend,” “could,” “should,” or other similar words or expressions often identify forward-looking statements.
Such statements are based on current expectations only, and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, many of which are beyond our control.
Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results, performance, or achievements may vary materially from those anticipated, estimated, or projected.
Among the factors that could cause actual results to materially differ include: general business and economic conditions; delays or difficulties in implementing our cost reduction strategies; delays or difficulties in expanding our manufacturing capacities; an inability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; uncertainty related to the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates; competition and technological changes in our industries; difficulties in new product development; difficulties in identifying suitable acquisition candidates, consummating a transaction on terms which we consider acceptable, and integration and performance of acquired businesses; changes in applicable domestic and foreign tax regulations and uncertainty regarding the same; changes in U.S. and foreign trade regulations and tariffs and uncertainty regarding the same; changes in applicable accounting standards and other factors affecting our operations, markets, capacity to meet demand, products, services, and prices that are set forth in our filings with the SEC, including our annual reports on Form 10-K and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
