Part II, Item 7A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk," of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on February 16, 2018, describes our exposure to market risks.
There have been no material changes to our market risks since December 31, 2017.
 Item 4.
Controls and Procedures
Conclusion Regarding the Effectiveness of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the period covered by this report that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
PART II - OTHER INFORMATION
 Item 1.
Legal Proceedings
Item 3 of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on February 16, 2018 and Item 1 of Part II of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on May 8, 2018 describe certain of our legal proceedings.
Except as described below, there have been no material developments to the legal proceedings previously disclosed.
On September 17, 2018, the Korea Fair Trade Commission ("KFTC") announced a fine of approximately $32 thousand against Vishay Polytech Co., Ltd. ("VPC"), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, for violations of applicable antitrust laws.
Concurrently, the KFTC issued a corrective order prohibiting VPC from engaging in similar activities again and referred the matter to the Korean Ministry of Justice for further review.
The conduct attributable to VPC occurred prior to the acquisition of that entity from Holy Stone Enterprises Co. Ltd. ("Holy Stone") in 2014.
Holy Stone has agreed to indemnify VPC for losses, including penalties and expenses associated with the decision described above.
 Item 1A.
Risk Factors
Except as described below, there have been no material changes to the risk factors we previously disclosed under Item 1A of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on February 16, 2018.
The liquidity of any trading market that currently exists for our convertible senior debentures may be adversely affected by the repurchase of $220.0 million and $69.1 million principal amounts of the convertible debentures due 2040 and due 2042, respectively, during the second fiscal quarter of 2018, and the holders of the remaining convertible debentures may be more likely to present their convertible debentures for conversion.
Following the repurchase of convertible debentures by us in June 2018, 20% and approximately 54% of the original principal amount of the original issuances of convertible debentures due 2040 and due 2042, respectively, remain outstanding.
Both the convertible debentures due 2040 and due 2042 are currently convertible at the option of the holders.
As a result of the repurchase, the trading market for the remaining convertible debentures may be less liquid and more sporadic and prices may fluctuate significantly depending on the volume of trading in the debentures.
This decreased liquidity may also make it more likely that the holders of the remaining debentures will present their debentures for conversion.
At the direction of our Board of Directors, we intend, upon conversion, to repay the principal amounts of the convertible senior debentures, due 2040, due 2041, and due 2042, and the convertible senior notes, due 2025 in cash and settle any additional amounts in shares of Vishay common stock.
Our debt levels have increased and may continue to increase, which could adversely affect the perception in the financial markets of our financial condition.
The recorded and principal amount of our outstanding debt increased from approximately $370.5 million and $725.0 million, respectively as of December 31, 2017 to approximately $588.6 million and $885.9 million, respectively, as of September 29, 2018, primarily due to the issuance of the convertible senior notes due 2025.
The carrying value of our convertible debt will continue to increase as the discount associated with the convertible instruments are amortized.
Additionally, we and our subsidiaries may incur substantial additional debt in the future, subject to the conditions contained in our existing debt instruments, some of which may be secured debt.
The marketplace could react negatively to our current debt levels which in turn could affect our share price and also make it more difficult to obtain financing in the future.
Prior to three months before the respective maturity dates of our convertible senior debentures due 2040, 2041, and 2042, the holders of the debentures may only convert the debentures under specific circumstances as defined in the indentures governing the debentures.
Prior to six months before the maturity date of our convertible senior notes due 2025, the holders of the notes may only convert the notes under specific circumstances as defined in the indentures governing the notes.
As of June 30, 2018, our convertible senior debentures due 2040 and 2042 are convertible (See Note 6 to our consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1).
Regardless of current convertibility of the debentures, GAAP requires convertible debentures to be included in the calculation of diluted EPS using either the "If Converted" or the "Treasury Stock Method" depending on our intent and ability to settle the debentures upon repurchase or conversion.
The application of the "If Converted" method generally results in significantly more potentially dilutive securities compared to the "Treasury Stock Method."
Pursuant to the indentures governing the respective debentures and notes, we have the right to pay the conversion value or purchase price for the debentures in cash, Vishay common stock, or a combination of both.
At the direction of our Board of Directors, we intend, upon conversion, to repay the principal amounts of the debentures and notes and settle any additional amounts in shares of Vishay common stock.
Accordingly, the debentures and notes are included in the diluted EPS computation using the "Treasury Stock" method" rather than the "If Converted" method.
If we were unable to employ the "Treasury Stock" method due to increased debt levels or changes in intentions, the number of potentially dilutive securities could increase significantly.
Changes in U.S. trade policies, and related factors beyond our control, may adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations.
Our business is subject to risks associated with U.S. and foreign legislation and regulations relating to imports, including quotas, duties, tariffs or taxes, and other import charges or restrictions, which could adversely affect our operations and our ability to import products.
The U.S. has taken actions that impact U.S. trade with China, including imposing tariffs on certain goods manufactured in China and imported into the U.S., including certain of our products.
Such actions may impact our competitiveness and adversely affect the demand for these products, or if those costs cannot be passed on to our customers, could adversely impact our results of operations for affected segments and the Company as a whole.
Further changes in U.S. trade policy could trigger additional retaliatory actions by affected countries.
If these consequences are realized, it could result in a general economic downturn or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business.
Most of our operating cash is generated by our non-U.S. subsidiaries, and our U.S. parent company and U.S. subsidiaries have significant payment obligations.
We generate a significant amount of cash and profits from our non-U.S. subsidiaries.
For several years, substantially all of our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments were held by subsidiaries outside of the United States.
These previously deferred foreign earnings may now be repatriated to the United States without additional U.S. federal taxation.
However, any such repatriation could incur withholding and other foreign taxes in the source and intervening foreign jurisdictions, and certain U.S. state taxes.
During 2018, we repatriated over $700 million to the United States, net of these withholding and other foreign taxes.
We used some of these repatriated amounts to reduce the outstanding balance of the credit facility to zero and to repay certain intercompany indebtedness.
Following these repatriation transactions and the uses of such cash described above, approximately 40% of our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments are in the United States.
Our unused revolving credit facility provides us with additional U.S. liquidity.
The transition tax under the TCJA, cash dividends to stockholders, share repurchases, convertible debt repurchases, and principal and interest payments on our debt instruments need to be paid by the U.S. parent company, Vishay Intertechnology, Inc. Our U.S. subsidiaries have other operating cash needs.
If our U.S. cash and cash equivalents and short-term investment and other liquidity sources are inadequate to satisfy these obligations, we may be required to repatriate additional cash to the United States.
If we are unable to repatriate adequate cash to the United States to satisfy these obligations, it could materially and adversely affect our overall financial condition, results of operations and our liquidity.
 Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
Not applicable.
 Item 3.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities
Not applicable.
 Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures
Not applicable.
 Item 5.
Other Information
On October 30, 2018, the Company received a waiver to its credit agreement, to allow cash payments to repurchase certain convertible debt instruments.
 Item 6.
Exhibits
  31.1   Certification pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 - Dr. Gerald Paul, Chief Executive Officer.
  31.2   Certification pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 - Lori Lipcaman, Chief Financial Officer.
  32.1   Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 – Dr. Gerald Paul, Chief Executive Officer.
  32.2   Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 – Lori Lipcaman, Chief Financial Officer.
  101   Interactive Data File (Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, for the quarterly period ended September 29, 2018, furnished in XBRL (eXtensible Business Reporting Language)).
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
