Item 1.
Financial Statements
VISHAY INTERTECHNOLOGY, INC.
Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets
Continues on following page.
VISHAY INTERTECHNOLOGY, INC.
Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets (continued)
See accompanying notes.
VISHAY INTERTECHNOLOGY, INC.
Consolidated Condensed Statements of Operations
See accompanying notes.
VISHAY INTERTECHNOLOGY, INC.
Consolidated Condensed Statements of Comprehensive Income
See accompanying notes.
VISHAY INTERTECHNOLOGY, INC.
Consolidated Condensed Statements of Cash Flows
See accompanying notes.
VISHAY INTERTECHNOLOGY, INC.
Consolidated Condensed Statement of Equity
See accompanying notes.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 1 – Basis of Presentation
The accompanying unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements of Vishay Intertechnology, Inc. ("Vishay" or the "Company") have been prepared in accordance with the instructions to Form 10-Q and therefore do not include all information and footnotes necessary for presentation of financial position, results of operations, and cash flows required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") for complete financial statements.
The information furnished reflects all normal recurring adjustments which are, in the opinion of management, necessary for a fair summary of the financial position, results of operations, and cash flows for the interim periods presented.
The financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements filed with the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
The results of operations for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full year.
The Company reports interim financial information for 13-week periods beginning on a Sunday and ending on a Saturday, except for the first fiscal quarter, which always begins on January 1, and the fourth fiscal quarter, which always ends on December 31.
The four fiscal quarters in 2018 end on March 31, 2018, June 30, 2018, September 29, 2018, and December 31, 2018, respectively.
The four fiscal quarters in 2017 ended on April 1, 2017, July 1, 2017, September 30, 2017, and December 31, 2017, respectively.
Recently Adopted Accounting Guidance
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU No.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).
The ASU is the result of a convergence project between the FASB and the International Accounting Standards Board to clarify the principles for recognizing revenue and to develop a common revenue standard for GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards.
The ASU removes inconsistencies and weaknesses in revenue requirements; provides a more robust framework for addressing revenue issues; improves comparability of revenue recognition practices across entities, industries, jurisdictions, and capital markets; provides more useful information to users of financial statements through expanded disclosure requirements; and simplifies the preparation of financial statements by reducing the number of requirements to which an entity must refer.
The Company retrospectively adopted the ASU on January 1, 2018.
The adoption of the ASU did not have a material impact on the Company's results of operations.
See Note 2 and "Changes in Accounting Policies" below.
Recently Issued Accounting Guidance
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-02, Leases (Topic 842).
The ASU is the result of a project between the FASB and the International Accounting Standards Board to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by recognizing lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements.
Upon adoption of the ASU, the Company will recognize lease assets and liabilities for its operating leases which are not currently reported on its consolidated balance sheets.
The ASU is effective for the Company for interim and annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2019, with the ability to early adopt.
The Company is currently evaluating the effect of the ASU on its lease contracts.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Changes in Accounting Policies
Except for the changes described in "Recently Adopted Accounting Guidance" above and in this section below, the Company has consistently applied the accounting policies described in its Note 1 to its audited consolidated financial statement included in its annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, to all periods presented in these consolidated condensed financial statements.
Revenue Recognition
The Company adopted ASU 2014-09 as of January 1, 2018 using the full retrospective method.
As a result, the Company has changed its accounting policy for revenue recognition.
The details of significant changes and quantitative impact of the changes are disclosed below.
 Service-type warranty performance obligations
ASU 2014-09 introduces the concept of service-type warranties, which represent separate performance obligations.
Upon adoption of ASU No.
2014-09, the Company considers its warranty obligations as service-type warranties and allocates a portion of the estimated consideration to be received from the related contract to the service-type warranty performance obligation and recognizes the related revenue over the warranty period.
The impact of accounting for service-type warranties as separate performance obligations was not significant in the retrospective adoption period and is included in the tables below.
See further discussion of the warranty obligations in Note 2.
Custom products
The Company previously recognized revenue when the sales process was completed, which generally occurred when the product was delivered and risk of loss was transferred to the customer.
Upon adoption of ASU 2014-09, the Company analyzes its contractual arrangements to determine whether the promise in the contract to construct and transfer goods to the customer is a performance obligation that will be satisfied over time or at a point in time.
When the Company's performance does not create an asset with an alternative use to the Company and the Company has an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, the Company transfers control of a good or service over time and, therefore, satisfies a performance obligation and recognizes revenue over time.
The Company has a limited number of contracts for custom products that meet the criteria to recognize revenue over time.
The dollar amount of these custom products did not materially change during the retrospective adoption period.
The Company recorded a cumulative-effect adjustment of $2,210 to January 1, 2016 retained earnings (accumulated deficit) and recorded adjustments to its consolidated balance sheets due to the impact of recognizing revenue for certain custom products over time rather than at a point in time.
ASU 2014-09 provides several transition practical expedients.
The Company has not restated completed contracts that begin and end in the same annual reporting period; used the transaction price at the date the contract was completed rather than estimating variable consideration amounts in the comparative reporting periods; has not disclosed the amount of the transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations and an explanation of when the Company expects to recognize the amount as revenue for the reporting periods presented prior to January 1, 2016; and has not retrospectively restated the contract for modifications made prior to January 1, 2016 and instead reflected the aggregate effect of all modifications when identifying the satisfied and unsatisfied performance obligations, determining the transaction price and allocating the transaction price pursuant to the transition practical expedients available.
Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits
The Company retrospectively adopted ASU 2017-07 as of January 1, 2018.
As a result, the Company has changed its accounting policy for pension and other postretirement benefits costs as detailed below.
ASU 2017-07 amends the income statement presentation requirements of net periodic benefit cost of defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans.
The service cost component of net periodic pension cost is recorded in the same line item or items as other compensation costs arising from services rendered by the pertinent employees during the period, and other components of net periodic pension cost are included on a separate line within other income (expense).
The Company reclassified net benefit costs other than the current service component previously reported as cost of goods sold and selling, general, and administrative expenses to other expenses for each quarter in the retrospective adoption period in the table below.
The Company also reclassified the $79,321 U.S. pension settlement charges recorded for the year ended December 31, 2016 to other expenses.
See the impact of this change in the tables below.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Reclassifications
In addition to the changes due to the retrospective adoption of certain aspects of new accounting guidance described above, certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current financial statement presentation.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 2 – Revenue Recognition
As of January 1, 2018, the Company recognizes revenue from contracts with customers in accordance with ASU 2014-09.
The Company has framework agreements with many of its customers that contain the terms and conditions of future sales, but do not create enforceable rights or obligations.
Per ASU 2014-09, the Company's contracts are the combined purchase orders and the terms and conditions contained within such framework agreements.
Payment terms for the Company's sales are generally less than sixty days.
Substantially all of the Company's receivables are collected within twelve months of the transfer of products to the customer and the Company expects this to continue going forward.
The Company applies the practical expedient within ASU 2014-09 to all of its contracts with payment terms less than or equal to twelve months and does not recognize a financing component of the transaction price.
Revenue is measured based on the consideration specified in contracts with customers, and excludes any sales incentives and amounts collected on behalf of third parties.
The Company recognizes revenue when it satisfies its performance obligations.
The Company has a broad line of products that it sells to original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"), electronic manufacturing services ("EMS") companies, which manufacture for OEMs on an outsourcing basis, and independent distributors that maintain large inventories of electronic components for resale to OEMs and EMS companies.
The Company has and will continue to recognize revenue on sales to distributors when the distributor takes control of the products ("sold-to" model).
The Company has agreements with distributors that allow distributors a limited credit for unsaleable products, which it terms a "scrap allowance."
Consistent with industry practice, the Company also has a "stock, ship and debit" program whereby it considers requests by distributors for credits on previously purchased products that remain in distributors' inventory, to enable the distributors to offer more competitive pricing.
In addition, the Company has contractual arrangements whereby it provides distributors with protection against price reductions initiated by the Company after product is sold by the Company to the distributor and prior to resale by the distributor.
The Company recognizes the estimated variable consideration to be received as revenue and records a related accrued expense for the consideration not expected to be received, based upon its estimate of product returns, scrap allowances, "stock, ship and debit" credits, and price protection credits that will be attributable to sales recorded through the end of the period.
The Company makes these estimates based upon sales levels to its distributors during the period, inventory levels at the distributors, current and projected market conditions, and historical experience under the programs.
While the Company utilizes a number of different methodologies to estimate the accruals, all of the methodologies take into account sales levels to distributors during the relevant period, inventory levels at the distributors, current and projected market trends and conditions, recent and historical activity under the relevant programs, changes in program policies, and open requests for credits.
These procedures require the exercise of significant judgments.
The Company believes that it has a reasonable basis to estimate future credits under the programs.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Company pays commissions to external sales representatives on a per-sale basis.
The Company applies the practical expedient available within ASU 2014-09 to all commissions paid as the future amortization period of the asset that the Company otherwise would have recognized is one year or less.
Accordingly, these commissions are expensed as incurred.
Internal staff are not paid commissions.
The Company has elected to account for shipping and handling as activities to fulfill the promise to transfer the product even if the shipping and handling activities are performed after the customer obtains control.
The Company does not evaluate whether shipping and handling activities are promised services to its customers.
If control transfers and revenue is recognized for the related products before the shipping and handling activities occur, the related costs of those shipping and handling activities is accrued.
The Company applies this accounting policy election consistently to similar types of transactions.
See disaggregated revenue information in Note 10.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 3 – Acquisition Activities
As part of its growth strategy, the Company seeks to expand through targeted acquisitions of other manufacturers of electronic components that have established positions in major markets, reputations for product quality and reliability, and product lines with which the Company has substantial marketing and technical expertise.
Had this acquisition occurred as of the beginning of the periods presented in these consolidated condensed financial statements, the pro forma statements of operations would not be materially different than the consolidated condensed statements of operations presented.
The remaining fluctuation in the goodwill account balance is due to foreign currency translation.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 4 – Restructuring and Related Activities
The Company places a strong emphasis on controlling its costs and combats general price inflation by continuously improving its efficiency and operating performance.
When the ongoing cost containment activities are not adequate, the Company takes actions to maintain its cost competitiveness.
The Company incurred significant restructuring costs in its past to reduce its cost structure.
Historically, the Company's primary cost reduction technique was through the transfer of production from high-labor-cost countries to lower-labor-cost countries.
Since 2013, the Company's cost reduction programs have primarily focused on reducing fixed costs, including selling, general, and administrative expenses.
As of December 31, 2017, the Company's restructuring programs were substantially completed.
MOSFETs Enhanced Competitiveness Program
Over a period of approximately 2 years and in a series of discrete steps, the manufacture of wafers for a substantial share of products was transferred into a more cost-efficient fab.
As a consequence, certain other manufacturing previously occurring in-house was transferred to third-party foundries.
This transfer of production was substantially completed by the end of the first fiscal quarter of 2016.
As a result of a review of the financial results and outlook for the Company's MOSFETs segment following the completion of production transfers, the Company determined to implement further cost reductions for the MOSFETs segment.
In November 2016, the Company announced an extension of the MOSFETs Enhanced Competitiveness Program.
The revised program included various cost reduction initiatives, primarily the transfer of all remaining manufacturing operations at its Santa Clara, California facility to other Vishay facilities or third-party subcontractors.
Severance benefits are generally paid in a lump sum at cessation of employment.
The entire liability is considered current and is included in other accrued expenses in the accompanying consolidated condensed balance sheets.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Global Cost Reduction Programs
Severance benefits are generally paid in a lump sum at cessation of employment, though some are being paid in installments.
The current portion of the liability is $4,222 and is included in other accrued expenses in the accompanying consolidated condensed balance sheets.
The non-current portion of the liability is included in other liabilities in the accompanying consolidated condensed balance sheets.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 5 – Income Taxes
The provision for income taxes consists of provisions for federal, state, and foreign income taxes.
The effective tax rates for the periods ended March 31, 2018 and April 1, 2017 reflect the Company's expected tax rate on reported income from continuing operations before income tax and tax adjustments.
The Company operates in a global environment with significant operations in various jurisdictions outside the United States.
Accordingly, the consolidated income tax rate is a composite rate reflecting the Company's earnings and the applicable tax rates in the various jurisdictions where the Company operates.
On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "TCJA") was enacted in the United States.
The TCJA represents sweeping changes in U.S. tax law.
Among the numerous changes in tax law, the TCJA permanently reduced the U.S. corporate income tax rate to 21% beginning in 2018; imposed a one-time transition tax on deferred foreign earnings; established a partial territorial tax system by allowing a 100% dividends received deduction on qualifying dividends paid by foreign subsidiaries; limited deductions for net interest expense; and expanded the U.S. taxation of foreign earned income to include "global intangible low-taxed income" ("GILTI") of foreign subsidiaries.
The TCJA represents the first significant change in U.S. tax law in over 30 years.
As permitted by SAB No.
118, the tax expense recorded in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2017 due to the enactment of the TCJA was considered "provisional," based on reasonable estimates.
The Company is continuing to collect and analyze detailed information about the earnings and profits of its non-U.S. subsidiaries, the related taxes paid, the amounts which could be repatriated, the foreign taxes which may be incurred on repatriation, and the associated impact of these items under the TCJA.
The Company may record adjustments to refine those estimates during the measurement period, as additional analysis is completed.
No adjustments were recorded during the first fiscal quarter of 2018.
Furthermore, the Company is continuing to evaluate the TCJA's provisions and may prospectively adjust its financial and capital structure and business practices accordingly.
Due to the changes in taxation of dividends received from foreign subsidiaries, and also because of the need to finance the payment of the transition tax, the Company made the determination during the fourth fiscal quarter of 2017 that certain unremitted foreign earnings in Israel, Germany, Austria, and France are no longer permanently reinvested, and recorded provisional tax expense of $213,000 to accrue the incremental foreign income taxes and withholding taxes payable to foreign jurisdictions assuming the hypothetical repatriation to the United States of these approximately $1,100,000 of available foreign earnings.
Due to the existence of the foreign cash taxes payable at the source, the Company expects to actually repatriate these amounts at a measured pace over several years, and may decide to ultimately not repatriate some of these amounts.
The Company terminated its previous cash repatriation program and recorded a provisional income tax benefit to reverse the associated deferred tax liability as a result of this planned repatriation.
No amounts were repatriated pursuant to this program in the first fiscal quarter of 2018.
The Company's effective tax rate for the period ended March 31, 2018 was negatively impacted by certain provisions of the TCJA.
The provisions of the TCJA are interrelated and the impact of any specific provision cannot be isolated.
The Company operates at a pre-tax loss in the U.S. and the reduction in the federal tax rate reduces the tax benefit recorded.
In addition, the inclusion of GILTI income and the limitation and the deductibility of interest expense increased the effective tax rate.
The Company has elected to account for GILTI tax in the period in which it is incurred, and therefore did not provide any deferred taxes in the consolidated financial statements at December 31, 2017.
Income tax expense for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2018, includes tax expense of $1,316 for the periodic remeasurement of the deferred tax liability recorded for the foreign taxes associated with the cash repatriation program described above, primarily due to the foreign currency effects.
Income tax expense for the fiscal quarter ended April 1, 2017 included a tax benefit of $968 for the periodic remeasurement of the deferred tax liability recorded for the cash repatriation program that was terminated as a result of the enactment of the TCJA.
During the three fiscal months ended March 31, 2018, the liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits increased by $568 on a net basis, due to increases for tax positions taken in the current period, interest, and foreign currency effects.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 6 – Long-Term Debt
Convertible Senior Debentures
Vishay currently has three issuances of convertible senior debentures outstanding with generally congruent terms.
The quarterly cash dividend program of the Company results in adjustments to the conversion rate and effective conversion price for each issuance of the Company's convertible senior debentures effective as of the ex-dividend date of each cash dividend.
The convertible debentures due 2042 became convertible subsequent to the December 31, 2016 evaluation of the conversion criteria, and have remained convertible for each subsequent quarterly evaluation through the March 31, 2018 evaluation, due to the sale price of Vishay's common stock exceeding 130% of the conversion price for the applicable periods.
The convertible debentures due 2040 became convertible subsequent to the September 30, 2017 evaluation of the conversion criteria, and have remained convertible for each subsequent quarterly evaluation through the March 31, 2018 evaluation, due to the sale price of Vishay's common stock exceeding 130% of the conversion price for the applicable periods.
The debentures due 2040 and due 2042 will remain convertible until June 30, 2018, at which time the conversion criteria will be reevaluated.
At the direction of its Board of Directors, the Company intends, upon future conversion of any of the convertible senior debentures, to repay the principal amounts of the convertible senior debentures in cash and settle any additional amounts in shares of Vishay common stock.
The excess of the amount that the Company would pay to the holders of the debentures due 2040 and due 2042 upon conversion over the carrying value of the liability component of the debentures currently convertible has been reclassified as temporary equity on the consolidated condensed financial statements.
The Company intends to finance the principal amount of any converted debentures using borrowings under its credit facility.
Accordingly, the debt component of the convertible debentures due 2040 and due 2042 continues to be classified as a non-current liability on the consolidated condensed balance sheets.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
GAAP requires an issuer to separately account for the liability and equity components of the instrument in a manner that reflects the issuer's nonconvertible debt borrowing rate when interest costs are recognized in subsequent periods.
The resulting discount on the debt is amortized as non-cash interest expense in future periods.
Interest is payable on the debentures semi-annually at the cash coupon rate; however, the remaining debt discount is being amortized as additional non-cash interest expense using an effective annual interest rate equal to the Company's estimated nonconvertible debt borrowing rate at the time of issuance.
In addition to ordinary interest, contingent interest will accrue in certain circumstances relating to the trading price of the debentures and under certain other circumstances beginning ten years subsequent to issuance.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 7 – Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)
The Company recognized a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings (accumulated deficit) of $1,801 for the cumulative change in fair value of available-for-sale equity investments previously recognized in other comprehensive income due to the adoption of ASU 2016-01.
See Note 1 for further information.
Reclassifications of pension and other post-retirement actuarial items out of AOCI are included in the computation of net periodic benefit cost.
See Note 8 for further information.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 8 – Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits
The Company maintains various retirement benefit plans.
Defined Benefit Pension Plans
Other Postretirement Benefits
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 9 – Stock-Based Compensation
The Company has various stockholder-approved programs which allow for the grant of stock-based compensation to officers, employees, and non-employee directors of the Company.
The amount of compensation cost related to stock-based payment transactions is measured based on the grant-date fair value of the equity instruments issued.
The Company determines compensation cost for restricted stock units ("RSUs") and phantom stock units based on the grant-date fair value of the underlying common stock adjusted for expected dividends paid over the required vesting period for non-participating awards.
Compensation cost is recognized over the period that an officer, employee, or non-employee director provides service in exchange for the award.
The Company recognizes compensation cost for RSUs that are expected to vest and records cumulative adjustments in the period that the expectation changes.
The Company currently expects all performance-based RSUs to vest and all of the associated unrecognized compensation cost for performance-based RSUs presented in the table above to be recognized.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2007 Stock Incentive Plan
The Company's 2007 Stock Incentive Program (the "2007 Program"), as amended and restated, permits the grant of up to 6,500,000 shares of restricted stock, unrestricted stock, RSUs, stock options, and phantom stock units, to officers, employees, and non-employee directors of the Company.
Such instruments are available for grant until May 20, 2024.
Restricted Stock Units
Phantom Stock Units
The 2007 Program authorizes the grant of phantom stock units to the extent provided for in the Company's employment agreements with certain executives.
Each phantom stock unit entitles the recipient to receive a share of common stock at the individual's termination of employment or any other future date specified in the applicable employment agreement.
Phantom stock units participate in dividend distribution on the same basis as the Company's common stock and Class B common stock.
Dividend equivalents are issued in the form of additional units of phantom stock.
The phantom stock units are fully vested at all times.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 10 – Segment Information
Vishay's reporting segments generate substantially all of their revenue from product sales to the industrial, automotive, telecommunications, computing, consumer products, power supplies, military and aerospace, and medical end markets.
A small portion of revenues is from royalties.
The Company evaluates business segment performance on operating income, exclusive of certain items ("segment operating income").
Only dedicated, direct selling, general, and administrative expenses of the segments are included in the calculation of segment operating income.
The Company's calculation of segment operating income excludes such selling, general, and administrative costs as global operations, sales and marketing, information systems, finance and administration groups, as well as restructuring and severance costs, goodwill and long-lived asset impairment charges, and other items.
Management believes that evaluating segment performance excluding such items is meaningful because it provides insight with respect to intrinsic operating results of the Company.
These items represent reconciling items between segment operating income and consolidated operating income.
Business segment assets are the owned or allocated assets used by each business.
The Company also regularly evaluates gross profit by segment to assist in the analysis of consolidated gross profit.
The Company considers segment operating income to be the more important metric because it more fully captures the business operations of the segments.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 11 – Earnings Per Share
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Company's convertible debt instruments are only convertible for specified periods upon the occurrence of certain events.
The convertible debentures due 2042 became convertible subsequent to the December 31, 2016 evaluation of the conversion criteria, and have remained convertible for each subsequent quarterly evaluation through the March 31, 2018 evaluation.
The convertible debentures due 2040 became convertible subsequent to the September 30, 2017 evaluation of the conversion criteria, and have remained convertible for each subsequent quarterly evaluation through the March 31, 2018 evaluation.
In periods that the debentures are not convertible, the certain conditions which could trigger conversion of the remaining debentures have been deemed to be non-substantive, and accordingly, the Company assumes the conversion of these instruments in its diluted earnings per share computation during periods in which they are dilutive.
At the direction of its Board of Directors, the Company intends, upon conversion, to repay the principal amounts of the convertible senior debentures, due 2040, due 2041, and due 2042, in cash and settle any additional amounts in shares of Vishay common stock.
Accordingly, the debentures are included in the diluted earnings per share computation using the "treasury stock method" (similar to options and warrants) rather than the "if converted method" otherwise required for convertible debt.
Under the "treasury stock method," Vishay calculates the number of shares issuable under the terms of the debentures based on the average market price of Vishay common stock during the period, and that number is included in the total diluted shares figure for the period.
If the average market price is less than $12.91, no shares are included in the diluted earnings per share computation for the convertible senior debentures due 2040, if the average market price is less than $17.69, no shares are included in the diluted earnings per share computation for the convertible senior debentures due 2041, and if the average market price is less than $10.98, no shares are included in the diluted earnings per share computation for the convertible senior debentures due 2042.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 12 – Fair Value Measurements
An asset or liability's classification within the hierarchy is determined based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement.
There have been no changes in the classification of any financial instruments within the fair value hierarchy in the periods presented.
The Company maintains non-qualified trusts, referred to as "rabbi" trusts, to fund payments under deferred compensation and non-qualified pension plans.
Rabbi trust assets consist primarily of marketable securities, classified as available-for-sale and company-owned life insurance assets.
The marketable securities held in the rabbi trusts are valued using quoted market prices on the last business day of the period.
The company-owned life insurance assets are valued in consultation with the Company's insurance brokers using the value of underlying assets of the insurance contracts.
The fair value measurement of the marketable securities held in the rabbi trust is considered a Level 1 measurement and the measurement of the company-owned life insurance assets is considered a Level 2 measurement within the fair value hierarchy.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Company holds investments in equity securities that are intended to fund a portion of its pension and other postretirement benefit obligations outside of the United States.
The investments are valued based on quoted market prices on the last business day of the period.
The fair value measurement of the investments is considered a Level 1 measurement within the fair value hierarchy.
The convertible senior debentures, due 2040, due 2041, and due 2042, issued by the Company on November 9, 2010, May 13, 2011, and May 31, 2012, respectively, contain embedded derivative features that GAAP requires to be bifurcated and remeasured each reporting period.
Each quarter, the change in the fair value of the embedded derivative features, if any, is recorded in the consolidated condensed statements of operations.
The Company uses a derivative valuation model to derive the value of the embedded derivative features.
Key inputs into this valuation model are the Company's current stock price, risk-free interest rates, the stock dividend yield, the stock volatility, and the debentures' credit spread over LIBOR.
The first three aforementioned inputs are based on observable market data and are considered Level 2 inputs while the last two aforementioned inputs are unobservable and thus require management's judgment and are considered Level 3 inputs.
The fair value measurement is considered a Level 3 measurement within the fair value hierarchy.
The Company enters into forward contracts with highly-rated financial institutions to mitigate the foreign currency risk associated with intercompany loans denominated in a currency other than the legal entity's functional currency.
The notional amount of the forward contracts was $100,000 and $100,000 as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
The forward contracts are short-term in nature and are expected to be renewed at the Company's discretion until the intercompany loans are repaid.
We have not designated the forward contracts as hedges for accounting purposes, and as such the change in the fair value of the contracts is recognized in the consolidated condensed statements of operations as a component of other income (expense).
The Company estimates the fair value of the forward contracts based on applicable and commonly used pricing models using current market information and is considered a Level 2 measurement within the fair value hierarchy.
The value of the forward contracts was immaterial as of March 31, 2018.
The Company does not utilize derivatives or other financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes.
The fair value of the long-term debt, excluding the derivative liabilities and deferred financing costs, at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 is approximately $1,015,400 and $1,071,200, respectively, compared to its carrying value, excluding the derivative liabilities and deferred financing costs, of $414,342 and $379,033, respectively.
The Company estimates the fair value of its long-term debt using a combination of quoted market prices for similar financing arrangements and expected future payments discounted at risk-adjusted rates, which are considered Level 2 inputs.
At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the Company's short-term investments were comprised of time deposits with financial institutions that have maturities that exceed 90 days from the date of acquisition; however they all mature within one year from the respective balance sheet dates.
The Company's short-term investments are accounted for as held-to-maturity debt instruments, at amortized cost, which approximates their fair value.
The investments are funded with excess cash not expected to be needed for operations prior to maturity; therefore, the Company believes it has the intent and ability to hold the short-term investments until maturity.
At each reporting date, the Company performs an evaluation to determine if any unrealized losses are other-than-temporary.
No other-than-temporary impairments have been recognized on these securities, and there are no unrecognized holding gains or losses for these securities during the periods presented.
There have been no transfers to or from the held-to-maturity classification.
All decreases in the account balance are due to returns of principal at the securities' maturity dates.
Interest on the securities is recognized as interest income when earned.
At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the Company's cash and cash equivalents were comprised of demand deposits, time deposits with maturities of three months or less when purchased, and money market funds.
The Company estimates the fair value of its cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments using level 2 inputs.
Based on the current interest rates for similar investments with comparable credit risk and time to maturity, the fair value of the Company's cash, cash equivalents, and held-to-maturity short-term investments approximate the carrying amounts reported in the consolidated condensed balance sheets.
The Company's financial instruments also include accounts receivable, short-term notes payable, and accounts payable.
The carrying amounts for these financial instruments reported in the consolidated condensed balance sheets approximate their fair values.
 Item 1.
Legal Proceedings
Item 3 of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on February 16, 2018, describe certain of our legal proceedings.
Except as described below, there have been no material developments to the legal proceedings previously disclosed.
On March 21, 2018, the European Commission announced a fine of approximately €782,000 against Vishay Polytech Co., Ltd. ("VPC"), Holy Stone Holdings Co., Ltd. and Holy Stone Enterprise Co., Ltd., and concluded that those companies, along with other capacitor manufacturers, participated in meetings and had bilateral communications in which sensitive business information had been exchanged in violation of European Competition Law.
The conduct attributable to VPC occurred prior to the acquisition of that entity by Vishay in 2014.
Holy Stone has agreed to indemnify Vishay and VPC for losses, including penalties and expenses associated with the investigation described above.
 Item 1A.
Risk Factors
There have been no material changes to the risk factors we previously disclosed under Item 1A of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on February 16, 2018.
