item1.txt
On September 1, 2018, we adopted FASB ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which replaced most existing revenue recognition guidance.
flows arising from client contracts, including judgments and changes in estimates.
The impact of adopting the new standard for the three months ended November 30, 2018 was an increase to revenues of approximately $11.4 million.
The impact on our balance sheet as of November 30, 2018 was not material with the exception of the classification of $2.1 billion of receivables and $572.3 million of contract assets, which were previously classified as Unbilled services, net.
A performance obligation is a promise in a contract to transfer a distinct good or service to the client and is the unit of accounting in Topic 606.
A contract’s transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation and recognized as revenue when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied.
For contracts with multiple performance obligations, we allocate the contract’s transaction price to each performance obligation based on the relative standalone selling price.
The primary method used to estimate standalone selling price is the expected cost plus a margin approach, under which we forecast our expected costs of satisfying a performance obligation and then add an appropriate margin for that distinct good or service based on margins for similar services sold on a standalone basis.
If a contract modification results in the addition of performance obligations priced at a standalone selling price or if the post-modification services are distinct from the services provided prior to the modification, the modification is accounted for separately.
If the modified services are not distinct, they are accounted for as part of the existing contract.
Our revenues are derived from contracts for outsourcing services, technology integration consulting services and non-technology consulting services.
These contracts have different terms based on the scope, performance obligations and complexity of the engagement, which frequently require us to make judgments and estimates in recognizing revenues.
Revenues are generally recognized on outsourcing contracts over time because our clients benefit from the services as they are performed.
Outsourcing contracts require us to provide a series of distinct services each period over the contract term.
Revenues from unit-priced contracts are recognized as transactions are processed.
When contractual billings represent an amount that corresponds directly with the value provided to the client (e.g., time-and-materials contracts), revenues are recognized as amounts become billable in accordance with contract terms.
Revenues are generally recognized over time as our clients benefit from the services as they are performed, or the contract includes termination provisions enabling payment for performance completed to date.
When contractual billings represent an amount that corresponds directly with the value provided to the client (e.g. time-and-materials contracts), revenues are recognized as amounts become billable in accordance with contract terms.
Revenues from fixed-price contracts are generally recognized using costs incurred to date relative to total estimated costs at completion to measure progress toward satisfying our performance obligations.
For non-technology integration consulting contracts which do not qualify to recognize revenue over time, we recognize revenues at a point in time when we satisfy our performance obligations and the client obtains control of the promised good or service.
Adjustments in contract estimates related to performance obligations satisfied or partially satisfied in prior periods increased our revenues by approximately $53 million for the three months ended November 30, 2018.
adjustment on any one contract was material to our Consolidated Financial Statements for the three months ended November 30, 2018.
The timing of revenue recognition, billings and cash collections results in Receivables, Contract assets, and Deferred revenues (Contract liabilities) on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
When we bill or receive payments from our clients before revenue is recognized, we record Contract liabilities.
Contract assets and liabilities are reported on our Consolidated Balance Sheet on a contract-by-contract basis at the end of each reporting period.
For some outsourcing contracts, we receive payments for transition or set-up activities, which are deferred and recognized as revenue as the services are provided.
Deferred transition revenues were $571,060 and $581,395 as of November 30, 2018 and August 31, 2018, respectively, and are included in Non-current deferred revenues.
Deferred transition costs were $689,353 and $690,868 as of November 30, 2018 and August 31, 2018, respectively, and are included in Deferred contract costs.
Revenues recognized in the three months ended November 30, 2018, that were included in Deferred revenues as of September 1, 2018 were $1.8 billion.
For a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the change in estimated fair value of a hedging instrument is recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss as a separate component of Shareholders’ Equity and is reclassified into Cost of services in the Consolidated Income Statements during the period in which the hedged transaction is recognized.
For information related to derivatives designated as cash flow hedges that were reclassified into Cost of services during the three months ended November 30, 2018 and 2017, as well as those expected to be reclassified into Cost of services in the next 12 months, see Note 4 (Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss) to these Consolidated Financial Statements.
Realized gains or losses and changes in the estimated fair value of foreign currency forward contracts that have not been designated as hedges were net losses of $48,983 and $9,534 for the three months ended November 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Gains and losses on these contracts are recorded in Other income (expense), net in the Consolidated Income Statements and are offset by gains and losses on the related hedged items.


item2.txt
We use the term “in local currency” so that certain financial results may be viewed without the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of business performance.
Financial results “in local currency” are calculated by restating current period activity into U.S. dollars using the comparable prior year period’s foreign currency exchange rates.
•Our business depends on generating and maintaining ongoing, profitable client demand for our services and solutions, including through the adaptation and expansion of our services and solutions in response to ongoing changes in technology and offerings, and a significant reduction in such demand or an inability to respond to the evolving technological environment could materially affect our results of operations.
•Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.
This change has no impact on operating income but does affect ratios calculated as a percentage of revenue, such as operating margin.
As we are a global company, our revenues are denominated in multiple currencies and may be significantly affected by currency exchange rate fluctuations.
If the U.S. dollar weakens against other currencies, resulting in favorable currency translation, our revenues, revenue growth and results of operations in U.S. dollars may be higher.
If the U.S. dollar strengthens against other currencies, resulting in unfavorable currency translation, our revenues, revenue growth and results of operations in U.S. dollars may be lower.
The U.S. dollar strengthened against various currencies during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2018, resulting in unfavorable currency translation and U.S. dollar revenue growth that was approximately 2% lower than our revenue growth in local currency.
Assuming that exchange rates stay within recent ranges for the remainder of fiscal 2019, we estimate that our full fiscal 2019 revenue growth in U.S. dollars will be approximately 3% lower in U.S. dollars than our revenue growth in local currency.
Gross margin (Revenues less Cost of services as a percentage of Revenues) for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was 31.1%, compared with 31.0% for the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Sales and marketing and General and administrative costs as a percentage of revenues were 15.7% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared with 15.8% for the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
For the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the same period in fiscal 2018, Sales and marketing costs as a percentage of revenues were flat, and General and administrative costs as a percentage of revenues decreased 10 basis points.
•North America revenues increased 10% in local currency, driven by the United States.
•Europe revenues increased 6% in local currency, led by Italy, Ireland, the United Kingdom, Germany and Spain.
•Growth Markets revenues increased 17% in local currency, driven by Japan, as well as Brazil, China and Singapore.
Operating expenses for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased $590 million, or 7%, over the first quarter of fiscal 2018, and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 84.6% from 84.8% during this period.
Cost of services for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased $488 million, or 7%, over the first quarter of fiscal 2018, and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 68.9% from 69.0% during this period.
Gross margin for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased to 31.1% from 31.0% during this period.
Sales and marketing expense for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased $69 million, or 7%, over the first quarter of fiscal 2018, and remained flat as a percentage of revenues at 10.1% during this period.
General and administrative costs for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased $34 million, or 6%, over the first quarter of fiscal 2018, and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 5.6% from 5.7% during this period.
•Products operating income increased primarily due to revenue growth.
•Resources operating income increased primarily due to revenue growth and higher consulting contract profitability.
The effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was 19.8%, compared with 20.5% for the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
The $0.17 increase in our diluted earnings per share was due to an increase of $0.16 from higher revenues and operating results, $0.02 from a lower effective tax rate and $0.01 from lower weighted average shares outstanding.
We believe that our current and longer-term working capital, investments and other general corporate funding requirements will be satisfied for the next twelve months and thereafter through cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, from our borrowing facilities and future financial market activities.
See Note 1 (Basis of Presentation) and Note 2 (Revenues) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 1, “Financial Statements.” Note 2 includes updates to our revenue policy as result of the implementation of FASB ASU No. 2014-09.


item4.txt
Our management, with the participation of our principal executive officer and our principal financial officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Exchange Act) as of the end of the period covered by this report.
Based on that evaluation, the principal executive officer and the principal financial officer of Accenture plc have concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this report, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level.


