fls.txt
Forward-looking statements are identified by the use of the words “would,” “could,” “will,” “may,” “expect,” “believe,” “should,” “anticipate,” “if,” “future,” “intend,” “plan,” “estimate,” “potential,” “target,” “seek,” or “continue” and similar words and phrases, including the negatives of these terms, or other variations of these terms, that denote future events.


item1.txt
The condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Power Integrations, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the “Company”), and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
Significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The results for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of the results for the entire year.
No material changes have been made to the Company's significant accounting policies disclosed in Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Pronouncements, in its Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed on February 14, 2018, for the year ended December 31, 2017.
The accounting by lessors will remain largely unchanged from that applied under previous U.S. GAAP.
The Company is required to adopt the amendments in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, with early adoption permitted.
The amendments require a modified retrospective transition approach to recognize and measure leases at the beginning of the earliest period presented.
The Company's cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities are classified within Level 1 or Level 2 of the fair-value hierarchy because they are valued using quoted market prices, broker or dealer quotations, or alternative pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency.
Stock-based compensation expense in the three months ended March 31, 2017, was approximately $5.0 million (comprising approximately $3.5 million related to RSUs, $1.2 million related to PSUs and PRSUs and $0.3 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan).
Under the performance-based awards program, the Company grants awards in the performance year in an amount equal to twice the target number of shares to be issued if the maximum performance metrics are met.
The performance metrics of this program are annual targets consisting of a combination of net revenue, non-GAAP operating income and strategic goals.
The fair value of these PSUs is determined using the fair value of the Company’s common stock on the date of the grant, reduced by the discounted present value of dividends expected to be declared before the awards vest.
In January 2018, it was determined that approximately 79,000 shares of the PSUs granted in 2017, vested in aggregate and were released to the Company’s employees and executives in the first quarter of 2018.
Expense associated with these awards, net of estimated forfeitures, is recorded throughout the year depending on the number of shares expected to vest based on progress toward the performance target.
The Company is organized and operates as one reportable segment, the design, development, manufacture and marketing of integrated circuits and related components for use primarily in the high-voltage power-conversion market.
The Company’s chief operating decision maker, the Chief Executive Officer, reviews financial information presented on a consolidated basis for purposes of making operating decisions and assessing financial performance.
These distributors sell the Company’s products to a broad, diverse range of end users, including OEMs and merchant power supply manufacturers.


item2.txt
See also “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” at the beginning of this report.
Power supplies incorporating our products are used with all manner of electronic products including mobile phones, computing and networking equipment, appliances, electronic utility meters, power tools, industrial controls, and lighting applications that utilize light-emitting diodes (LEDs), and “smart-home,” or “internet of things” applications such as networked thermostats, power strips and other building-automation and security devices.
Our products also improve the energy efficiency of power converters, helping our customers meet the increasingly stringent efficiency standards that have been adopted around the world for many electronic products, and improving the efficiency of renewable-energy systems, electric vehicles and other high-power applications.
For example, our EcoSmart™ technology drastically reduces the amount of energy consumed by electronic products when they are not in use, helping our customers comply with regulations that seek to curb this so-called “standby” energy consumption.
Also, our gate-driver products are critical components in energy-efficient DC motor drives, high-voltage DC transmission systems, renewable-energy installations and electric transportation applications.
•Increase the size of our addressable market.
Prior to 2010 our addressable market consisted of AC-DC applications with up to about 50 watts of output, a served available market (“SAM”) opportunity of approximately $1.5 billion.
Also contributing to our SAM expansion has been the emergence of new applications within the power ranges that our products can address.
For example, applications such as LED lighting, “smart” utility meters, battery-powered lawn equipment and bicycles, and USB power ports (installed alongside traditional AC wall outlets) can incorporate our products; the increased use of electronic intelligence and controls in consumer appliances has also enhanced our SAM.


item3.txt
We consider cash invested in highly liquid financial instruments with a remaining maturity of three months or less at the date of purchase to be cash equivalents.
We invest in high-credit quality issuers and, by policy, limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer.


item4.txt
there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions, regardless of how remote.


part2.txt
Information with respect to this item may be found in Note 12, Legal Proceedings and Contingencies, in our Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which information is incorporated herein by reference.


