fls.txt



item1.txt
The condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Power Integrations, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the “Company”), and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
Significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The results for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of the results for the entire year.
The accounting by lessors will remain largely unchanged from that applied under previous U.S. GAAP.
The Company is required to adopt the amendments in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, with early adoption permitted.
The Company adopted the new standards in the first quarter of 2019, effective January 1, 2019, using the optional transition method, under which the new standards were applied prospectively rather than restating the prior periods presented.
The Company elected the practical expedients under the transition guidance, which includes the use of hindsight in determining the lease term and the practical expedient package to not reassess whether any expired or existing contracts are or contain leases, to not reassess the classification of any expired or existing leases, and to not reassess initial direct costs for any existing leases.
Upon adoption, the Company recognized both right-of-use assets and corresponding lease liabilities of approximately $7.3 million and $7.2 million, respectively, on the condensed consolidated balance sheet.
The difference between the right-of-use assets and lease liabilities was due to prepaid rent.
There was no impact on the condensed consolidated statement of income or the condensed consolidated statement of cash flows.
The Company's cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities are classified within Level 1 or Level 2 of the fair-value hierarchy because they are valued using quoted market prices, broker or dealer quotations, or alternative pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency.
As of September 30, 2019, and December 31, 2018, the Company evaluated the nature of the investments with a loss position, which were primarily high-quality corporate securities, and determined the unrealized losses were not other-than-temporary.
In the nine months ended September 30, 2019, stock-based compensation expense was approximately $15.0 million, comprising approximately $13.2 million related to RSUs, $0.6 million related to PSUs and PRSUs and $1.2 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan.
The performance metrics of this program are annual targets consisting of a combination of net revenue, non-GAAP operating income and strategic goals.
The fair value of these PSUs is determined using the fair value of the Company’s common stock on the date of the grant, reduced by the discounted present value of dividends expected to be declared before the awards vest.
PRSUs are granted in an amount equal to twice the target number of shares to be issued if the maximum performance metrics are met.
Expense associated with these awards, net of estimated forfeitures, is recorded throughout the year depending on the number of shares expected to vest based on progress toward the performance target.


item2.txt
We also supply high-voltage LED drivers, which are AC-DC ICs specifically designed for lighting applications that utilize light-emitting diodes.
Our products also improve the energy efficiency of power converters, helping our customers meet the increasingly stringent efficiency standards that have been adopted around the world for many electronic products, and improving the efficacy of renewable-energy systems, electric vehicles and other high-power applications.
We currently address AC-DC applications with power outputs up to approximately 500 watts, gate-driver applications of approximately ten kilowatts and higher, and motor-drive applications up to approximately 300 watts.
We also continue to expand our sales and application-engineering staff and our network of distributors, as well as our offerings of technical documentation and design-support tools and services to help customers use our products.
These tools and services include our PI Expert™ design software, which we offer free of charge, and our transformer-sample service.
For example, our EcoSmart™ technology drastically reduces the amount of energy consumed by electronic products when they are not in use, helping our customers comply with regulations that seek to curb this so-called “standby” energy consumption.
Also, our gate-driver products are critical components in energy-efficient DC motor drives, high-voltage DC transmission systems, solar and wind energy systems and electric transportation applications.
•Increase the size of our addressable market.
Prior to 2010 our addressable market consisted of AC-DC applications with up to about 50 watts of output, a served available market (“SAM”) opportunity of approximately $1.5 billion.
In 2018 we introduced our BridgeSwitch™ motor-driver ICs, as described above.


item3.txt
Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio.
We consider cash invested in highly liquid financial instruments with a remaining maturity of three months or less at the date of purchase to be cash equivalents.


item4.txt



part2.txt



