The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements of Comtech Telecommunications Corp. and its subsidiaries ("Comtech," "we," "us," or "our") as of and for the three and nine months ended April 30, 2019 and 2018 are unaudited.
Certain reclassifications have been made to previously reported condensed consolidated financial statements to conform to the current fiscal period presentation.
On February 28, 2019, we completed our acquisition of Solacom Technologies Inc. ("Solacom"), pursuant to the Arrangement Agreement, dated as of January 7, 2019, by and among Solacom, Comtech and Solar Acquisition Corp., a Canadian corporation and a direct, wholly-owned subsidiary of Comtech.
The acquisition has a preliminary purchase price for accounting purposes of $32,934,000, of which $27,328,000 was settled in cash and $5,606,000 was settled with the issuance of 208,669 shares of Comtech’s common stock at a volume weighted average stock price of $26.86.
The purchase price was allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, based on their preliminary fair value as of February 28, 2019, pursuant to the business combination accounting rules.
Our condensed consolidated statements of operations for the three and nine months ended April 30, 2019 include a nominal contribution from Solacom.
The acquired identifiable intangible assets are being amortized on a straight-line basis, which we believe approximates the pattern in which the assets are utilized over their estimated useful lives.We are a leading provider of advanced communications solutions for both commercial and government customers worldwide.
Our solutions fulfill our customers’ needs for secure wireless communications in some of the most demanding environments, including those where traditional communications are unavailable or cost-prohibitive, and in mission-critical and other scenarios where performance is crucial.
•Commercial Solutions - serves commercial customers and smaller governments, such as state and local governments, that require advanced communication technologies to meet their needs.
•Government Solutions - serves large government end-users (including those of foreign countries) that require mission critical technologies and systems.
Continuous transfer of control is typically supported by contract clauses which allow our customers to unilaterally terminate a contract for convenience, pay for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit and take control of work-in-process.
In certain instances, typically for firm fixed-price contracts, we use the cost-to-cost measure because it best depicts the transfer of control to the customer which occurs as we incur costs on our contracts.
When these contracts are modified, the additional goods or services are generally not distinct from those already provided.
This EAC process requires management judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenue and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues.
Since certain contracts extend over a long period of time, the impact of revisions in revenue and or cost estimates during the progress of work may impact current period earnings through a cumulative adjustment.
Additionally, if the EAC process indicates a loss, a provision is made for the total anticipated loss in the period that it becomes evident.
Contract revenue and cost estimates for significant contracts are generally reviewed and reassessed at least quarterly.
The cost-to-cost method is principally used to account for contracts in our command and control solutions and over-the-horizon microwave systems product lines and, to a lesser extent, certain location-based and messaging infrastructure contracts in our enterprise technology solutions product line.