item1.txt
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements of Comtech Telecommunications Corp. and its subsidiaries ("Comtech," "we," "us," or "our") as of and for the three months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018 are unaudited.
On February 28, 2019, we completed our acquisition of Solacom Technologies Inc. ("Solacom"), pursuant to the Arrangement Agreement, dated as of January 7, 2019, by and among Solacom, Comtech and Solar Acquisition Corp., a Canadian corporation and a direct, wholly-owned subsidiary of Comtech.
The acquisition has an aggregate purchase price for accounting purposes of $32,934,000, of which $27,328,000 was settled in cash and $5,606,000 was settled with the issuance of 208,669 shares of Comtech’s common stock at a volume weighted average stock price of $26.86.
The purchase price was allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, based on their fair value as of February 28, 2019, pursuant to the business combination accounting rules.
The acquired identifiable intangible assets are being amortized on a straight-line basis, which we believe approximates the pattern in which the assets are utilized over their estimated useful lives.
The fair value of customer relationships was estimated primarily based on the value of the discounted cash flows that the related intangible asset could be expected to generate in the future.
The fair value of technology and trade name was estimated based on the discounted capitalization of royalty expense saved because we now own the assets.
Among the factors contributing to the recognition of goodwill, as a component of the purchase price allocation, were synergies in products and technologies and the addition of a skilled, assembled workforce.
The acquisition of this NG-911 business from GD (the "GD NG-911 business") has a preliminary cash purchase price of $10,000,000 (which is subject to a net working capital adjustment).
In connection with this acquisition, we also announced an award of a five-year contract to develop, implement and operate a NG-911 emergency communications system for a Northeastern state.
Immediately after our announcement of this acquisition, we hired approximately sixty GD NG-911 employees and completed the integration of this business into our Commercial Solutions segment’s public safety and location technologies product line.
The purchase price, which is subject to a pending closing date balance sheet adjustment process under the purchase agreement, was allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, based on their preliminary fair value as of April 29, 2019, pursuant to the business combination accounting rules.


item2.txt
Our solutions fulfill our customers' needs for secure wireless communications in some of the most demanding environments, including those where traditional communications are unavailable or cost-prohibitive, and in mission-critical and other scenarios where performance is crucial.
•Commercial Solutions - offers satellite ground station technologies (such as modems and amplifiers), public safety and location technologies (such as 911 call routing and mapping solutions) to commercial customers and smaller government customers, such as state and local governments.
This segment also serves certain large government customers (including the U.S. government) that have requirements for off-the-shelf commercial equipment.
•Government Solutions - provides mission-critical technologies (such as tactical satellite-based networks and ongoing support for complicated communication networks) and high-performance transmission technologies (such as troposcatter systems and solid-state, high-power amplifiers) to large government end-users (including those of foreign countries), large international customers and domestic prime contractors.
•Over time - We recognize revenue using the over time method when there is a continuous transfer of control to the customer over the contractual period of performance.
This generally occurs when we enter into a long-term contract relating to the design, development or manufacture of complex equipment or technology platforms to a buyer’s specification (or to provide services related to the performance of such contracts).
Revenue recognized over time is generally based on the extent of progress toward completion of the related performance obligations.
The selection of the method to measure progress requires judgment and is based on the nature of the products or services provided.
In certain instances, typically for firm fixed-price contracts, we use the cost-to-cost measure because it best depicts the transfer of control to the customer which occurs as we incur costs on our contracts.
When these contracts are modified, the additional goods or services are generally not distinct from those already provided.
For over time contracts using a cost-to-cost measure of progress, we have an estimate at completion ("EAC") process in which management reviews the progress and execution of our performance obligations.
This EAC process requires management judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenue and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues.
Since certain contracts extend over a long period of time, the impact of revisions in revenue and or cost estimates during the progress of work may impact current period earnings through a cumulative adjustment.
Contract revenue and cost estimates for significant contracts are generally reviewed and reassessed at least quarterly.
The cost-to-cost method is principally used to account for contracts in our mission-critical technologies and high-performance transmission technologies product lines and, to a lesser extent, certain location-based and messaging infrastructure contracts in our public safety and location technologies product line.
For service-based contracts in our public safety and location technologies product line, we recognize revenue over time.


item3.txt



