item1.txt
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements of Comtech Telecommunications Corp. and its subsidiaries ("Comtech," "we," "us," or "our") as of and for the three and nine months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017 are unaudited.
In the opinion of management, the information furnished reflects all material adjustments (which include normal recurring adjustments) necessary for a fair presentation of the results for the unaudited interim periods.
Certain reclassifications have been made to previously reported condensed consolidated financial statements to conform to the current fiscal period presentation.
2017-09 "Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718)" ("ASU 2017-09"), issued in May 2017, which provides guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting in ASC Topic 718.
An entity would not be required to account for changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award as a modification if there were no changes to the award’s fair value, vesting conditions and classification.
The fair value of the non-current portion of our Secured Credit Facility as of April 30, 2018 approximates its carrying amount due to its variable interest rate and pricing grid that is dependent upon our leverage ratio as of the end of each fiscal quarter.
Our basic earnings per share ("EPS") is computed based on the weighted average number of common shares (including vested but unissued stock units, share units, performance shares and restricted stock units ("RSUs")), outstanding during each respective period.
Our diluted EPS reflects the dilution from potential common stock issuable pursuant to the exercise of equity-classified stock-based awards, if dilutive, outstanding during each respective period.
Pursuant to FASB ASC 260 "Earnings Per Share," equity-classified stock-based awards that are subject to performance conditions are not considered in our diluted EPS calculations until the respective performance conditions have been satisfied.


item2.txt
Our solutions fulfill our customers’ needs for secure wireless communications in some of the most demanding environments, including those where traditional communications are unavailable or cost-prohibitive, and in mission-critical and other scenarios where performance is crucial.
We believe this segment is a leading provider of satellite communications (such as satellite earth station modems and traveling wave tube amplifiers ("TWTA")), public safety systems (such as next generation 911 ("NG911") technologies) and enterprise application technologies (such as messaging and trusted location-based technologies).
•Government Solutions - serves large government end-users (including those of foreign countries) that require mission critical technologies and systems.
We believe this segment is a leading provider of command and control applications (such as the design, installation and operation of data networks that integrate computing and communications (including both satellite and terrestrial links)), ongoing network operation and management support services (including telecom expense management, project management and fielding and maintenance solutions related to satellite ground terminals), troposcatter communications (such as digital troposcatter multiplexers, digital over-the-horizon modems, troposcatter systems, and frequency converter systems) and RF power and switching technologies (such as solid state high-power broadband amplifiers, enhanced position location reporting system (commonly known as "EPLRS") amplifier assemblies, identification friend or foe amplifiers, and amplifiers used in the counteraction of improvised explosive devices).
A large portion of our revenue from advanced communication solutions is derived from contracts relating to the design, development or manufacture of complex electronic equipment to a buyer’s specification or to provide services relating to the performance of such contracts and is recognized in accordance with FASB ASC 605-35.
We have been engaged in the production and delivery of goods and services on a continual basis under contractual arrangements for many years.
In addition, most government contracts have termination for convenience clauses that provide the customer with the right to terminate the contract at any time.
We also address customer acceptance provisions in assessing our ability to perform our contractual obligations under long-term contracts.
Such revenues are recognized in accordance with the authoritative guidance contained in FASB ASC 605-25 "Revenue Recognition - Multiple Deliverable Revenue Arrangements" ("FASB ASC 605-25") and, as applicable, FASB ASC 605-20 "Revenue Recognition - Services" ("FASB ASC 605-20") and Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2009-14 (FASB ASC Topic 985) "Certain Revenue Arrangements That Include Software Elements."
In summary, we recognize revenue for each separate unit of accounting when the applicable revenue recognition criteria for each element have been met.
We allocate revenue to each separate unit of accounting in a multi-element arrangement based on the relative fair value of each element, using vendor-specific objective evidence ("VSOE") of their fair values, if available.
In the absence of VSOE of fair value, the fee is allocated among each element based on third-party evidence ("TPE") of fair value, which is determined based on competitor pricing for similar deliverables when sold separately.
When we are unable to establish fair value using VSOE or TPE, we use estimated selling price ("ESP") to allocate value to each element.
We determine ESP for deliverables by considering multiple factors including, but not limited to, prices we charge for similar offerings, market conditions, competitive landscape, and pricing practices.
Due to the nature of some of the agreements it may be difficult to establish VSOE of separate elements of an agreement; in these circumstances the appropriate recognition of revenue may require the use of judgment based on the particular facts and circumstances.
2017-04 in fiscal 2017, we would be required to recognize an impairment loss equal to the amount that a reporting unit's carrying value exceeded its fair value; however, any loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.
On August 1, 2017 (the first day of our fiscal 2018), we performed our annual quantitative assessment using market participant assumptions to determine if the fair value of each of our reporting units with goodwill exceeded its carrying value.
In performing the quantitative assessment, we estimated the fair value of each of our reporting units using a combination of the income and market approaches.
The discount rates used in our DCF method were based on a weighted-average cost of capital ("WACC") determined from relevant market comparisons, adjusted upward for specific reporting unit risks (primarily the uncertainty of achieving projected operating cash flows).


item3.txt



