fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying notes, together with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Teradyne’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, are an integral part of the condensed consolidated financial statements.
10-K, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on March 1, 2019, for the year ended December 31, 2018. right-of-use (“ROU”) asset and a lease liability on the balance sheet for operating leases with terms longer than twelve months.
Under this method of adoption, the comparative information in the consolidated financial statements has not been revised and continues to be reported under the previously applicable lease accounting guidance (ASC 840).
resulted in recording ROU assets and lease liabilities of approximately $50.1 Under ASC 842, a contract is or contains a lease when Teradyne has the right to control the use of an identified asset.
Teradyne determines if an arrangement is a lease at inception of the contract, which is the date on which the terms of the contract are agreed to and the agreement creates enforceable rights and obligations.
The commencement date of the lease is the date that the lessor makes an underlying asset available for use by Teradyne.
Teradyne determines if the lease is operating or finance at the lease commencement date based upon the terms of the lease and the nature of the asset.
The lease term used to calculate the lease liability includes options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that the option will be exercised.
As Teradyne is typically unable to determine the implicit rate, Teradyne uses an incremental borrowing rate based on the lease term and economic environment at commencement date.
Variable payments that do not depend on an index are not included in the lease liability and are recognized as they are incurred.
The ROU asset is initially measured as the amount of lease liability, adjusted for any initial lease costs, prepaid lease payments, and reduced by any lease incentives.
one-step impairment test will be applied to goodwill at all reporting units, even those with zero or negative carrying amounts.
Entities will be required to disclose the amount of goodwill at reporting units with zero or negative carrying amounts.
On January 30, 2019, Teradyne acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Lemsys SA (“Lemsys”) for a total purchase price of approximately $9.1 million.
Teradyne’s final allocation of the purchase price was goodwill of $1.4 million, which is not deductible for tax purposes, acquired intangible assets of $4.6 million with an average estimated useful life of 5.2 years, and $3.1 million of net tangible assets.
On April 25, 2018, Teradyne acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Mobile Industrial Robots Aps (“MiR”), a Danish limited liability company located in Odense, Denmark.
The contingent consideration is payable in Euros upon the achievement of certain thresholds and targets for revenue and earnings before interest and taxes for periods from January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018; January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2019; and January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2020.
The contingent consideration related to revenue for the period from January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018 in the amount of $30.8 million was paid in March 2019.


item2.txt
The total purchase price was approximately $197.8 million, which included cash paid of approximately $145.2 million and $52.6 million in fair value of contingent consideration payable upon achievement of certain thresholds and targets for revenue and earnings before interest and taxes through 2020.
On January 30, 2019, we acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Lemsys SA (“Lemsys”) for a total purchase price of approximately $9.1 million.
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception of the contract, which is the date on which the terms of the contract are agreed to and the agreement creates enforceable rights and obligations.
We determine if the lease is operating or finance at the lease commencement date based upon the terms of the lease and the nature of the asset.
Variable payments that do not depend on an index are not included in the lease liability and are recognized as they are incurred.
The increase in Semiconductor Test revenues of $14.8 million, or 4.1%, was driven primarily by an increase in semiconductor test sales for 5G infrastructure and higher service revenues, partially offset by lower microcontroller, power linear and mobile image sensor test sales.
During the three months ended June 30, 2019, we recorded an inventory provision of $3.4 million included in cost of revenues primarily due to downward revisions to previously forecasted demand levels, of which $2.3 million was related to Semiconductor Test, $0.8 million was related to Wireless Test and $0.3 million was related to System Test.
During the three months ended July 1, 2018, we recorded an inventory provision of $2.7 million included in cost of revenues primarily due to downward revisions to previously forecasted demand levels, of which $1.6 million was related to Semiconductor Test, $0.6 million was related to Wireless Test, $0.3 million was related to System Test, and $0.2 million was related to Industrial Automation.
During the three months ended June 30, 2019 and July 1, 2018, we sold $0.4 million and $1.9 million of previously written-down or pre-determined timeline to scrap the remaining inventory.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
We are subject to U.S. laws and regulations that limit and restrict the export of some of our products and services and may restrict our transactions with certain customers, business partners and other persons.
In certain circumstances, export control and economic sanctions regulations may prohibit the export of certain products, services and technologies, and in other circumstances we may be required to obtain an export license before exporting the controlled item.


