fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying financial information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained in Teradyne’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on March 1, 2018, for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Teradyne adopted Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” (“ASC 606”) on January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method for all contracts not completed as of the date of adoption.
In order to determine the appropriate timing for revenue recognition, Teradyne first determines if the transaction meets any of three criteria for over time recognition.
If the transaction meets the criteria for over time recognition, Teradyne recognizes revenue as the good or service is delivered.
Teradyne uses input variables such as hours or months utilized or costs incurred to determine the amount of revenue to recognize in a given period.
For transactions which do not meet the criteria for over time recognition, Teradyne will recognize revenue at a point in time based on an assessment of the five criteria for transfer of control.
Customers have the option to purchase an extended warranty, which extends the warranty period for systems and robots beyond the one year standard warranty.
The extended warranty is purchased in the same transaction as the system or robot purchase and is classified as a separate performance obligation which meets the criteria for over time recognition.
The relative standalone selling price of the extended warranty is recognized ratably over the course of the extended warranty based on months completed.
Training and applications support included in system orders are valued based on their standalone selling price and all training and applications support is recognized over time as the customer receives and consumes the benefit associated with each.
The amount of revenue recognized during the quarter ended April 1, 2018 that was included within the deferred revenue and customer advances balance at January 1, 2018 was $21.8 million and primarily relates to extended warranties, training, application support, and PCS.
Customers typically pay for these services net 30 to 60 days from the date that transfer of control of the associated system or product occurs.
Teradyne has adopted the practical expedient which states an entity need not adjust the promised amount of consideration for the effects of a significant financing component if the entity expects, at contract inception, that the period between when the entity transfers a promised good or service to the customer and when the customer pays for that good or service will be one year or less.
Differences are the result of timing differences between the recognition of revenue under ASC 606 and ASC 605 primarily with respect to software transactions deferred due to lack of vendor specific objective evidence of price under ASC 605 and Teradyne’s assessment of acceptance under ASC 606.
Cost.” Teradyne retrospectively adopted the new accounting guidance on presentation of net periodic pension costs and net periodic postretirement benefit costs in the first quarter of 2018.
This guidance requires the service cost component of net benefit costs to be reported in the same line item in the consolidated statement of operations as other employee compensation costs.
The non-service components of net benefit costs such as interest cost, expected return on assets, amortization of prior service cost, and actuarial gains or losses, are required to be reported separately outside of income or loss from operations.
The retrospective adoption of this standard increased the first quarter of 2017 income from operations by $0.4 million due to the removal of the non-service component of pension expense and decreased other income (expense), net by the same amount with no impact to net income.
“Leases.” The new standard establishes a right- of-use (“ROU”) model that requires a lessee to record an ROU asset and a lease liability on the balance sheet for all leases with terms longer than twelve months.


item2.txt
In order to be distinct the product or service must perform either on its own or with readily available resources and must be separate within the context of the contract.
In order to determine the appropriate timing for revenue recognition, we first determine if the transaction meets any of three criteria for over time recognition.
If the transaction meets the criteria for over time recognition, we recognize revenue as the good or service is delivered.
For transactions which do not meet the criteria for over time recognition, we will recognize revenue at a point in time based on an assessment of the five criteria for transfer of control.
expected return on assets, amortization of prior service cost, and actuarial gains or losses, are required to be reported separately outside of income or loss from operations.
Following the adoption of this guidance, we continue to record the service cost component in the same line item as other employee compensation costs and the non-service components of net benefit costs such as interest cost, expected return on assets, amortization of prior service cost, and actuarial gains or losses are reported within other (income) expense, net.
The retrospective adoption of this standard increased the first quarter of 2017 income from operations by $0.4 million due to the removal of the non-service component of pension expense and decreased other (income) expense, net by the same amount with zero impact to net income.
The increase in Semiconductor Test revenues of $17.8 million, or 5.0%, was driven primarily by increased sales in the flash memory test segment, partially offset by a decrease in image sensor and microcontroller sales.


item3.txt
In addition to market risks described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have an equity price risk related to the fair value of our convertible senior unsecured notes issued in December 2016.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Our business may suffer if we are impacted by the implementation of tariffs on our products.


