fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying financial information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained in Teradyne’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on March 1, 2018, for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Teradyne adopted Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” (“ASC 606”) on January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method for all contracts not completed as of the date of adoption.
In order to determine the appropriate timing for revenue recognition, Teradyne first determines if the transaction meets any of three criteria for over time recognition.
If the transaction meets the criteria for over time recognition, Teradyne recognizes revenue as the good or service is delivered.
For transactions that do not meet the criteria for over time recognition, Teradyne will recognize revenue at a point in time based on an assessment of the five criteria for transfer of control.
Revenue recognized in accordance with ASC 606 was $564.5 million and $1,571.0 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, Teradyne also recognized $2.3 million and $10.2 million, respectively, in revenue on leases of Teradyne systems, which are accounted for outside of ASC 606.
Customers have the option to purchase an extended warranty, which extends the warranty period for systems and robots beyond the one-year standard warranty.
The extended warranty is purchased in the same transaction as the system or robot purchase and is classified as a separate performance obligation, which meets the criteria for over time recognition.
The relative standalone selling price of the extended warranty is recognized ratably over the course of the extended warranty based on months completed.
Training and applications support included in system orders are valued based on their standalone selling price and all training and applications support is recognized over time as the customer receives and consumes the benefit associated with each.
The amount of revenue recognized during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 that was previously included within the deferred revenue and customer advances was $24.5 million and $70.9 million, respectively, and primarily relates to extended warranties, training, application support, and PCS.
Customers typically pay for these services net 30 to 60 days from the date that transfer of control of the associated system or product occurs.
Teradyne has adopted the practical expedient, which states an entity need not adjust the promised amount of consideration for the effects of a significant financing component if the entity expects, at contract inception, that the period between when the entity transfers a promised good or service to the customer and when the customer pays for that good or service will be one year or less.
Differences are the result of timing differences between the recognition of revenue under ASC 606 and ASC 605 primarily with respect to software transactions deferred due to lack of vendor specific objective evidence of price under ASC 605 and Teradyne’s assessment of acceptance under ASC 606.
The adoption of this new accounting guidance increased the January 1, 2018 retained earnings balance by $3.1 million and decreased the accumulated other comprehensive income balance by the same amount.
The total preliminary purchase price of $196.6 million consisted of $145.2 million of cash paid and $51.4 million of contingent consideration, measured at fair value.
The contingent consideration is payable in Euros upon the achievement of certain thresholds and targets for revenue and earnings before interest and taxes for periods from January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018; January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2019; and January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2020.


item2.txt
The total purchase price for MiR was approximately $197 million, which included cash paid of approximately $146 million and $51 million in fair value of contingent consideration payable upon achievement of revenue and earnings targets through 2020.
In order to determine the appropriate timing for revenue recognition, we first determine if the transaction meets any of three criteria for over time recognition.
If the transaction meets the criteria for over time recognition, we recognize revenue as the good or service is delivered.
For transactions that do not meet the criteria for over time recognition, we will recognize revenue at a point in time based on an assessment of the five criteria for transfer of control.
This guidance requires the service cost component of net benefit costs to be reported in the same line item in the consolidated statement of operations as other employee compensation costs.
The non-service components of net benefit costs such as interest cost, expected return on assets, amortization of prior service cost, and actuarial gains or losses, are required to be reported separately outside of income or loss from operations.
In the three months ended October 1, 2017, the retrospective adoption of this standard increased income from operations by $0.4 million due to the removal of net actuarial pension losses and decreased non-operating (income) expense by the same amount with no impact to net income.
In the nine months ended October 1, 2017, the retrospective adoption of this standard decreased income from operations by $1.3 million due to the removal of net actuarial pension gains and increased non-operating (income) expense by the same amount with no impact to net income.
The increase in Semiconductor Test revenues of $20.4 million, or 5.1%, was driven primarily by an increase in the memory test sales, partially offset by lower mobility test segment sales.


item3.txt
In addition to market risks described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have an equity price risk related to the fair value of our convertible senior unsecured notes issued in December 2016.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The implementation of tariffs and export controls on our products may have a material impact on our business.


