Item 1.
Financial Statements (Unaudited)
TAITRON COMPONENTS INCORPORATED
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
Index
TAITRON COMPONENTS INCORPORATED
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
Index
TAITRON COMPONENTS INCORPORATED
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
Index
 TAITRON COMPONENTS INCORPORATED
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
Index
TAITRON COMPONENTS INCORPORATED
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited)
1 – SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Overview of Business
In 1989, we were formed and incorporated in California.
We maintain a majority-owned subsidiary in Mexico (since 1998) and two divisions in each of Taiwan (since 1997) and China (since 2005).
Our Mexico location closed all operations in May 2013 (final closure is pending sale of our local 15,000 sq.
ft. office and warehouse facility) and our Taiwan and China locations are for supporting overseas customers, inventory sourcing, purchases and coordinating the manufacture of our products.
Our China location also serves as the engineering design support center responsible for arranging pre-production scheduling and mass production runs with joint venture partners for our projects, making component datasheets and test specifications, preparing samples, monitoring quality of shipments and performing failure analysis reports.
Basis of Presentation
The unaudited condensed consolidated interim financial statements include the accounts of the Company and all wholly owned divisions, including its 60% majority-owned subsidiary, Taitron Components Mexico, S.A. de C.V. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) for interim financial information and the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 8 of Regulation S-X.
Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP for complete financial statements.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments of a normal recurring nature and considered necessary for a fair presentation of its financial condition and results of operations for the interim periods presented in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q have been included.
Operating results for the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of financial results for the full year.
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
In preparing these financial statements, management is required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the condensed consolidated financial statements and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Significant estimates and assumptions included in the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements relate to the allowance for sales returns, doubtful accounts, inventory reserves, accrued liabilities and deferred income taxes.
New Accounting Pronouncements
In February 2016, the FASB issued a new accounting standard on leasing.
The new standard will require companies to record most leased assets and liabilities on the balance sheet, and also proposes a dual model for recognizing expense.
This guidance was effective in our first quarter of 2019.
We have evaluated the impact of adopting this guidance and the adoption of these accounting changes have not impacted our assets and liabilities nor our net income or equity, as we currently do not lease any assets.
In January 2017, the FASB issued a new accounting standard which clarifies the definition of a business with the objective of adding guidance to assist entities with evaluating whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions or disposals of assets or businesses.
This guidance was effective in our first quarter of 2019.
The adoption of this guidance has not had a material effect on our consolidated financial statements.
In May 2017, the FASB issued a new accounting standard which provides guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting in ASC Topic 718.
Under the new guidance, modification accounting is required only if the fair value, the vesting conditions, or the classification of the award (as equity or liability) changes as a result of the change in terms or conditions.
This guidance was effective in our first quarter of 2019.
The adoption of this guidance has not had a material effect on our consolidated financial statements.
Index
Revenue recognition
Revenue is recognized at the point at which control of the underlying products are transferred to the customer.
Satisfaction of our performance obligations occur upon the transfer of control of products, either from our facilities or directly from suppliers to customers.
We consider customer purchase orders to be the contracts with a customer.
All revenue is generated from contracts with customers.
In determining the transaction price, we evaluate whether the price is subject to refund or adjustment to determine the net consideration to which we expect to receive.
Taxes assessed by a governmental authority on revenue-producing transactions are excluded from revenue.
Shipping and handling costs associated with outbound freight after control over a product has transferred to a customer are accounted for as fulfillment costs and are included in cost of products sold.
Based upon the nature of our contracts with customers and our performance obligations within those contracts, we have no contract assets or liabilities as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018.
Nature of products
ODM Components - Our private labeled electronic components.
Distribution Components - Our name brand electronic components.
Disaggregation of revenue
In the following table, revenue is disaggregated by primary geographical market, major product line, and timing of revenue recognition.
Index
Inventory – Inventory, consisting principally of products held for resale, is recorded at the lower of cost (determined using the first in-first out method) or net realizable value.
We had inventory balances in the amount of $4,700,000 and $4,597,000 at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively, which is presented net of valuation allowances of $7,229,000 and $7,189,000, respectively.
We evaluate inventories to identify excess, high-cost, slow-moving or other factors rendering inventories as unmarketable at normal profit margins.
Due to the complexity of managing and maintaining a large inventory of product offerings, estimates are made regarding adjustments to the carrying values of inventories.
Based on our assumptions about future demand and market conditions, inventories are carried at the lower of cost or net realizable value.
If our assumptions about future demand change, or market conditions are less favorable than those projected, additional write-downs of inventories or valuation allowances may be required.
In any case, actual amounts could be different from those estimated.
3 – OTHER ASSETS
$193,000 relates to 1,322,552 common shares of ZT and represents approximately 9% of their total outstanding shares although we do not have significant influence or control.
$186,000 relates to 317,428 shares of preferred convertible shares of ZT with our option after 3 (three) years to convert the investment into common stock or refundable bearing 7% annual interest rate.
Both investments in ZT are accounted for under the cost (plus impairment) basis of accounting.
4 – RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
We made payments to K.S.
Best International Co. Ltd., a company controlled by the brother of our Chief Executive Officer of approximately $0 and $6,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
These payments were for professional fees related to the operational management of our Taiwan office.
In addition, we also made interest expense payments on our credit facility of approximately $0 and $6,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Index
5 – SHARE BASED COMPENSATION
At March 31, 2019, the range of individual outstanding weighted average exercise prices was $0.98 to $1.78.
6 – COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
Inventory Purchasing
Outstanding commitments to purchase inventory from suppliers aggregated $2,040,000 as of March 31, 2019.
Index
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.
- None
