Item 1. Financial Statements.</b>

a nanotechnology that relies on electron spin rather than electron charge to acquire,

of NVE Corporation are prepared consistent with accounting principles generally

accepted in the United States and in accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission

rules and regulations. In the opinion of management, these financial statements

reflect all adjustments, consisting only of normal and recurring adjustments,

necessary for a fair presentation of the financial statements. Although we believe

that the disclosures are adequate to make the information presented not misleading,

it is suggested that these unaudited financial statements be read in conjunction

with the audited financial statements and the notes included in our latest annual

by the transfer of control of products or services to our customers, in an amount

that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those

products or services. Revenue is disaggregated into product sales and contract

research and development to depict the nature, amount, timing of revenue recognition

and economic characteristics of our business, and is represented within the financial

and distributors when we satisfy our performance obligation, at a point in time,

upon product shipment or delivery to our customer or distributor as determined

by agreed upon shipping terms. Shipping charges billed to customers are included

in product sales and the related shipping costs are included in selling, general,

and administrative expenses. Under certain limited circumstances, our distributors

may earn commissions for activities unrelated to their purchases of our products,

such as for facilitating the sale of custom products or research and development

contracts with third parties. We recognize any such commissions as selling, general,

and administrative expenses. We recognize discounts provided to our distributors

over a period of time as the performance obligation is satisfied over a period

of time rather than a point in time. Contracts have specifications unique to each

customer and do not create an asset with an alternate use, and we have an enforceable

right to payment for performance completed to date. We recognize revenue over

a period of time using costs incurred as the measurement of progress towards completion.

a good or service to a customer and our right to receive consideration is unconditional

through the completion of our performance obligation. A contract asset is recognized

when we have a right to consideration from the transfer of goods or services to

a customer but have not completed our performance obligation. A contract liability

is recognized when we have been paid by a customer but have not yet satisfied

the performance obligation by transferring goods or services. We had no material

and contract research and development contracts are satisfied in one year or less.

Unsatisfied performance obligations represent contracts with an original expected

duration of one year or less. As permitted under Accounting Standards Codification

are using the practical expedient not to disclose the value of these unsatisfied

performance obligations. We also use the practical expedient in which we do not

assess whether a contract has a significant financing component if the expectation

at contract inception is such that the period between payment by the customer

and the transfer of the promised goods or services to the customer will be one

rate on items within accumulated other comprehensive income or loss due to the

those fiscal years, which will be fiscal 2020 for us. Early adoption is permitted,

resulted in a $60,365 reclassification from accumulated other comprehensive loss

and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows.

and financial statement presentation of equity investments, other than those accounted

for under the equity method of accounting or those that result in consolidation

of the investee. The amendment provides clarity on the measurement methodology

to be used for the required disclosure of fair value of financial instruments

measured at amortized cost on the balance sheet and clarifies that an entity should

evaluate the need for a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets related to

which superseded the revenue recognition requirements in Accounting Standards

principle that revenue is recognized to depict the transfer of goods or services

to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity

expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. It also requires

additional disclosure about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue

and cash flows arising from customer contracts, including significant judgments

and changes in judgments and assets recognized from costs incurred to obtain or

fulfill a contract. We adopted the guidance using the modified retrospective method

issued accounting standards, on which our position have not changed since our

latest annual financial statements, are contained in the financial statements

the weighted-average number of common shares issued and outstanding during each

period. Net income per diluted share amounts assume exercise of all stock options.

as available-for-sale securities and carried at estimated fair value. Unrealized

holding gains and losses are included in accumulated other comprehensive income

maturities less than one year are classified as short-term, and those with remaining

maturities greater than one year are classified as long-term. We consider all

highly-liquid investments with maturities of three months or less when purchased,

including money market funds, to be cash equivalents. Gains and losses on marketable

a framework for measuring fair value, provide a definition of fair value and prescribe

required disclosures about fair-value measurements. Generally accepted accounting

principles define fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset

or paid to transfer a liability. Fair value is a market-based measurement that

should be determined using assumptions that market participants would use in pricing

an asset or liability. Generally accepted accounting principles utilize a valuation

hierarchy for disclosure of fair value measurements. The categorization within

the valuation hierarchy is based on the lowest level of input that is significant

to the fair value measurement. The categories within the valuation hierarchy are

value measurements are determined using either prices for similar instruments

or inputs that are either directly or indirectly observable, such as interest

of the individual securities. As a result, bonds with a total fair value of $51,558,274

We do not have any financial assets or liabilities being measured at fair value

losses and fair value of our available-for-sale securities with unrealized holding

losses, aggregated by class of securities and length of time that individual securities

impaired at acquisition, and subsequent declines in fair value are not attributed

to declines in credit quality. When evaluating for impairment we assess indicators

that include, but are not limited to, earnings performance, changes in underlying

credit ratings, market conditions, bona fide offers to purchase or sell, and ability

to hold until maturity. Because we believe it is more likely than not we will

recover the cost basis of our investments, we did not consider any of our marketable

of temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities

for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes.

to titles II and V of the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year

The Tax Reform Act reduced certain Federal corporate income tax rates effective

Tax Reform Act, our tax rate decreased from 30% for fiscal 2018 to an estimated

of the reporting date. We recognize interest and penalties related to income tax

related to uncertain tax positions. The tax years 1999 and 2014 through 2017 remain

of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $2,500,000 of our Common Stock,

of additional repurchases. We did not repurchase any of our Common Stock under

had declared a quarterly cash dividend of $1.00 per share of Common Stock to be

the documents incorporated by reference in this Report and in other materials

as well as information included in verbal or written statements made by us constitute

forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation

Reform Act of 1995. These statements are subject to the safe harbor provisions

of the reform act. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of

the terminology such as may, will, expect, anticipate, intend, believe, estimate,

should, or continue, or the negatives of these terms or other variations on these

words or comparable terminology. To the extent that this Report contains forward-looking

statements regarding the financial condition, operating results, business prospects

or any other aspect of NVE, you should be aware that our actual financial condition,

operating results and business performance may differ materially from that projected

or estimated by us in the forward-looking statements. We have attempted to identify,

in context, some of the factors that we currently believe may cause actual future

experience and results to differ from their current expectations. These differences

may be caused by a variety of factors, including but not limited to risks related

to our reliance on several large customers for a significant percentage of revenue,

uncertainties related to the economic environments in the industries we serve,

uncertainties related to future contract research and development revenue, uncertainties

related to the impact of Federal tax reform, uncertainties related to future stock

repurchases and dividend payments, and other specific risks that may be alluded

to in this Report or in the documents incorporated by reference in this Report.

our, develops and sells devices that use spintronics, a nanotechnology that relies

on electron spin rather than electron charge to acquire, store and transmit information.

We manufacture high-performance spintronic products including sensors and couplers

that are used to acquire and transmit data. We have also licensed our spintronic

critical accounting policies and estimates continued to include investment valuation,

2018 (the first quarter of fiscal 2019) decreased 7% compared to the quarter ended

due to a 67% decrease in contract research and development revenue. The decrease

in contract research and development revenue was due to the completion of certain

for the first quarter of fiscal 2018, compared to 76% for the first quarter of

of fiscal 2019 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2018, due to a 9% increase

in research and development expense, partially offset by an 18% decrease in selling,

general, and administrative expense. The increase in research and development

expense was due to increased new product development activities. The decrease

in selling, general, and administrative expense was due to staffing changes and

2019 increased 17% due to an increase in the average interest rates on our marketable

taxes for the quarter, compared to 32% in the prior-year quarter. The decrease

was due to the effect of a decrease in the Federal tax rate and certain other

of fiscal 2019 compared to the prior-year quarter was primarily due to a decrease

2018 was due to $4,649,899 in net cash provided by operating activities and $3,888,890

of cash provided by investing activities, partially offset by $4,842,010 of cash

used in financing activities. We currently believe our working capital and cash

generated from operations will be adequate for our needs at least for the next

partially offset by $3,373,125 of purchases of marketable securities and $37,985

of fiscal 2019 was due to a $4,842,010 quarterly dividend paid to shareholders.

2018 we announced that our Board had declared a cash quarterly dividend of $1.00

provided by operating activities and proceeds from maturities and sales of marketable

securities. All future dividends will be subject to Board approval and subject

estimates of future cash requirements, and other factors the Board may deem relevant.

market risks, primarily marketable securities and, to a lesser extent, changes

is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing after-tax yields without

significantly increasing risk. To achieve this objective, we maintain our portfolio

of cash equivalents and marketable securities in securities including municipal

obligations, corporate obligations, and money market funds. Available-for-sale

securities are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value with unrealized gains

or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive

approximately 89% of our total assets. We have not used derivative financial instruments

Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has performed an evaluation of

the period covered by this Report. This evaluation included consideration of the

controls, processes, and procedures that are designed to ensure that information

required to be disclosed by us in the reports we file under the Exchange Act is

recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified

communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief

Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required

disclosure. Based on such evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial

standard is expected to have an immaterial impact on our ongoing net income (loss),

we implemented changes to our processes related to revenue recognition and the

control activities within them. These included the development of new policies

based on the five-step model provided in the new revenue recognition standard,

new training, contract review requirements, and the gathering of information provided

involved in litigation. At this time we are not aware of any material pending

or threatened legal proceedings or other proceedings contemplated by governmental

authorities that we expect would have a material adverse impact on our future

factors disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended

Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf

