fls.txt



item1.txt
This report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended February 28, 2019 should be read in conjunction with the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 31, 2018, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on November 14, 2018. As contemplated by the SEC under Article 8 of Regulation S-X, the accompanying consolidated financial statements and footnotes have been condensed and therefore do not contain all disclosures required by generally accepted accounting principles. The interim financial data are unaudited; however, in the opinion of Simulations Plus, Inc. ("we", "our", "us"), the interim data includes all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair statement of the results for the interim periods. Results for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of those to be expected for the full year. 
Simulations Plus, Inc. (“Simulations Plus”, “Lancaster”) was incorporated on July 17, 1996. On September 2, 2014, Simulations Plus, Inc. acquired all of the outstanding equity interests of Cognigen Corporation (“Cognigen”, “Buffalo”) and Cognigen became a wholly owned subsidiary of Simulations Plus, Inc. Simulations Plus, Inc., acquired DILIsym Services, Inc. (DILIsym) as a wholly owned subsidiary pursuant to a stock purchase agreement dated May 1, 2017. On June 1, 2017, the Company consummated the acquisition of all outstanding equity interests of DILIsym pursuant to the terms of the Stock Agreement, with DILIsym becoming a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. (Collectively, “Company”, “we”, “us”, “our”). 
The Company designs and develops pharmaceutical simulation software to promote cost-effective solutions to a number of problems in pharmaceutical research and in the education of pharmacy and medical students, and it provides consulting services to the pharmaceutical and chemical industries. Recently, the Company has begun to explore developing software applications for defense and for health care outside of the pharmaceutical industry. 
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Simulations Plus, Inc. and, as of September 2, 2014, its wholly owned subsidiary, Cognigen Corporation, and as of June 1, 2017, the accounts of DILIsym Services, Inc. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated in consolidation. 
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2014-09 and its related amendments regarding Accounting Standards Codification Topic 606 (ASC Topic 606), Revenue from Contracts with Customers. The standard provides principles for recognizing revenue for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers with the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The standard also provides guidance on the recognition of incremental costs related to obtaining customer contracts. We adopted ASC Topic 606, effective September 1, 2018, utilizing the modified retrospective method. This approach was applied to contracts that were in process as of September 1, 2018, and the corresponding incremental costs of obtaining those contracts, which resulted in a cumulative effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings at the date of adoption. The adoption of this ASU primarily impacts the timing of our revenue recognition for certain sales contracts, the capitalization and amortization of incremental costs of obtaining a contract, and related disclosures. The reported results for fiscal year 2019 reflect the application of ASC Topic 606, while the reported results for fiscal year 2018 are not adjusted and continue to be reported under ASC Topic 605. 
ASC 606 requires that the Company disclose the aggregate amount of transaction price that is allocated to performance obligations that have not yet been satisfied as of August 31, 2018. ASC 606 provides certain practical expedients that limit the requirement to disclose the aggregate amount of transaction price allocated to unsatisfied performance obligations. 
Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level, which is one level below or the same as an operating segment. As of February 28, 2019, the Company determined that it has three reporting units, Simulations Plus, Cognigen Corporation, and DILIsym Services, Inc. When testing goodwill for impairment, the Company first performs a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is necessary to perform step one of a two-step annual goodwill impairment test for each reporting unit. The Company is required to perform step one only if it concludes that it is more likely than not that a reporting unit's fair value is less than its carrying value. Should this be the case, the first step of the two-step process is to identify whether a potential impairment exists by comparing the estimated fair values of the Company's reporting units with their respective book values, including goodwill. If the estimated fair value of the reporting unit exceeds book value, goodwill is considered not to be impaired, and no additional steps are necessary. If, however, the fair value of the reporting unit is less than book value, then the second step is performed to determine if goodwill is impaired and to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. The amount of the impairment loss is the excess of the carrying amount of the goodwill over its implied fair value. The estimate of implied fair value of goodwill is primarily based on an estimate of the discounted cash flows expected to result from that reporting unit but may require valuations of certain internally generated and unrecognized intangible assets such as the Company's software, technology, patents, and trademarks. If the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to the excess. 
As of February 28, 2019, the entire balance of goodwill was attributed to two of the Company's reporting units, Cognigen Corporation and DILIsym Services. Intangible assets subject to amortization are reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable. There were no changes to goodwill, nor has the Company recognized any impairment charges, during the three-month and six-month periods ended February 28, 2019 and 2018. 
The Company accounted for the acquisition of Cognigen and DILIsym Services, Inc., using the purchase method of accounting where the assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recognized based on their respective estimated fair values. The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Determining the fair value of certain acquired assets and liabilities is subjective in nature and often involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions, including, but not limited to, the selection of appropriate valuation methodology, projected revenue, expenses and cash flows, weighted average cost of capital, discount rates, estimates of advertiser and publisher turnover rates, and estimates of terminal values. Business acquisitions are included in the Company's consolidated financial statements as of the date of the acquisition. 
As of February 28, 2019, and August 31, 2018, the Company has a liability for contingent consideration related to its acquisition of the DILIsym Services, Inc. The fair-value measurement of the contingent consideration obligations is determined using Level 3 inputs. The fair value of contingent consideration obligations is based on a discounted cash flow model using a probability-weighted income approach. These fair-value measurements represent Level 3 measurements as they are based on significant inputs not observable in the market. Significant judgment is employed in determining the appropriateness of these assumptions as of the acquisition date and for each subsequent period. Accordingly, changes in assumptions could have a material impact on the amount of contingent consideration expense the Company records in any given period. Changes in the value of the contingent consideration obligations are recorded in the Company’s Consolidated Statement of Operations. 
On May 15, 2014, we entered into a termination and nonassertion agreement with TSRL, Inc., pursuant to which the parties agreed to terminate an exclusive software licensing agreement entered into between the parties in 1997. As a result, the company obtained a perpetual right to use certain source code and data, and TSRL relinquished any rights and claims to any GastroPlus products and to any claims to royalties or other payments under that 1997 agreement. We agreed to pay TSRL total consideration of $6,000,000, which is being amortized over 10 years under the straight-line method. Amortization expense for each of the three-month periods ended February 28, 2019 and 2018 was $150,000, and $300,000 for each of the six-month periods ended February 28, 2019 and 2018. Accumulated amortization as of February 28, 2019 and August 31, 2018 were $2,875,000 and $2,575,000, respectively. 
In September 2018, we purchased certain intellectual property rights of Entelos Holding Company, a Delaware Corporation. The cost of $50,000 is being amortized over 10 years under the straight-line method. Amortization expense for the three months and six months period ended February 28, 2019 was $1,250 and $2,500, respectively. Accumulated amortization as of February 28, 2019 was $2,500. 
Total amortization expense for intellectual property agreements for the three months ended February 28, 2019 and 2018 was $232,292 and $231,042, respectively, and total amortization expense for the six months ended February 28, 2019 and 2018 was $464,583 and $462,083 respectively. Accumulated amortization as of February 28, 2019 was $3,484,168 and $3,019,584 as of August 31, 2018. 
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASU 2014-09). The standard will eliminate the transaction- and industry-specific revenue recognition guidance under current generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. (GAAP) and replace it with a principles-based approach for determining revenue recognition. ASU 2014-09 is effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2017. Early adoption is permitted for years beginning after December 15, 2016. The revenue recognition standard is required to be applied retrospectively, including any combination of practical expedients as allowed in the standard. The standard was adopted concurrently with the adoption of ASU 2016-10 which is effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2017. 
In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-09, Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting (ASU 2016-09). This ASU affects entities that issue share-based payment awards to their employees. The ASU is designed to simplify several aspects of accounting for share-based payment award transactions which include - the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, classification on the statement of cash flows and forfeiture rate calculations. ASU 2016-09 will become effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. Early adoption is permitted in any interim or annual period. The Company early adopted ASU No. 2016-09. The adoption had no material impact on the Company’s financial statements. 


item2.txt
We are a global leader focused on improving the ways scientists use knowledge and data to predict the properties and outcomes of pharmaceutical and biotechnology agents, and are one of only two global companies who provide a wide range of early discovery, preclinical, and clinical consulting services and software. Our innovations in integrating new and existing science in medicinal chemistry, computational chemistry, pharmaceutical science, biology, physiology, and machine learning into our software have made us the leading software provider for PBPK modeling and simulation, prediction of molecular properties from structure, and prediction of drugs to induce liver injury or to treat nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. 
We generate revenue by delivering relevant, cost-effective software and creative and insightful consulting services. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies use our software programs and scientific consulting services to guide early drug discovery (molecule design and screening), preclinical, and clinical development programs. They also use it to enhance their understanding of the properties of potential new medicines and to use emerging data to improve formulations, select and justify dosing regimens, support the generics industry, optimize clinical trial designs, and simulate outcomes in special populations, such as the elderly and pediatric patients. 
Simulations Plus previously acquired Cognigen Corporation (Cognigen) as a wholly owned subsidiary. Cognigen was originally incorporated in 1992. Through the integration of Cognigen into Simulations Plus, Simulations Plus became also a leading provider of population modeling and simulation contract research services for the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. Our clinical-pharmacology-based consulting services include pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic modeling, clinical trial simulations, data programming, and technical writing services in support of regulatory submissions. We have also developed software for harnessing cloud-based computing in support of modeling and simulation activities and secure data archiving, and we provide consulting services to improve interdisciplinary collaborations and research and development productivity. 
Simulation Plus also acquired DILIsym Services, Inc. (DILIsym) as a wholly owned subsidiary. We believe the combination of Simulations Plus and DILIsym provides substantial future potential based on the complementary strengths of each of the companies. The acquisition of DILIsym positions the Company as the leading provider of Drug Induced Liver Injury (DILI) modeling and simulation software and related scientific consulting services. In addition to the DILIsym® software for analysis of potential drug-induced liver injury, DILIsym Services, Inc. also has developed a simulation program for analyzing nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) called NAFLDsym™. Both the DILIsym and NAFLDsym software programs require outputs from physiologically based pharmacokinetics (PBPK) software as inputs. The GastroPlus™ PBPK software from Simulations Plus provides such information; thus, the integration of these technologies will provide a seamless capability for analyzing the potential for drug-induced liver injury for new drug compounds and for investigating the potential for new therapeutic agents to treat nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. 
Our flagship product, originally introduced in 1998, and currently our largest single source of software revenue, is GastroPlus. GastroPlus mechanistically simulates the absorption, pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, and drug-drug interactions of compounds administered to humans and animals and is currently the most widely used commercial software of its type by pharmaceutical companies, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the U.S. National Institutes of Health (NIH), and other government agencies in the U.S. and other countries. 
In September 2014, we entered into a research collaboration agreement (RCA) with the FDA to enhance the Ocular Compartmental Absorption and Transit (OCAT™) model within the Additional Dosing Routes Module of GastroPlus. The objective of this agreement was to provide a tool for generic companies and the FDA to assess the likely bioequivalence of generic drug formulations dosed to the eye. Under this RCA, we received up to $200,000 per year. This RCA could be renewed for up to a total of three years based on the progress achieved during the project. After a successful second year, the RCA was extended for two additional years in September 2016, with primary tasks completed in September 2018. Additional functionality was further requested by the FDA, and a new funded contract was awarded for the 2018-19 period. 
In September 2018, we were pleased to announce that we were awarded another funded RCA by the FDA to integrate drug product quality attributes into the mechanistic TCAT model in GastroPlus. This grant award, for $250,000 per year for up to two years, will focus on the incorporation of drug product quality attributes into dermal physiologically-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) models developed for dermatological topical dosage forms and transdermal delivery systems. 
In July 2018 we entered into a one-year funded research collaboration with a large European consortium to further develop and validate the mechanistic Transdermal Compartmental Absorption and Transit (TCAT™) model in GastroPlus. This project will contribute substantially to improvements in the program, specifically directed toward the predictions of local exposure within the skin layer following topical administration of various chemicals. We expect the developments under this agreement will aid companies and regulatory agencies as they strive to implement an animal-free chemical safety assessment program. 
Our goal with GastroPlus is to integrate the most advanced science into user-friendly software to enable researchers and regulators to perform sophisticated analyses of complex compound behaviors in humans and laboratory animals. Already the most widely used program in the world for PBPK modeling, the addition of these new capabilities is expected to expand the user base in the early pharmaceutical research and development process, while also helping us to further penetrate biopharmaceuticals, food, cosmetics, and general toxicology markets. 
DDDPlus mechanistically simulates in vitro (laboratory) experiments that measure the rate of dissolution of a drug as well as, if desired, the additives (excipients) in a particular dosage form (e.g., powder, tablet, capsule, or injectable solids) under a variety of experimental conditions. This unique software program is used by formulation scientists in industry and the FDA to (1) understand the physical mechanisms affecting the disintegration and dissolution rates of various formulations, (2) reduce the number of cut-and-try attempts to design new drug formulations, (3) design in vitro dissolution experiments to better mimic in vivo (animal and human) conditions, and (4) . Version 5.0 of DDDPlus, which added a number of significant enhancements, was released in April 2016. This version added new formulation types (controlled release bilayer tablet, delayed release coated tablet, and immediate release coated beads), expanded formulation specification options, biorelevant solubilities and surfactant effects on dissolution, tablet compression and disintegration models, links with GastroPlus, and updated licensing. 
Similar to DDDPlus, MembranePlus mechanistically simulates laboratory experiments, but in this case, the experiments are for measuring permeability of drug-like molecules through various membranes, including several different standard cell cultures (Caco-2, MDCK), as well as artificially formulated membranes (PAMPA). The value of such simulations derives from the fact that when the permeabilities of the same molecules are measured in different laboratories using (supposedly) the same experimental conditions, the results are often significantly different. These differences are caused by a complex interplay of factors in how the experiment was set up and run. MembranePlus simulates these experiments with their specific experimental details, and this enables scientists to better interpret how results from specific experimental protocols can be used to predict permeability in human and animals, which is the ultimate goal. 
In August 2016, we released a standalone software product called PKPlus, based on the internal PKPlus Module in GastroPlus that has been available since 2000. The PKPlus Module in GastroPlus provides quick and easy fitting of compartmental pharmacokinetic (PK) models as well as a simple noncompartmental analysis (NCA) for intravenous and extravascular (oral, dermal, ocular, pulmonary, etc.) doses; however, the PKPlus Module in GastroPlus was not designed to meet all of the requirements for performing these analyses for Phase 2 and 3 clinical trials, nor to produce report-quality output for regulatory submissions. The standalone PKPlus program provides the full level of functionality needed by pharmaceutical industry scientists to perform the analyses and generate the outputs needed to fully satisfy regulatory agency requirements for both more complex NCA as well as compartmental PK modeling. After receiving considerable feedback on version 1.0, we began modifying the program to include a number of additional features requested by our users and potential users for release in version 2.0. 
MedChem Designer was initially a molecule-drawing program, or “sketcher”, but now has capabilities far exceeding those of other molecule-drawing programs because of its integration with both MedChem Studio and ADMET Predictor. We provide MedChem Designer for free because we believe that in the long run it will help to increase demand for ADMET Predictor and MedChem Studio, and because most other existing molecule-drawing programs are also provided for free. Our free version includes a small set of ADMET Predictor’s best-in-class property predictions, allowing the chemist to modify molecular structures and then see a few key properties very quickly. With a paid ADMET Predictor license, the chemist would see the entire approximately 150 predictions that are available. Over 28,000 copies of MedChem Designer have been downloaded by scientists around the world to date. 


part2.txt
  Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities  


