item1.txt
In the opinion of management, the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements reflect all adjustments (consisting only of normal recurring adjustments) necessary to present fairly the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows for the interim periods presented.
Except for the changes related to revenue recognition discussed in “Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements” and in Note 2 below, there have been no other changes to the Company’s significant accounting policies during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to the significant accounting policies described in the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
The Company recorded a net increase to the opening balance of retained earnings of $0.4 million, net of tax, as of January 1, 2018 due to the cumulative effect of initially applying Topic 606, primarily related to the change in revenue recognition for three U.S.-based distributors.
Prior to the adoption of Topic 606, revenue and costs related to these sales were deferred until the Company received notification from the distributors that the products had been sold to the end customers and the amount of price adjustments was fixed and finalized.
Accordingly, effective January 1, 2018, the Company recognizes revenue at the time of shipment to the distributors, adjusted for an estimate of the price adjustments based on management’s review of historical data and other information available at the time.
The Company is evaluating the impact of the adoption on its consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows and disclosures.
The Company generates revenue primarily from product sales, which include assembled and tested integrated circuits, as well as dies in wafer form.
Under certain consignment agreements, revenue is not recognized when the products are held at customers’ designated locations because the Company retains ownership and the customers do not have an unconditional obligation to pay.
The Company recognizes revenue when the customers pull the products from the locations or after a 60-day period lapses, at which time control transfers to the customers and the Company invoices them for payment.
Three U.S.-based distributors have price adjustment rights when they sell the Company’s products to their end customers at a price that is lower than the distribution price invoiced by the Company.
When the Company receives claims from the distributors that products have been sold to the end customers at the lower price, the Company issues the distributors credit memos for the price adjustments.
The Company estimates the price adjustments based on analyses of historical claims, at both the distributor and product level, as well as an assessment of any known trends of product sales mix.
The Company recognizes an asset for product returns which represents the right to recover products from the customers related to stock rotations, with a corresponding reduction to cost of goods sold.
For certain customers located in Asia, the Company requires cash payments two weeks before the products are scheduled to be shipped to the customers.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Company recognized $4.7 million of revenue that was included in the customer prepayment balance as of December 31, 2017.
As of September 30, 2018, the Company’s unsatisfied performance obligations primarily included products held in consignment arrangements and customer purchase orders for products that the Company has not yet shipped.
●   Under Topic 606, the Company recognizes revenue for three U.S.-based distributors upon shipment of the products to them, net of an estimated amount for price adjustments.
Under Topic 605, the Company would have deferred the recognition of revenue and related costs for these U.S. distributors until the Company received notification from the distributors that the products had been sold to the end customers and the amount of price adjustments was fixed and finalized.
●   Under Topic 606, the Company records assets for product returns within other current assets, which primarily represent the carrying value of inventory it expects to recover from customers related to stock rotation returns.
In February 2018, the Compensation Committee granted 44,000 PSUs to certain non-executive employees, which represent a target number of shares to be awarded based on the Company’s 2019 revenue goals for certain regions or product line divisions, or based on the Company’s average two-year (2018 and 2019) revenue growth rate compared against the analog industry’s average two-year revenue growth rate as published by the Semiconductor Industry Association (“2018 Non-Executive PSUs”).
Under Topic 606, “assets for product returns” primarily represent the carrying value of inventory the Company expects to recover from customers related to stock rotation returns.
The Company operates in one reportable segment that includes the design, development, marketing and sale of high-performance analog solutions for the consumer, computing and storage, industrial, automotive and communications markets.
Although the Company may experience a short-term disruption in the distribution of its products and a short-term decline in revenue if its agreement with any of these customers was terminated, the Company believes that such termination would not have a material adverse effect on its financial statements because it would be able to engage alternative distributors, resellers and other distribution channels to deliver its products to end customers within a short period following the termination of the agreement with the customer.
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Company’s effective tax rate included the estimated impact of $18.4 million and $46.2 million, respectively, related to the GILTI provisions that was included as additional subpart F income, which was accounted for as a period cost.
The declaration of any future cash dividends is at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend on, among other things, the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, business conditions, statutory requirements of Delaware law, and other factors that the Board of Directors may deem relevant, as well as a determination that cash dividends are in the best interests of the stockholders.
Subject to the employees’ continued employment with the Company, the 2018 MSUs will fully vest on January 1, 2024 if the pre-determined stock price targets are met during the performance periods and approved by the Compensation Committee.
In October 2018, the Compensation Committee granted 53,000 PSUs to certain non-executive employees, which represent a target number of shares to be awarded based on the Company’s 2020 revenue goals for certain regions or product line divisions, or based on the Company’s average two-year (2019 and 2020) revenue growth rate compared against the analog industry’s average two-year revenue growth rate as published by the Semiconductor Industry Association (“2019 Non-Executive PSUs”).
Furthermore, imposition of tariffs could cause a decrease in the sales of our products to customers located in China or other customers selling to Chinese end users, which would directly impact our business and operating results.
If our customers fail to accept our products as an alternative, if they develop or acquire the technology to develop such components internally rather than purchase our products, or if we are otherwise unable to develop or maintain strong relationships with them, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.
Because we rely on a limited number of customers for significant percentages of our revenue, a decrease in demand or significant pricing pressure for our products from any of our major customers for any reason (including due to competition, market conditions, catastrophic events or otherwise) could have a materially adverse impact on our financial conditions and results of operations.
We receive a significant portion of our revenue from distribution arrangements, value-added resellers and direct customers, and the loss of any one of these distributors, value-added resellers or direct customers or failure to collect a receivable from them could adversely affect our operations and financial position.
Significant deterioration in the liquidity or financial condition of any of our major customers or any group of our customers could have a material adverse impact on the collectability of our accounts receivable and our future operating results.
Any future product delivery delays or disruptions in our relationships with our subcontractors could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows.
Difficulties in implementing new or upgraded information systems or significant system failures could disrupt our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our capital resources, financial condition or results of operations.
If defects and failures occur in our products, we could experience lost revenue, increased costs, including warranty expense and costs associated with customer support, cancellations or rescheduling of orders or shipments, and product returns or discounts, any of which would harm our operating results.
The price and availability of commodities (e.g., gold, copper and silicon) may adversely impact our ability to deliver our products in a timely and cost-effective manner, and may adversely affect our business and results of operations.
If the value of the U.S Dollar rises against other currencies, it may adversely affect the demand for our products in international markets, which could negatively impact our business and results of operations.
In addition, if our customers fail to comply with these regulations, we may be required to suspend sales to these customers, which could negatively impact our results of operations.
Additionally, increased costs to comply with, and other burdens imposed by, the Cyber Security Law and relevant regulations and policies that are applicable to the businesses of our suppliers, vendors and other service providers, as well as our customers, could adversely affect our business and results of operations.
Any additional new regulations or the amendment or modification of previously implemented regulations could require us and our manufacturing partners to change our business plans, increase our costs, or limit our ability to sell products and conduct activities in China, which could adversely affect our business and operating results.
As a result of our lengthy sales cycles, we may incur substantial expenses before we earn associated revenue because a significant portion of our operating expenses is relatively fixed and based on expected revenue.
If customer cancellations or product changes occur, we could lose anticipated sales and not have sufficient time to reduce our inventory and operating expenses.
In addition, if new competitors, technological advances by existing competitors, our entry into new markets, or other competitive factors require us to invest significantly greater resources than anticipated in our research and development efforts, our operating expenses would increase.
We compete with domestic and non-domestic semiconductor companies, many of which have substantially greater financial and other resources with which to pursue engineering, manufacturing, marketing, and distribution of their products.


item2.txt
Revenue from the computing and storage market for the three months ended September 30, 2018 increased $18.6 million, or 64.2%, from the same period in 2017.
Revenue from the computing and storage market for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 increased $41.5 million, or 56.0%, from the same period in 2017.
The increase in gross margin was primarily due to increased sales of higher margin products, lower labor and manufacturing overhead costs and lower amortization expense due to certain intangible assets being fully amortized, partially offset by higher inventory write-downs and net warranty expenses as a percentage of revenue.
The increase in gross margin was primarily due to increased sales of higher margin products, lower labor and manufacturing overhead costs and lower amortization expense due to certain intangible assets being fully amortized, partially offset by higher inventory write-downs as a percentage of revenue.
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, our effective tax rate included the estimated impact of $18.4 million and $46.2 million, respectively, related to the GILTI provisions that was included as additional subpart F income, which was accounted for as a period cost.
For the nine month ended September 30, 2018, net cash provided by operating activities was $93.9 million, primarily due to our net income adjusted for certain non-cash items, including depreciation and amortization and stock-based compensation, and a net decrease of $41.9 million from the changes in our operating assets and liabilities.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2017, net cash provided by operating activities was $80.4 million, primarily due to our net income adjusted for certain non-cash items, including depreciation and amortization and stock-based compensation, and a net decrease of $25.1 million from the changes in our operating assets and liabilities.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, net cash used in financing activities was $21.7 million, primarily reflecting $34.4 million used to pay dividends to our stockholders and dividend equivalents to our employees who hold RSUs, partially offset by $12.7 million of cash proceeds from vesting of RSUs and issuance of shares through our employee stock purchase plan.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2017, net cash used in financing activities was $22.7 million, primarily reflecting $25.3 million used to pay dividends to our stockholders and dividend equivalents to our employees who hold RSUs, partially offset by $2.8 million of cash proceeds from stock option exercises and issuance of shares through our employee stock purchase plan.


part2.txt
These and other economic factors have had, and may in the future have, a material adverse effect on demand for our products and on our financial condition and operating results.
Rising concern of international tariffs, including tariffs applied to goods traded between the United States and China, could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.
Furthermore, imposition of tariffs could cause a decrease in the sales of our products to customers located in China or other customers selling to Chinese end users, which would directly impact our business and operating results.
This could lead to more variability in our operating results and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.
If our customers fail to accept our products as an alternative, if they develop or acquire the technology to develop such components internally rather than purchase our products, or if we are otherwise unable to develop or maintain strong relationships with them, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.
Because we rely on a limited number of customers for significant percentages of our revenue, a decrease in demand or significant pricing pressure for our products from any of our major customers for any reason (including due to competition, market conditions, catastrophic events or otherwise) could have a materially adverse impact on our financial conditions and results of operations.
Our failure to comply with these laws could result in penalties which could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.
We receive a significant portion of our revenue from distribution arrangements, value-added resellers and direct customers, and the loss of any one of these distributors, value-added resellers or direct customers or failure to collect a receivable from them could adversely affect our operations and financial position.
Significant deterioration in the liquidity or financial condition of any of our major customers or any group of our customers could have a material adverse impact on the collectability of our accounts receivable and our future operating results.
If our customers cancel orders after we submit a committed forecast to our suppliers for the corresponding wafers, we may be required to purchase wafers that we may not be able to resell, which would adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and cash flows.
Any future product delivery delays or disruptions in our relationships with our subcontractors could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows.
As we continue to evaluate the potential implications of the 2017 Tax Act on our financial statements, any increase in our income tax expense in future periods could have a material negative impact on our results of operations.
Difficulties in implementing new or upgraded information systems or significant system failures could disrupt our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our capital resources, financial condition or results of operations.
If defects and failures occur in our products, we could experience lost revenue, increased costs, including warranty expense and costs associated with customer support, cancellations or rescheduling of orders or shipments, and product returns or discounts, any of which would harm our operating results.
The price and availability of commodities (e.g., gold, copper and silicon) may adversely impact our ability to deliver our products in a timely and cost-effective manner, and may adversely affect our business and results of operations.
If the value of the U.S Dollar rises against other currencies, it may adversely affect the demand for our products in international markets, which could negatively impact our business and results of operations.
In addition, if our customers fail to comply with these regulations, we may be required to suspend sales to these customers, which could negatively impact our results of operations.
Any additional new regulations or the amendment or modification of previously implemented regulations could require us and our manufacturing partners to change our business plans, increase our costs, or limit our ability to sell products and conduct activities in China, which could adversely affect our business and operating results.
If customer cancellations or product changes occur, we could lose anticipated sales and not have sufficient time to reduce our inventory and operating expenses.
We expect to have to continue to invest heavily in research and development in the future in order to continue to innovate and introduce new products in a timely manner and increase our revenue and profitability.
Also, if we are unable to properly manage and effectively utilize our research and development resources, we could see material adverse effects on our business, financial condition and operating results.
In addition, if new competitors, technological advances by existing competitors, our entry into new markets, or other competitive factors require us to invest significantly greater resources than anticipated in our research and development efforts, our operating expenses would increase.
If we are required to invest significantly greater resources than anticipated in research and development efforts without a corresponding increase in revenue, our operating results could decline.
In order to remain competitive, we anticipate that we will continue to devote substantial resources to research and development, and we expect these expenses to increase in absolute dollars in the foreseeable future due to the increased complexity and the greater number of products under development.
The operation of our business also depends upon our ability to retain these employees, as these employees hold a significant amount of institutional knowledge about us and our products, and, if they were to terminate their employment, our sales and internal control over financial reporting could be adversely affected.
We cannot assure you that our products will continue to compete favorably, or that we will be successful in the face of increasing competition from new products and enhancements introduced by existing competitors or new companies entering this market, which would materially and adversely affect our results of operations and our financial condition.
The declaration of any future cash dividends is at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on, among other things, our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, business conditions, statutory requirements of Delaware law, and other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant, as well as a determination that cash dividends are in the best interests of our stockholders.


