Item 1. Financial Statements.



HARRIS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME







See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).





HARRIS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME







See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).





HARRIS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET







See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).





HARRIS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS







See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).





HARRIS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EQUITY









NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)



Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards 



Basis of Presentation





Amounts contained in this Report may not always add to totals due to rounding.



Reclassifications



The classification of certain prior-period amounts has been adjusted in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) to conform with current-period classifications. Reclassifications include certain direct selling and bid and proposal costs from the “Cost of product sales and services” line item to the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) and in these Notes. 



Use of Estimates



The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and these Notes and related disclosures. These estimates and assumptions are based on experience and other information available prior to issuance of the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and these Notes. Materially different results can occur as circumstances change and additional information becomes known.



Adoption of New Accounting Standards



As discussed above, we adopted ASC 606 effective June 30, 2018. This standard supersedes nearly all revenue recognition guidance under GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards and supersedes some cost guidance for construction-type and production-type contracts. The guidance in this standard is principles-based, and, consequently, entities are required to use more judgment and make more estimates than under prior guidance, including identifying contract performance obligations, estimating variable consideration to include in the contract price and allocating the transaction price to separate performance obligations. The core principle of this standard is that entities should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods and services. To help financial statement users better understand the nature, amount, 





timing and potential uncertainty of the revenue and cash flows, this standard requires significantly more interim and annual disclosures. 



We adopted the requirements of the new standard using the full retrospective transition method. We opted for this transition method because we believe it provides enhanced comparability and transparency across periods. We elected to apply the practical expedient related to backlog disclosures for prior reporting periods and the practical expedient related to evaluating the effects of contract modifications that occurred prior to the earliest period presented. No other transition practical expedients were applied. Retrospective application of this standard resulted in the recognition of a cumulative-effect adjustment of $15 million to reduce the opening balance of retained earnings at July 2, 2016. 

























Accounting Standards Issued But Not Yet Effective



In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued a new lease standard that supersedes existing lease guidance under GAAP. This standard requires, among other things, the recognition of right-of-use assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for most lease arrangements and disclosure of certain information about leasing arrangements. The new standard currently allows two transition methods with certain practical expedients available. Companies may elect to use the modified retrospective approach for leases that exist or are entered into after the beginning of the earliest comparative period in the financial statements or to initially apply this standard at the adoption date and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the period of adoption. This standard is effective for fiscal years, and interim reporting periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018, which for us is our fiscal 2020. 



We expect to adopt the new lease standard on June 29, 2019 by applying the standard at the adoption date and recognizing a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings. We also intend to elect the package of practical expedients permitted by the standard, which, among other things, allows us to carry forward the historical lease classification. The majority of our current lease arrangements are classified as operating leases under existing GAAP lease guidance, and we expect they will continue to be classified as operating leases under the new standard. We have made progress in executing our implementation plan, including identifying our lease population. We are in the process of implementing a new lease management software tool as well as new processes and controls. Once we have configured the new lease management tool and have accumulated compatible lease data, we expect to measure the right-of-use assets and liabilities for leases in effect at the adoption date, which could be material. We do not expect that the adoption of this standard will have a material impact on our results of operations or cash flows.





Note B — Stock Options and Other Share-Based Compensation 



During the three quarters ended March 29, 2019, we had options or other share-based compensation outstanding under two shareholder-approved employee stock incentive plans (“SIPs”), the Harris Corporation 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (As Amended and Restated Effective August 27, 2010) and the Harris Corporation 2015 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2015 EIP”). Grants of share-based awards after October 23, 2015 were made under our 2015 EIP. We believe that share-based awards more closely align the interests of participants with those of shareholders. Certain share-based awards provide for accelerated vesting if there is a change in control (as defined under our SIPs). The compensation cost related to our share-based awards that was charged against income was $14 million and $43 million for the quarter and three quarters ended March 29, 2019, respectively, and $13 million and $37 million for the quarter and three quarters ended March 30, 2018, respectively.





Note C — Restructuring and Other Exit Costs 



We record charges for restructuring and other exit activities related to sales or terminations of product lines, closures or relocations of business activities, changes in management structure and fundamental reorganizations that affect the nature and focus of operations. Such charges include termination benefits, contract termination costs and costs to consolidate facilities or relocate employees. We record these charges at their fair value when incurred. In cases where employees are required to render service until they are terminated in order to receive the termination benefits and will be retained beyond the minimum retention period, we record the expense ratably over the future service period. These charges are included as a component of the “Cost of product sales and services” and “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line items in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited). 



In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, we recorded a $5 million charge for consolidation of certain Exelis Inc. (collectively with its subsidiaries, “Exelis”) facilities initiated in fiscal 2017. This charge is included as a component of the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Consolidated Statement of Income in our Fiscal 2017-2018 Update 8-K. We had liabilities of $16 million and $27 million at March 29, 2019 and June 29, 2018, respectively, associated with this integration activity and with previous restructuring actions. The majority of the remaining liabilities at March 29, 2019 represent lease obligations associated with exited facilities with remaining terms of five years or less. 



Note D — Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss 











Accounting Pronouncements” in our Fiscal 2017-2018 Update 8-K for additional information regarding this accounting standards update.



Note E — Receivables 







We have a receivables sale agreement (“RSA”) with a third-party financial institution that permits us to sell, on a non-recourse basis, up to $50 million of outstanding receivables at any given time. From time to time, we have sold certain customer receivables under the RSA, which we continue to service and collect on behalf of the third-party financial institution. Receivables sold pursuant to the RSA meet the requirements for sales accounting under ASC 860, Transfers and Servicing, and, accordingly, are derecognized from our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited) at the time of sale. Outstanding accounts receivable sold pursuant to the RSA were not material at March 29, 2019 and June 29, 2018. Impairment losses related to receivables from contracts with customers were not material during the quarter or three quarters ended March 29, 2019 or the quarter or three quarters ended March 30, 2018.



Note F — Contract Assets and Contract Liabilities 



 Contract assets include unbilled amounts typically resulting from revenue recognized exceeding amounts billed to customers for contracts utilizing the percentage of completion (“POC”) cost-to-cost revenue recognition method. We bill customers as work progresses in accordance with agreed-upon contractual terms, either at periodic intervals, upon achievement of contractual milestones or upon deliveries and, in certain arrangements, the customer may withhold payment of a small portion of the contract price until contract completion. Contract liabilities include advance payments and billings in excess of revenue recognized, including deferred revenue associated with extended product warranties. Contract assets and liabilities are reported on a contract-by-contract basis at the end of each reporting period. The increase in contract liabilities in the three quarters ended March 29, 2019 was primarily due to an increase in the receipt of advance payments and the timing of contractual billing milestones. Changes in contract assets and contract liabilities balances during the quarter and three quarters ended March 29, 2019 were not materially impacted by any factors other than those described above.















Impairment losses related to our contract assets were not material during the quarter or three quarters ended March 29, 2019 or the quarter or three quarters ended March 30, 2018. For the quarter and three quarters ended March 29, 2019, we recognized revenue of $52 million and $259 million, respectively, related to contract liabilities that were outstanding at June 29, 2018. For the quarter and three quarters ended March 30, 2018, we recognized revenue of $24 million and $187 million, respectively, related to contract liabilities that were outstanding at June 30, 2017.





Note G — Inventories 







Note H — Property, Plant and Equipment 







Depreciation and amortization expense related to property, plant and equipment was $34 million and $102 million for the quarter and three quarters ended March 29, 2019, respectively, and $33 million and $106 million for the quarter and three quarters ended March 30, 2018, respectively. 



Note I — Accrued Warranties 







We also sell extended product warranties and recognize revenue from these arrangements over the warranty period. Costs of warranty services under these arrangements are recognized as incurred and are included as a component of the “Contract liabilities” and “Other long-term liabilities” line items in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited). Deferred revenue associated with extended product warranties was $24 million at March 29, 2019 and $16 million at June 29, 2018.





Note J — Postretirement Benefit Plans 









The service cost component of net periodic benefit income is included in the “Cost of product sales and services” and “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line items in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited). The non-service cost components of net periodic pension income are included in the “Non-operating income” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited). 



We contributed $301 million to our qualified defined benefit pensions plans during the quarter and three quarters ended March 30, 2018, including a $300 million voluntary contribution to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans in the quarter ended March 30, 2018. As a result of this voluntary contribution as well as a $400 million voluntary contribution made during fiscal 2017, we made no contributions to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans during the quarter and three quarters ended March 29, 2019, and we currently anticipate making no contributions to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans and minor contributions to a non-U.S. pension plan during the remainder of fiscal 2019. 



The U.S. Salaried Retirement Plan (“U.S. SRP”), a U.S. qualified pension plan, is our largest defined benefit pension plan, with assets valued at $4.6 billion and a projected benefit obligation of $5.2 billion as of June 29, 2018. Effective December 31, 2016, accruals under the U.S. SRP benefit formula were frozen for all employees and replaced with a 1% cash balance benefit formula for certain employees who were not highly compensated on December 31, 2016.





Note K — Income From Continuing Operations Per Share 







Potential dilutive common shares primarily consist of employee stock options and restricted and performance unit awards. Income from continuing operations per diluted common share excludes the antidilutive impact of 265,652 and 275,021 weighted average share-based awards outstanding for the quarter and three quarters ended March 29, 2019, respectively, and 30,670 and 64,554 weighted average share-based awards outstanding for the quarter and three quarters ended March 30, 2018, respectively. 



Note L — Income Taxes  



On December 22, 2017, H.R.1, also known as the “Tax Cuts and Jobs Act,” was signed into U.S. law (“Tax Act”). Among other provisions, the Tax Act reduced the U.S. statutory corporate income tax rate from a maximum 35 percent to a flat 21 percent, effective January 1, 2018. During the quarter ended December 28, 2018, we completed our accounting for the income tax impact of enactment of the Tax Act, based on prevailing regulations and available information as of December 28, 2018, and there were no material changes from the estimates reported in our Fiscal 2017-2018 Update 8-K. We will continue to monitor additional guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service.



Effective Tax Rate



Our effective tax rate (income taxes as a percentage of income from continuing operations before income taxes) was 14.1 percent in the quarter ended March 29, 2019 compared with 4.8 percent in the quarter ended March 30, 2018. In the quarter ended March 29, 2019, our effective tax rate benefited from the favorable impact of excess tax benefits related to equity-based compensation and from favorable adjustments recorded upon the filing of our Federal tax returns. In the quarter ended March 30, 2018, our effective tax rate benefited from a $33 million ($.27 per diluted share) adjustment to the provisional amount recorded in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 to revalue our net deferred tax balances as a result of the Tax Act. Additionally, our effective tax rate for the quarter ended March 30, 2018 benefited from the favorable impact of excess tax benefits related to equity-based compensation.







Note M — Fair Value Measurements 





•Level 1 — Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.



•Level 2 — Observable inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1, including quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active; and inputs other than quoted prices that are observable or are derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data by correlation or other means.



•Level 3 — Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity, are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities, and reflect our own assumptions about the assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability developed using the best information available in the circumstances.



In certain instances, fair value is estimated using quoted market prices obtained from external pricing services. In obtaining such data from the external pricing services, we have evaluated the methodologies used to develop the estimate of fair value in order to assess whether such valuations are representative of fair value, including net asset value (“NAV”). Additionally, in certain circumstances, the NAV reported by an asset manager may be adjusted when sufficient evidence indicates NAV is not representative of fair value.

























Note N — Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities 



In the normal course of business, we are exposed to global market risks, including the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Additionally, during January 2019, we entered into a yield-based treasury lock agreement with a third-party financial institution counterparty (“treasury lock”) to hedge against fluctuations in interest payments due to changes in the benchmark interest rate (10-year U.S. Treasury rate) associated with our anticipated issuance of long-term fixed-rate notes (“New Notes”) to redeem or repay at maturity the entire $400 million outstanding principal amount of our 2.7% Notes due April 27, 2020 (“2020 Notes”). We use derivative instruments to manage our exposure to such risks and formally document all relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as the risk-management objective and strategy for undertaking hedge transactions. We also may enter into derivative instruments that are not designated as hedges and do not qualify for hedge accounting. We recognize all derivatives in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited) at fair value. We do not hold or issue derivatives for speculative trading purposes.



At March 29, 2019, we had open foreign currency forward contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $9 million, of which $5 million were classified as cash flow hedges and $4 million was classified as a fair value hedge. This compares with open foreign currency forward contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $39 million at June 29, 2018, of which $35 million were classified as cash flow hedges and $4 million was classified as a fair value hedge. At March 29, 2019, contract expiration dates ranged from 17 days to approximately 3 months with a weighted average contract life of 2 months. 



At March 29, 2019, we also had an open treasury lock agreement with a notional amount of $400 million that was classified as a cash flow hedge.



Exchange-Rate Risk — Fair Value Hedges



We use foreign currency forward contracts and options to hedge certain balance sheet items, including foreign currency denominated accounts receivable and inventory. Changes in the value of the derivatives and the related hedged items are reflected in earnings, in the “Cost of product sales and services” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited). At March 29, 2019, we had an outstanding foreign currency forward contract denominated in the Canadian Dollar to hedge a certain balance sheet item. The net gains or losses on foreign currency forward contracts designated as fair value hedges were not material in the quarter or three quarters ended March 29, 2019 or in the quarter or three quarters ended March 30, 2018. In addition, no amounts were recognized in earnings in the quarter or three quarters ended March 29, 2019 or in the quarter or three quarters ended March 30, 2018 related to hedged firm commitments that no longer qualify as fair value hedges. 



Exchange-Rate Risk — Cash Flow Hedges



We use foreign currency forward contracts and options to hedge off-balance sheet future foreign currency commitments and also have hedged U.S. Dollar payments to suppliers to maintain our anticipated profit margins in our international operations. At March 29, 2019, we had outstanding foreign currency forward contracts denominated in British Pounds and the Australian Dollar to hedge certain forecasted transactions. The net gains or losses from cash flow hedges recognized in earnings or recorded in other comprehensive income, including gains or losses related to hedge ineffectiveness, were not material in the quarter or three quarters ended March 29, 2019 or in the quarter or three quarters ended March 30, 2018. 



Interest-Rate Risk — Cash Flow Hedges 



As noted above, in anticipation of the issuance of the New Notes to redeem or repay at maturity the 2020 Notes, we entered into a treasury lock with a notional value of $400 million. We designated the treasury lock as a cash flow hedge against fluctuations in interest payments on the New Notes due to changes in the benchmark interest rate prior to issuance, which we expect to occur between August 2019 and April 2020. If the benchmark interest rate increases during the period of the agreement, the treasury lock position will become an asset and we will receive a cash payment from the counterparty when we terminate the treasury lock upon issuance of the New Notes. Conversely, if the benchmark interest rate decreases, the treasury lock position will become a liability and we will make a cash payment to the counterparty when we terminate the treasury lock 





upon issuance of the New Notes. The fair value of the treasury lock is measured using a pricing model that utilizes observable market data such as the benchmark interest rate. See Note M — Fair Value Measurements in these Notes for additional information.



At March 29, 2019, the fair value of the treasury lock was a liability of $11 million, which we recorded in the “Other accrued items” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited) with a corresponding unrealized after-tax loss of $8 million in the “Accumulated other comprehensive loss” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited) representing the effective portion of the treasury lock’s change in fair value during the quarter ended March 29, 2019. The ineffective portion of the treasury lock’s change in fair value was immaterial during the quarter ended March 29, 2019. 



Note O — Changes in Estimates 



Contract Estimates 



 Under the POC cost-to-cost method of revenue recognition, a single estimated profit margin is used to recognize profit for each performance obligation over its period of performance. Recognition of profit on a contract requires estimates of the total cost at completion and transaction price and the measurement of progress towards completion. Due to the long-term nature of many of our contracts, developing the estimated total cost at completion and total transaction price often requires judgment. Factors that must be considered in estimating the cost of the work to be completed include the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, subcontractor performance and the risk and impact of delayed performance. Factors that must be considered in estimating the total transaction price include contractual cost or performance incentives (such as incentive fees, award fees and penalties) and other forms of variable consideration as well as our historical experience and expectation for performance on the contract. At the outset of each contract, we gauge its complexity and perceived risks and establish an estimated total cost at completion in line with these expectations. After establishing the estimated total cost at completion, we follow a standard Estimate at Completion (“EAC”) process in which we review the progress and performance on our ongoing contracts at least quarterly and, in many cases, more frequently. If we successfully retire risks associated with the technical, schedule and cost aspects of a contract, we may lower our estimated total cost at completion commensurate with the retirement of these risks. Conversely, if we are not successful in retiring these risks, we may increase our estimated total cost at completion. Additionally, as the contract progresses, our estimates of total transaction price may increase or decrease if, for example, we receive award fees that are higher or lower than expected. When adjustments in estimated total costs at completion or in estimated total transaction price are determined, the related impact on operating income is recognized using the cumulative catch-up method, which recognizes in the current period the cumulative effect of such adjustments for all prior periods. Any anticipated losses on these contracts are fully recognized in the period in which the losses become evident.



Net EAC adjustments resulting from changes in estimates impacted our operating income favorably by $6 million ($4 million after-tax or $.03 per diluted share) and $5 million ($4 million after-tax or $.03 per diluted share) for the quarter and three quarters ended March 29, 2019, respectively, and unfavorably by $4 million ($3 million after-tax or $.02 per diluted share) and $15 million ($11 million after-tax or $.09 per diluted share) for the quarter and three quarters ended March 30, 2018, respectively. Revenue recognized from performance obligations satisfied in prior periods was $18 million and $34 million for the quarter and three quarters ended March 29, 2019, respectively, and $5 million and $35 million for the quarter and three quarters ended March 30, 2018, respectively. 



Income Taxes



 See Note L — Income Taxes in these Notes for changes in estimates disclosures associated with our accounting for income taxes.



Note P — Backlog



Backlog, which is the equivalent of our remaining performance obligations, represents the future revenue we expect to recognize as we perform on our current contracts. Backlog comprises both funded backlog (i.e., firm orders for which funding is authorized and appropriated) and unfunded backlog. Backlog excludes unexercised contract options and potential orders under ordering-type contracts, such as indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity contracts. 



At March 29, 2019, our ending backlog was $8.5 billion. We expect to recognize approximately half of the revenue associated with this backlog within the next twelve months and the substantial majority of the revenue associated with this backlog within the next 3 years. 



Note Q — Business Segment Information 







•Communication Systems, serving markets in tactical communications and defense products, including tactical ground and airborne radio communications solutions and night vision technology, and in public safety networks; 



•Electronic Systems, providing electronic warfare, avionics, and command, control, communications, computers, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (“C4ISR”) solutions for defense and classified customers and mission-critical communication systems for civil and military aviation and other customers; and 



•Space and Intelligence Systems, providing intelligence, space protection, geospatial, complete Earth observation, universe exploration, positioning, navigation and timing (“PNT”), and environmental solutions for national security, defense, civil and commercial customers, using advanced sensors, antennas and payloads, as well as ground processing and information analytics. 





We evaluate each segment’s performance based on segment operating income or loss, which we define as profit or loss from operations before income taxes, including pension income and excluding interest income and expense, royalties and related intellectual property expenses, equity method investment income or loss and gains or losses from securities and other investments. Intersegment sales are generally transferred at cost to the buying segment, and the sourcing segment recognizes a profit that is eliminated. The “Corporate eliminations” line item in the table below represents the elimination of intersegment sales. The “Unallocated corporate expense and corporate eliminations” line item in the table below represents the portion of corporate expenses not allocated to our business segments and the elimination of intersegment profits. The “Pension adjustment” line item in the table below represents the reconciliation of the non-service components of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit costs, which are a component of segment operating income but are included in the “Non-operating income” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) as a result of our adoption of ASU 2017-07 as discussed in Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards in these Notes. The non-service components of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit costs include interest cost, expected return on plan assets and amortization of net actuarial gain. 











Disaggregation of Revenue

































Note R — Legal Proceedings and Contingencies 





Merger Litigation 



In connection with our pending merger with L3 (see Note S — Pending Merger in these Notes for additional information), two putative class action lawsuits and one individual lawsuit were filed against L3 and its directors (together, the “L3 Parties”) in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York between December 19, 2018 and January 15, 2019, and a third putative class action lawsuit, Kent v. L3 Technologies, Inc., et al., was filed against the L3 Parties and Harris Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiary, Leopard Merger Sub Inc. (Harris Corporation and Leopard Merger Sub Inc., the “Harris Parties”), in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware on January 4, 2019. The complaints in the lawsuits contained substantially similar allegations contending, among other things, that the registration statement on Form S-4 in support of the pending merger misstated or failed to disclose certain allegedly material information in violation of federal securities laws. The complaint in the Kent lawsuit further alleged that the Harris Parties were liable for these violations as “controlling persons” of L3 within the meaning of federal securities laws. On March 12, 2019, the parties to the actions entered into an agreement to settle all claims that were or could have been alleged in the action subject to, among other things, the supplementation by L3 of certain disclosures contained in the registration statement, which were reflected in a Current Report on Form 8-K filed by L3 with the SEC on March 13, 2019, and the dismissal of the four lawsuits, all of which were dismissed by March 18, 2019. 



Environmental Matters 









Note S — Pending Merger 



On October 14, 2018, we announced that on October 12, 2018, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”), with L3 and Leopard Merger Sub Inc., our wholly owned subsidiary (“Merger Sub”), pursuant to which we and L3 have agreed to combine in an all-stock merger of equals. Under the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement, L3 shareholders will receive a fixed exchange ratio of 1.30 shares of Harris common stock for each share of L3 common stock. Upon closing of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, Harris Corporation will be re-named “L3 Harris Technologies, Inc.” and Merger Sub will merge with and into L3, with L3 being the surviving corporation and becoming a wholly-owned subsidiary of L3 Harris Technologies, Inc. (“L3 Harris”), which will be owned on a fully diluted basis approximately 54 percent by Harris shareholders and 46 percent by L3 shareholders. Upon closing, the merger will be accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting, and Harris will be treated as the accounting acquirer. The Merger Agreement has been unanimously approved by the Board of Directors of each company. 



The consummation of the merger is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain conditions, including, among others, the expiration or earlier termination of any applicable waiting period and the receipt of approvals under domestic and certain foreign antitrust and competition laws, including the expiration of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended (the “HSR Act”). In connection with the proposed merger, we and L3 each filed a Notification and Report Form under the HSR Act (an “HSR Notification”) with the U.S. Federal Trade Commission and the DOJ on November 9, 2018. We voluntarily withdrew our HSR Notification effective as of December 10, 2018 and re-filed our HSR Notification on December 11, 2018. As part of the DOJ’s review of the merger, we and L3 each received on January 10, 2019 a request for additional information and documentary materials (the “Second Request”) from the DOJ, which extends the waiting period under the HSR Act until 30 days after both we and L3 have complied with the Second Request or such later time as the parties may agree with the DOJ, unless the waiting period is terminated earlier. We and L3 continue to work cooperatively with the DOJ on its review of the merger. We and L3 continue to expect the merger to close in the previously announced time frame of mid-calendar year 2019, although we can give no assurances regarding the timing or occurrence of closing. 



See Note T — Subsequent Events in these Notes for subsequent events disclosures associated with the merger.



L3 is a prime contractor in intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (“ISR”) systems, aircraft sustainment (including modifications and fleet management of special mission aircraft), simulation and training, night vision and image intensification equipment and security and detection systems headquartered in New York, New York. L3 is also a provider of a broad range of communication, electronic and sensor systems used on military, homeland security and commercial platforms. L3 employs approximately 31,000 employees and its customers include the U.S. Department of Defense and its prime contractors, U.S. government intelligence agencies, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, foreign governments and domestic and commercial customers. L3 generated calendar 2018 revenue of approximately $10 billion. 



The foregoing description of the Merger Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby is not complete and is subject to, and qualified in its entirety by reference to, the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of October 12, 2018, by and among L3, us, and Merger Sub, a copy of which was filed as an exhibit to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on October 16, 2018.





Note T — Subsequent Events 





Also on April 4, 2019, we entered into a definitive agreement under which we will sell our Night Vision business to Elbit Systems of America, LLC, a subsidiary of Elbit Systems Ltd., for $350 million in cash, subject to customary purchase price adjustments as set forth in the definitive agreement. The sale transaction is conditioned on completion of our pending merger with L3 pursuant to the Merger Agreement, as well as customary closing conditions, including receipt of regulatory approvals. We expect to use the proceeds from the sale of our Night Vision business to pre-fund L3 Harris pension plans and return cash to shareholders. Our Night Vision business is a global supplier of high-performance, vision-enhancing products for U.S. and allied military and security forces and commercial customers. Because the sale transaction is conditioned on completion of our pending merger with L3, the assets and liabilities of our Night Vision business were not classified as held for sale in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited) at March 29, 2019. 





REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 



To the Shareholders and Board of Directors of Harris Corporation



Results of Review of Interim Financial Statements 



We have reviewed the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet of Harris Corporation (the Company) as of March 29, 2019, the related condensed consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, and equity for the quarter and three quarters ended March 29, 2019 and March 30, 2018, the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows for the three quarters ended March 29, 2019 and March 30, 2018, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the “condensed consolidated interim financial statements”). Based on our reviews, we are not aware of any material modifications that should be made to the condensed consolidated interim financial statements for them to be in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. 



We have previously audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the consolidated balance sheet of the Company as of June 29, 2018, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, cash flows and equity for the year then ended, and the related notes and financial statement schedule (not presented herein); and in our report dated August 27, 2018, except for the retrospective changes for revenue and periodic pension and postretirement benefit costs described in Note 2 and the subsequent event described in Note 25 as to which the date is December 13, 2018, we expressed an unqualified audit opinion on those consolidated financial statements. In our opinion, the information set forth in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet as of June 29, 2018, is fairly stated, in all material respects, in relation to the consolidated balance sheet from which it has been derived. 



Basis for Review Results 



These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the SEC and the PCAOB. We conducted our review in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. A review of interim financial statements consists principally of applying analytical procedures and making inquiries of persons responsible for financial and accounting matters. It is substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB, the objective of which is the expression of an opinion regarding the financial statements taken as a whole. Accordingly, we do not express such an opinion.





Orlando, Florida







Item 1. Legal Proceedings.





Merger Litigation. As described in Note R — Legal Proceedings and Contingencies in the Notes, in connection with our pending merger with L3 (see Note S — Pending Merger in the Notes for additional information), two putative class action lawsuits and one individual lawsuit were filed against the L3 Parties in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York between December 19, 2018 and January 15, 2019, and a third putative class action lawsuit, Kent v. L3 Technologies, Inc., et al., was filed against the L3 Parties and the Harris Parties in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware on January 4, 2019. The complaints in the lawsuits contained substantially similar allegations contending, among other things, that the registration statement on Form S-4 in support of the pending merger misstated or failed to disclose certain allegedly material information in violation of federal securities laws. The complaint in the Kent lawsuit further alleged that the Harris Parties were liable for these violations as “controlling persons” of L3 within the meaning of federal securities laws. On March 12, 2019, the parties to the actions entered into an agreement to settle all claims that were or could have been alleged in the action subject to, among other things, the supplementation by L3 of certain disclosures contained in the registration statement, which were reflected in a Current Report on Form 8-K filed by L3 with the SEC on March 13, 2019, and the dismissal of the four lawsuits, all of which were dismissed by March 18, 2019. 



Tax Audits. Our tax filings are subject to audit by taxing authorities in jurisdictions where we conduct or conducted business. These audits may result in assessments of additional taxes that are subsequently resolved with the authorities or ultimately through legal proceedings. We believe we have adequately accrued for any ultimate amounts that are likely to result from these audits; however, final assessments, if any, could be different from the amounts recorded in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).



Item 1A. Risk Factors.



Investors should carefully review and consider the information regarding certain factors that could materially affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows as set forth under Item 1A. “Risk Factors” in our Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K. Except as set forth below in this Item 1A. “Risk Factors,” we do not believe that there have been any material changes to the risk factors previously disclosed in our Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K. We may disclose changes to such risk factors or disclose additional risk factors from time to time in our future filings with the SEC. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe not to be material also may adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.





•Because the exchange ratio is fixed and will not be adjusted in the event of any change in either our or L3’s stock price, the value of the shares of the combined company is uncertain.



•The market price for shares of common stock of the combined company following the completion of the merger may be affected by factors different from, or in addition to, those that historically have affected or currently affect the market prices of shares of our common stock and L3 common stock.



•The shares of common stock of the combined company to be received by L3 stockholders as a result of the merger will have rights different from the shares of L3 common stock.



•Our stockholders and L3 stockholders will each have reduced ownership and voting interest in and will exercise less influence over management of the combined company.





•Until the completion of the merger or the termination of the merger agreement in accordance with its terms, we and L3 are each prohibited from entering into certain transactions and taking certain actions that might otherwise be beneficial to us or L3 and our respective stockholders.



•Obtaining required approvals and satisfying closing conditions may prevent or delay completion of the merger.



•We and L3 must obtain certain regulatory approvals and clearances to consummate the merger, which, if delayed, not granted or granted with unacceptable conditions, could prevent, substantially delay or impair consummation of the merger, result in additional expenditures of money and resources or reduce the anticipated benefits of the merger.



•Failure to attract, motivate and retain executives and other key employees could diminish the anticipated benefits of the merger.



•The merger, including uncertainty regarding the merger, may cause customers, suppliers or strategic partners to delay or defer decisions concerning us and L3 and adversely affect each company’s ability to effectively manage their respective businesses.



•The opinions rendered to us and L3 from our respective financial advisors will not reflect changes in circumstances between the dates of such opinions and the completion of the merger.



•Whether or not the merger is completed, the announcement and pendency of the merger could cause disruptions in the businesses of us and L3, which could have an adverse effect on our respective businesses and financial results.



•The merger agreement may be terminated in accordance with its terms and the merger may not be consummated.



•The termination of the merger agreement could negatively impact us or L3.



•The directors and executive officers of us and L3 have interests and arrangements that may be different from, or in addition to, those of our and L3 stockholders generally.



•We or L3 may waive one or more of the closing conditions without re-soliciting stockholder approval.



•The merger agreement contains provisions that could discourage a potential competing acquirer that might be willing to pay more to acquire or merge with either us or L3.



•We and L3 each will incur significant transaction, merger-related and restructuring costs in connection with the merger.



•Our stockholders and L3 stockholders will not be entitled to appraisal rights in the merger.



•Litigation filed against the L3 Parties and the Harris Parties could prevent or delay the consummation of the merger or result in the payment of damages following completion of the merger.



•The failure to successfully combine the businesses of us and L3 may adversely affect the combined company’s future results.



•The combined company may not be able to retain customers or suppliers or customers or suppliers may seek to modify contractual obligations with the combined company, which could have an adverse effect on the combined company’s business and operations.



•The combined company may be exposed to increased litigation, which could have an adverse effect on the combined company’s business and operations.



•Combining the businesses of us and L3 may be more difficult, costly or time-consuming than expected and the combined company may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger, which may adversely affect the combined company’s business results and negatively affect the value of the common stock of the combined company following the merger.



•The failure to integrate successfully the businesses and operations of us and L3 in the expected time frame may adversely affect the combined company’s future results.



•Our and L3’s unaudited prospective financial information is inherently subject to uncertainties, the unaudited pro forma financial data included in our Form S-4 registration statement related to the proposed merger is preliminary and the combined company’s actual financial position and results of operations after the merger may differ materially from those estimates and the unaudited pro forma financial data included in such registration statement. Specifically, the unaudited pro forma combined financial data does not reflect the effect of any divestitures that may be required in connection with the merger.



•The revenue of the combined company will depend on our and L3’s ability to maintain certain levels of government business. The loss of contracts with U.S. and non-U.S. government agencies could adversely affect the combined company’s revenue.



•Third parties may terminate or alter existing contracts or relationships with us or L3.



•The combined company may be unable to retain our and L3 personnel successfully after the merger is completed.



•The combined company’s debt may limit its financial flexibility.



•Declaration, payment and amounts of dividends, if any, distributed to stockholders of the combined company will be uncertain.





These risks are discussed more fully in the registration statement on Form S-4 we filed with the SEC on December 14, 2018, which the SEC declared effective on February 20, 2019. 



