Item 1. Financial Statements.



HARRIS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME







See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).





HARRIS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME







See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).





HARRIS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET







See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).





HARRIS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS







See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).





HARRIS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EQUITY







See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).





NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)



Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards 



Basis of Presentation



The accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) include the accounts of Harris Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. As used in these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) (these “Notes”), the terms “Harris,” “Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” refer to Harris Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. Intracompany transactions and accounts have been eliminated in consolidation. The accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) have been prepared by Harris, without an audit, in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) for interim financial information and with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Accordingly, such interim financial statements do not include all information and footnotes necessary for a complete presentation of financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in conformity with GAAP for annual financial statements. In the opinion of management, such interim financial statements reflect all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring adjustments) considered necessary for a fair presentation of our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows for the periods presented therein. The results for the quarter ended September 28, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the full fiscal year or any subsequent period. The balance sheet at June 29, 2018 has been derived from our audited financial statements and reflects the adoption of Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), as amended (“ASC 606”), as described below under “Adoption of New Accounting Standards.” The balance sheet at June 29, 2018 does not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP for annual financial statements. We provide complete, audited financial statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, which includes information and footnotes required by the rules and regulations of the SEC. The information included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (this “Report”) should be read in conjunction with the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 29, 2018 (our “Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K”).



Amounts contained in this Report may not always add to totals due to rounding.



Reclassifications



The classification of certain prior-period amounts has been adjusted in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) to conform with current-period classifications. Reclassifications include certain direct selling and bid and proposal costs from the “Cost of product sales and services” line item to the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) and in these Notes. 



Use of Estimates



The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and these Notes and related disclosures. These estimates and assumptions are based on experience and other information available prior to issuance of the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and these Notes. Materially different results can occur as circumstances change and additional information becomes known.



Significant Accounting Policies Update





Effective June 30, 2018, we adopted ASC 606 using the full retrospective method. Refer to the Adoption of New Accounting Standards section below for additional information. The significant accounting policies disclosed below reflect the impact of our adoption of ASC 606.



Revenue Recognition 



We account for a contract when it has approval and commitment from all parties, the rights and payment terms of the parties can be identified, the contract has commercial substance and the collectibility of the consideration, or transaction price, is probable. Our contracts are often subsequently modified to include changes in specifications, requirements or price that may create new or change existing enforceable rights and obligations. We do not account for contract modifications (including unexercised options) or follow-on contracts until they meet the requirements noted above to account for a contract.







As discussed above, our contracts are often subsequently modified to include changes in specifications, requirements or price. Depending on the nature of the modification, we consider whether to account for the modification as an adjustment to the existing contract or as a separate contract. Often, the deliverables in our contract modifications are not distinct from the existing contract due to the significant integration and interrelated tasks provided in the context of the contract. Therefore, such modifications are accounted for as if they were part of the existing contract, and we may be required to recognize a cumulative catch-up adjustment to revenue at the date of the contract modification.



We determine the transaction price for each contract based on our best estimate of the consideration we expect to receive, which includes assumptions regarding variable consideration, such as award and incentive fees. These variable amounts are generally awarded upon achievement of certain negotiated performance metrics, program milestones or cost targets and can be based upon customer discretion. We include such estimated amounts in the transaction price to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is resolved. We estimate variable consideration primarily using the most likely amount method.



For contracts with multiple performance obligations, we allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation based on the relative standalone selling price of the good or service underlying each performance obligation. The standalone selling price represents the amount for which we would sell the good or service to a customer on a standalone basis (i.e., not sold as a bundle with any other products or services). Our contracts with the U.S. Government, including foreign military sales contracts, are subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulations (“FAR”) and the prices of our contract deliverables are typically based on our estimated or actual costs plus a reasonable profit margin. As a result, the standalone selling prices of the goods and services in these contracts are typically equal to the selling prices stated in the contract, thereby, eliminating the need to allocate (or reallocate) the transaction price to the multiple performance obligations. In our non-U.S. Government contracts, we also generally use the expected cost plus a margin approach to determine standalone selling price. In addition, we determine standalone selling price for certain contracts that are commercial in nature based on observable selling prices. 



We recognize revenue for each performance obligation when (or as) the performance obligation is satisfied by transferring control of the promised goods or services underlying the performance obligation to the customer. The transfer of control can occur over time or at a point in time. 





•The customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided by our performance as we perform;



•Our performance creates or enhances an asset (for example, work in process) that the customer controls as the asset is created or enhanced; or



•Our performance does not create an asset with an alternative use to us, and we have an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date.



As noted above, a significant amount of our revenue is derived from contracts to provide multiple distinct goods to a customer that are commercial in nature and can readily be sold to other customers. These arrangements are most prevalent in our Communication Systems segment and primarily involve the sale of secure tactical radios and accessories and other standard products. These performance obligations do not meet any of the three criteria listed above to recognize revenue over time; therefore, we recognize revenue at a point in time, generally when the goods are received and accepted by the customer.







Our non-U.S. Government development and production contracts, including international direct commercial contracts and U.S. contracts with state and local agencies, utilities and commercial and transportation organizations, often do not include the FAR clauses described above. However, over time revenue recognition is typically supported either through our performance creating or enhancing an asset that the customer controls as it is created or enhanced or based on other contractual provisions or relevant laws that provide us with an enforceable right to payment for our work performed to date plus a reasonable profit if our customer were permitted to and did terminate the contract for reasons other than our failure to perform as promised.



Revenue for our development and production contracts is recognized over time, typically using the percentage of completion (“POC”) cost-to-cost method, whereby we measure our progress towards completion of the performance obligation based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to estimated costs at completion under the contract. Because costs incurred represent work performed, we believe this method best depicts transfer of control of the asset to the customer. 



For performance obligations to provide services that are satisfied over time, we generally recognize revenue on a straight-line basis or based on the right-to-invoice method (i.e., based on our right to bill the customer). Because these methods closely reflect the value of the services transferred to the customer, we believe these methods best depict transfer of control to the customer.





Net EAC adjustments resulting from changes in estimates unfavorably impacted our operating income by $3 million ($2 million after-tax or $.02 per diluted share) and favorably by $5 million ($3 million after-tax or $.02 per diluted share) for the quarters ended September 28, 2018 and September 29, 2017, respectively. Revenue recognized from performance obligations satisfied in prior periods was $7 million and $14 million for the quarters ended September 28, 2018 and September 29, 2017, respectively. 









orders under ordering-type contracts, such as indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity (“IDIQ”) contracts. 



At September 28, 2018, our ending backlog was $7.9 billion. We expect to recognize approximately half of the revenue associated with this backlog within the next twelve months and the substantial majority of the revenue associated with this backlog within the next 3 years. 





Contract assets related to amounts withheld by customers until contract completion are not considered a significant financing component of our contracts because the intent is to protect the customers from our failure to satisfactorily complete our performance obligations. Payments received from customers in advance of revenue recognition are not considered a significant financing component of our contracts because they are utilized to pay for contract costs within a one-year period or are requested by us to ensure the customers meet their payment obligations. See Note G — Contract Assets and Contract Liabilities in these Notes for additional information.





Adoption of New Accounting Standards



As discussed above, we adopted ASC 606 effective June 30, 2018. This standard supersedes nearly all revenue recognition guidance under GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards and supersedes some cost guidance for construction-type and production-type contracts. The guidance in this standard is principles-based, and, consequently, entities are required to use more judgment and make more estimates than under prior guidance, including identifying contract performance obligations, estimating variable consideration to include in the contract price and allocating the transaction price to separate performance obligations. The core principle of this standard is that entities should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods and services. To help financial statement users better understand the nature, amount, timing and potential uncertainty of the revenue and cash flows, this standard requires significantly more interim and annual disclosures. We have adopted the requirements of the new standard using the full retrospective method, which means that we have restated each prior reporting period presented and recognized the cumulative effect of applying the standard at the earliest period presented. We opted for this adoption method because we believe it provides enhanced comparability and transparency across periods. We elected to apply the practical expedient related to backlog disclosures for prior reporting periods. We also elected to apply the practical expedient related to evaluating the effects of contract modifications that occurred prior to the earliest period presented. No other transition practical expedients were applied. 



Adopting this standard resulted in the recognition of a cumulative-effect adjustment of $15 million to reduce the opening balance of retained earnings at July 2, 2016. Our full year fiscal 2017 revenue from product sales and services decreased by $3 million and our income from continuing operations decreased by $10 million ($.08 per share). Our full year fiscal 2018 revenue from product sales and services decreased by $14 million and our income from continuing operations decreased by $19 million ($.15 per share). This standard also resulted in the establishment of “Contract assets” and “Contract liabilities” line items and the reclassification to these line items of amounts previously presented in the “Receivables,” “Inventories” and “Advanced payments and unearned income” line items in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited). Total net cash provided by operating activities and total net cash provided by or used in investing activities and financing activities in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited) were not impacted by the adoption of ASC 606. These 





amounts are reflected in the tables below and are updated from the preliminary assessment of the impacts of adopting ASC 606 included in our fiscal 2018 Form 10-K. 



























Accounting Standards Issued But Not Yet Effective



In February 2016, the FASB issued a new lease standard that supersedes existing lease guidance under GAAP. This standard requires, among other things, the recognition of right-of-use assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for all leases longer than 12 months and disclosure of certain information about leasing arrangements. The standard currently allows two transition methods whereby companies may elect to use the modified retrospective approach for leases that exist or are entered into after the beginning of the earliest comparative period in the financial statements, with certain practical expedients available, or to initially apply the standard at the adoption date and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the period of adoption. This standard is effective for fiscal years, and interim reporting periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018, which for us is our fiscal 2020. We continue to evaluate the impact this standard will have on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, which could be material, and we have not yet made a decision on the adoption method, as this determination is primarily dependent on the completion of our analysis.



Note B — Discontinued Operations  



We completed two significant divestitures during fiscal 2017, the divestiture of our government IT services business (“IT Services”) and the divestiture of our Harris CapRock Communications commercial business (“CapRock”). These divestitures individually and collectively represented a strategic shift away from non-core markets (for example, energy, maritime and government IT services). The decision to divest these businesses was part of our strategy to simplify our operating model to focus on technology-differentiated, high-margin businesses and had a major effect on our operations and financial results.



As a result, IT Services and CapRock are reported as discontinued operations in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and these Notes. Except for disclosures related to our cash flows, or unless otherwise specified, disclosures in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and these Notes relate solely to our continuing operations.



The major components of discontinued operations in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) included a $3 million non-operating loss for the quarter ended September 28, 2018 and a $3 million non-operating loss and $3 







Note C — Stock Options and Other Share-Based Compensation 



During the quarter ended September 28, 2018, we had options or other share-based compensation outstanding under two shareholder-approved employee stock incentive plans (“SIPs”), the Harris Corporation 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (As Amended and Restated Effective August 27, 2010) and the Harris Corporation 2015 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2015 EIP”). Grants of share-based awards after October 23, 2015 were made under our 2015 EIP. We believe that share-based awards more closely align the interests of participants with those of shareholders. Certain share-based awards provide for accelerated vesting if there is a change in control (as defined under our SIPs). The compensation cost related to our share-based awards that was charged against income was $14 million and $11 million for the quarters ended September 28, 2018 and September 29, 2017, respectively. 





Note D — Restructuring and Other Exit Costs 



We record charges for restructuring and other exit activities related to sales or terminations of product lines, closures or relocations of business activities, changes in management structure, and fundamental reorganizations that affect the nature and focus of operations. Such charges include termination benefits, contract termination costs and costs to consolidate facilities or relocate employees. We record these charges at their fair value when incurred. In cases where employees are required to render service until they are terminated in order to receive the termination benefits and will be retained beyond the minimum retention period, we record the expense ratably over the future service period. These charges are included as a component of the “Cost of product sales and services” and “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line items in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited). 



In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, we recorded a $5 million charge for consolidation of certain Exelis Inc. (collectively with its subsidiaries, “Exelis”) facilities initiated in fiscal 2017. This charge is included as a component of the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Consolidated Statement of Income in our Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K. We had liabilities of $22 million and $27 million at September 28, 2018 and June 29, 2018, respectively, associated with this integration activity and with previous restructuring actions. We expect that the majority of the remaining liabilities as of September 28, 2018 will be paid within the next twelve months. 



Note E — Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss 







Accumulated other comprehensive loss at June 29, 2018 reflects a reclassification to retained earnings of $35 million in stranded tax effects as a result of our adoption of an accounting standards update, including $30 million from “Unrecognized 







Note F — Receivables 







We have a receivables sale agreement (“RSA”) with a third-party financial institution that permits us to sell, on a non-recourse basis, up to $50 million of outstanding receivables at any given time. From time to time, we have sold certain customer receivables under the RSA, which we continue to service and collect on behalf of the third-party financial institution. Receivables sold pursuant to the RSA meet the requirements for sales accounting under ASC 860, Transfers and Servicing, and, accordingly, are derecognized from our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited) at the time of sale. Outstanding accounts receivable sold pursuant to the RSA were not material at September 28, 2018 and June 29, 2018. Impairment losses related to receivables from contracts with customers were not material during the quarters ended September 28, 2018 and September 29, 2017.



Note G — Contract Assets and Contract Liabilities 



 Contract assets include unbilled amounts typically resulting from revenue recognized exceeding amounts billed to customers for contracts utilizing the POC cost-to-cost revenue recognition method. We bill customers as work progresses in accordance with agreed-upon contractual terms, either at periodic intervals, upon achievement of contractual milestones or upon deliveries and, in certain arrangements, the customer may withhold payment of a small portion of the contract price until contract completion. Contract liabilities include advance payments and billings in excess of revenue recognized, including deferred revenue associated with extended product warranties. Contract assets and liabilities are reported on a contract-by-contract basis at the end of each reporting period. Changes in contract assets and contract liabilities balances during the quarter ended September 28, 2018 were not materially impacted by any factors other than those described above.















Impairment losses related to our contract assets were not material during the quarters ended September 28, 2018 and September 29, 2017. For the quarter ended September 28, 2018, we recognized revenue of $158 million related to contract liabilities that were outstanding at June 29, 2018. For the quarter ended September 29, 2017, we recognized revenue of $110 million related to contract liabilities that were outstanding at June 30, 2017.





Note H — Inventories 







Note I — Property, Plant and Equipment 







Depreciation and amortization expense related to property, plant and equipment was $35 million and $37 million for the quarters ended September 28, 2018 and September 29, 2017, respectively. 



Note J — Accrued Warranties 







We also sell extended product warranties and recognize revenue from these arrangements over the warranty period. Costs of warranty services under these arrangements are recognized as incurred. Deferred revenue associated with extended product warranties was $16 million at September 28, 2018 and June 29, 2018, and is included as a component of the “Contract liabilities” and “Other long-term liabilities” line items in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited).





Note K — Postretirement Benefit Plans 







The service cost component of net periodic benefit income is included in the “Cost of product sales and services” and “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line items in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited). The non-service cost components of net periodic pension income are included in the "Non-operating income" line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited). 



We made a $300 million voluntary contribution to our U.S. qualified pension plans in the third quarter of fiscal 2018. As a result of this voluntary contribution as well as a $400 million voluntary contribution made during fiscal 2017, we made no contributions to our U.S. qualified benefit pension plans during the quarter ended September 28, 2018 and we currently anticipate making no contributions to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans and minor contributions to a non-U.S. pension plan during the remainder of fiscal 2019. We made no contributions to our qualified defined benefit pension plans during the quarter ended September 29, 2017.



The U.S. Salaried Retirement Plan (“U.S. SRP”), a U.S. qualified pension plan, is our largest defined benefit pension plan, with assets valued at $4.6 billion and a projected benefit obligation of $5.2 billion as of June 29, 2018. Effective December 31, 2016, accruals under the U.S. SRP benefit formula were frozen for all employees and replaced with a 1% cash balance benefit formula for certain employees who were not highly compensated on December 31, 2016.



Note L — Income From Continuing Operations Per Share 







Potential dilutive common shares primarily consist of employee stock options and restricted and performance unit awards. Income from continuing operations per diluted common share excludes the antidilutive impact of 160,167 and 162,770 weighted average share-based awards outstanding for the quarters ended September 28, 2018 and September 29, 2017, respectively. 





Note M — Income Taxes  



On December 22, 2017, H.R.1, also known as the “Tax Cuts and Jobs Act,” was signed into U.S. law (“Tax Act”). Among other provisions, the Tax Act reduced the U.S. statutory corporate income tax rate from a maximum 35 percent to a flat 21 percent, effective January 1, 2018. 



Effective Tax Rate



Our effective tax rate (income taxes as a percentage of income from continuing operations before income taxes) was 16.0 percent in the quarter ended September 28, 2018 compared with 27.6 percent in the quarter ended September 29, 2017. In the quarter ended September 28, 2018, our effective tax rate benefited from the tax rate reduction under the Tax Act, and in the quarters ended September 28, 2018 and September 29, 2017, our effective tax rate benefited from the favorable impact of excess tax benefits related to equity-based compensation, and from several differences in GAAP and tax accounting related to investments. 



Tax Law Changes



As of September 28, 2018, we have not fully completed our accounting for the income tax impact of enactment of the Tax Act. In accordance with SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No.118 (“SAB 118”), we have recognized provisional amounts for income tax effects of the Tax Act that we were able to reasonably estimate. We intend to adjust the tax effects for the relevant items during the allowed measurement period. We are still evaluating certain aspects of the Tax Act and refining our calculations, which could potentially affect our current estimated valuation of our net deferred income tax balances and could give rise to new deferred tax amounts.





We are still in the process of evaluating the U.S. federal corporate income tax impacts of the Global Intangible Low Taxed Income (“GILTI”) and Foreign Derived Intangible Income (“FDII”) provisions of the Tax Act. In accordance with SAB 118, our first quarter tax expense includes estimated calculations for these provisions as a period cost in our effective tax rate and we will continue to modify and update our evaluation as additional regulations are issued by the U.S. Department of Treasury.





We are continuing to monitor activity at the state and local level for conformity to the Tax Act. We do not expect a material impact to our state and local tax expense. 



Note N — Fair Value Measurements 





•Level 1 — Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.



•Level 2 — Observable inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1, including quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active; and inputs other than quoted prices that are observable or are derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data by correlation or other means.



•Level 3 — Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity, are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities, and reflect our own assumptions about the assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability developed using the best information available in the circumstances.



In certain instances, fair value is estimated using quoted market prices obtained from external pricing services. In obtaining such data from the external pricing services, we have evaluated the methodologies used to develop the estimate of fair value in order to assess whether such valuations are representative of fair value, including net asset value (“NAV”). 





Additionally, in certain circumstances, the NAV reported by an asset manager may be adjusted when sufficient evidence indicates NAV is not representative of fair value.





















Note O — Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities 



In the normal course of business, we are exposed to global market risks, including the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We use derivative instruments to manage our exposure to such risks and formally document all relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as the risk-management objective and strategy for undertaking hedge transactions. We recognize all derivatives in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited) at fair value. We do not hold or issue derivatives for speculative purposes.



At September 28, 2018, we had open foreign currency forward contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $10 million, of which $4 million were classified as fair value hedges and $6 million were classified as cash flow hedges. This compares with open foreign currency forward contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $39 million at June 29, 2018, of which $4 million were classified as fair value hedges and $35 million were classified as cash flow hedges. At September 28, 2018, contract expiration dates ranged from 17 days to approximately 3 months with a weighted average contract life of 2 months. 





Fair Value Hedges



We use foreign currency forward contracts and options to hedge certain balance sheet items, including foreign currency denominated accounts receivable and inventory. As of September 28, 2018, we had an outstanding foreign currency forward contract denominated in the Canadian Dollar to hedge certain balance sheet items. The net gains or losses on foreign currency forward contracts designated as fair value hedges were not material in the quarter ended September 28, 2018 or in the quarter ended September 29, 2017. In addition, no amounts were recognized in earnings in the quarter ended September 28, 2018 or in the quarter ended September 29, 2017 related to hedged firm commitments that no longer qualify as fair value hedges. 



Cash Flow Hedges



We use foreign currency forward contracts and options to hedge off-balance sheet future foreign currency commitments and also have hedged U.S. Dollar payments to suppliers to maintain our anticipated profit margins in our international operations. As of September 28, 2018, we had outstanding foreign currency forward contracts denominated in the British Pound, Euro and Australian Dollar to hedge certain forecasted transactions. The net gains or losses from cash flow hedges recognized in earnings or recorded in other comprehensive income, including gains or losses related to hedge ineffectiveness, were not material in the quarter ended September 28, 2018 or in the quarter ended September 29, 2017. 



Note P — Business Segment Information 





•Communication Systems, serving markets in tactical communications and defense products, including tactical ground and airborne radio communications solutions and night vision technology, and in public safety networks; 



•Electronic Systems, providing electronic warfare, avionics, and command, control, communications, computers, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (“C4ISR”) solutions for defense and classified customers and mission-critical communication systems for civil and military aviation and other customers; and 



•Space and Intelligence Systems, providing intelligence, space protection, geospatial, complete Earth observation, universe exploration, positioning, navigation and timing (“PNT”), and environmental solutions for national security, defense, civil and commercial customers, using advanced sensors, antennas and payloads, as well as ground processing and information analytics. 





We evaluate each segment’s performance based on segment operating income or loss, which we define as profit or loss from operations before income taxes, including pension income and excluding interest income and expense, royalties and related intellectual property expenses, equity method investment income or loss and gains or losses from securities and other investments. Intersegment sales are generally transferred at cost to the buying segment, and the sourcing segment recognizes a profit that is eliminated. The “Corporate eliminations” line item in the table below represents the elimination of intersegment sales. The “Unallocated corporate expense and corporate eliminations” line item in the table below represents the portion of corporate expenses not allocated to our business segments and elimination of intersegment profits. The “Pension adjustment” line item in the table below represents the reconciliation of the non-service components of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit costs, which are a component of segment operating income but are included in the "Non-operating income" line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) as a result of our adoption of ASU 2017-17 as discussed in Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards in these Notes. The non-service components of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit costs include interest cost, expected return on plan assets and amortization of net actuarial gain. 











Disaggregation of Revenue

































Note Q — Legal Proceedings and Contingencies 





Environmental Matters 







Note R — Subsequent Events 



Subsequent to the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2019, on October 14, 2018, we announced that on October 12, 2018, Harris entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”), with L3 Technologies, Inc. (“L3”) and Leopard Merger Sub Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Harris (“Merger Sub”), pursuant to which Harris and L3 have agreed to combine in an all-stock merger of equals. Under the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement, L3 shareholders will receive a fixed exchange ratio of 1.30 shares of Harris common stock for each share of L3 common stock, consistent with the 60-trading day average exchange ratio of the two companies. Upon closing of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, Harris will be re-named “L3 Harris Technologies, Inc.” and Merger Sub will merge with and into L3, with L3 being the surviving corporation and becoming a wholly-owned subsidiary of L3 Harris Technologies, Inc., which will be owned on a fully diluted basis approximately 54 percent by Harris shareholders and 46 percent by L3 shareholders. The Merger Agreement has been unanimously approved by the Board of Directors of each company. The transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement are subject to satisfaction of customary closing conditions, including receipt of regulatory approvals and approval by the shareholders of each company, and we currently expect the closing to occur in mid-calendar year 2019, although we can give no assurances regarding the timing or occurrence of closing. 



L3 is a leading provider of technical solutions for military, homeland security and commercial platforms headquartered in New York, New York that employs approximately 31,000 and generated calendar 2018 revenue of approximately $10 billion. L3 is a prime contractor in intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (“ISR”) systems, aircraft sustainment (including modifications and fleet management of special mission aircraft), simulation and training, night vision and image intensification equipment and security and detection systems. L3 is also a leading provider of a broad range of communication, electronic and sensor systems used on military, homeland security and commercial platforms.



The foregoing description of the Merger Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby is not complete and is subject to, and qualified in its entirety by reference to, the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of October 12, 2018, by and among L3, us, and Merger Sub, a copy of which was filed as an exhibit to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 16, 2018.





REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 



To the Shareholders and Board of Directors of Harris Corporation



Results of Review of Interim Financial Statements 



We have reviewed the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet of Harris Corporation (the Company) as of September 28, 2018, the related condensed consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, cash flows and equity for the quarter ended September 28, 2018 and September 29, 2017, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the “condensed consolidated interim financial statements”). Based on our reviews, we are not aware of any material modifications that should be made to the condensed consolidated interim financial statements for them to be in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. 



We have previously audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the consolidated balance sheet of the Company as of June 29, 2018, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, cash flows and equity for the year then ended, and the related notes and financial statement schedule (not presented herein) and in our report dated August 27, 2018, we expressed an unqualified audit opinion on those consolidated financial statements. As described in Note A to the Company’s condensed consolidated interim financial statements, effective June 30, 2018, the Company adopted Accounting Standards Codification Topic 606 (ASC 606) on a full retrospective basis resulting in revision of the June 29, 2018 consolidated balance sheet. We have not audited and reported on the revised balance sheet reflecting the adoption of ASC 606.



Basis for Review Results 



These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and required to be independent with respect to the company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the SEC and the PCAOB. We conducted our review in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. A review of interim financial statements consists principally of applying analytical procedures and making inquiries of persons responsible for financial and accounting matters. It is substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB, the objective of which is the expression of an opinion regarding the financial statements taken as a whole. Accordingly, we do not express such an opinion.





Orlando, Florida







Item 1. Legal Proceedings.





Tax Audits. Our tax filings are subject to audit by taxing authorities in jurisdictions where we conduct or conducted business. These audits may result in assessments of additional taxes that are subsequently resolved with the authorities or ultimately through legal proceedings. We believe we have adequately accrued for any ultimate amounts that are likely to result from these audits; however, final assessments, if any, could be different from the amounts recorded in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).



Item 1A. Risk Factors.



Investors should carefully review and consider the information regarding certain factors that could materially affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows as set forth under Item 1A. “Risk Factors” in our Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K. Except as set forth below in this Item 1A. “Risk Factors,” we do not believe that there have been any material changes to the risk factors previously disclosed in our Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K. We may disclose changes to such risk factors or disclose additional risk factors from time to time in our future filings with the SEC. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe not to be material also may adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.





•The closing of the merger is subject to closing conditions, including regulatory approvals and approval by the shareholders of each company. If the closing conditions are not satisfied or waived, either timely or at all, the merger will be delayed or will not be completed, which could cause us not to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits of the merger.



•The market price of our common stock may reflect an assumption that the pending merger will occur and on a timely basis, and the failure to do so may result in a decline in the market price of our common stock.



•Combining the two companies may prove to be more difficult, costly and time consuming than expected, which could cause us not to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits and cost savings from the merger.



•In connection with the merger, the combined company will have significant outstanding indebtedness, including each company’s currently outstanding indebtedness, which could adversely affect us, including by potentially lowering our credit ratings or decreasing our business flexibility, particularly if we are not able to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits and cost savings from the merger.



•The merger will involve substantial non-recurring costs, including transaction costs, regulatory costs and integration costs, such as facilities, systems and employment-related costs, and we may incur additional unanticipated costs that may be significant. Although we expect the elimination of duplicative costs and other cost synergies from operational and functional efficiencies following integration of the two companies to exceed integration costs over time, we may not be able to achieve this result as quickly as anticipated or at all, particularly if we are not able to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits and cost savings from the merger.



•The merger may not be as accretive to our earnings or cash flows as we expect, either as quickly or at all, and actually may be dilutive to our earnings or cash flows, particularly if we are not able to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits and cost savings from the merger.





•Sales of our common stock by our shareholders, including shareholders of L3 who receive shares of our common stock as a result of the merger, may result in a decline in the market price of our common stock.



•Lawsuits may be filed challenging the merger, and an adverse ruling in such lawsuits may cause the merger to be delayed or not to be completed, which could cause us not to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits of the merger.



•Uncertainties associated with the merger may adversely affect our ability and L3’s ability to attract and retain management and other key employees during the pendency of the merger and the integration period, which could adversely affect our business and operations and L3’s business and operations, which could cause us not to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits of the merger.



