Item 4. Controls and Procedures.









migrating certain processes to our shared services organizations, formalizing policies and procedures, improving segregation of duties and increasing monitoring controls. In addition, when we acquire new businesses, we incorporate our controls and procedures into the acquired business as part of our integration activities. We are continuing our implementation of a new income tax provision software designed to enhance process stability and further facilitate the computation and recording of tax provisions for our U.S. and international entities. We are also continuing the multi-year, phased implementation of a new core enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system in certain business units, which we expect to reduce the number of ERP systems across the Company and enhance our system of internal control over financial reporting. We expect the initial implementation of the new core ERP system in each affected business unit to involve changes to related processes that are part of our system of internal control over financial reporting and to require testing for effectiveness and potential further changes as implementation progresses. During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we successfully completed the initial implementation of the new core ERP system in 2 business units and during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we completed the implementation of the new core ERP system in 2 additional business units. Other than the system and related process changes described above, there have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.





Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures.





Not Applicable.



Item 5. Other Information.



Not Applicable.



Item 6. Exhibits.



EXHIBIT INDEX









SIGNATURE



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.





