item1.txt
Stock-based compensation expense in the three months ended June 30, 2019, was approximately $5.5 million, comprising approximately $4.2 million related to restricted stock unit (RSU) awards, $0.9 million related to performance-based (PSU) awards and long-term performance-based (PRSU) awards and $0.4 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan.
Under the performance-based awards program, the Company grants awards in the performance year in an amount equal to twice the target number of shares to be issued if the maximum performance metrics are met.
The actual number of shares the recipient receives is determined at the end of a three-year performance period based on results achieved versus the Company's performance goals, and may range from zero to 200% of the target number.
The Company's top ten customers accounted for approximately 56% and 54% of net revenues for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, and approximately 59% and 58%, respectively, of net revenues in the corresponding periods of the previous year.
In each of three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, one customer, a distributor of the Company's products, accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s net revenues.
On October 20, 2004, the Company filed a complaint against Fairchild Semiconductor International, Inc. and Fairchild Semiconductor Corporation (referred to collectively as “Fairchild”) in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware.
In its complaint, the Company alleged that Fairchild has and is infringing four of Power Integrations’ patents pertaining to pulse width modulation (PWM) integrated circuit devices.
Fairchild denied infringement and asked for a declaration from the court that it does not infringe any Power Integrations patent and that the patents are invalid.
The Court issued a claim construction order on March 31, 2006, which was favorable to the Company.
At the close of the first trial, on October 10, 2006, the jury returned a verdict in favor of the Company finding all asserted claims of all four patents-in-suit to be willfully infringed by Fairchild and awarding $34.0 million in damages.
Fairchild submitted further materials on the issue of enforceability along with various other post-trial motions, and the Company filed post-trial motions seeking a permanent injunction and increased damages and attorneys’ fees, among other things.
On December 12, 2008, the Court ruled on the remaining post-trial motions, including granting a permanent injunction, reducing the damages award to $6.1 million, granting Fairchild a new trial on the issue of willful infringement in view of an intervening change in the law, and denying the Company’s motion for increased damages and attorneys’ fees with leave to renew the motion after the resolution of the issue of willful infringement.
On January 12, 2009, Fairchild filed a notice of appeal challenging the Court’s refusal to enter a more permanent stay of the injunction, and Fairchild filed additional motions requesting that both the Federal Circuit and the District Court extend the stay of injunction.
The District Court temporarily extended the stay pending the Federal Circuit ruling on Fairchild’s pending motion, but the Federal Circuit dismissed Fairchild’s appeal and denied its motion on May 5, 2009, and the District Court issued an order on May 13, 2009 confirming the reinstatement of the permanent injunction as originally entered in December 2008.
On July 22, 2010, the Court found that Fairchild willfully infringed all four of the asserted patents, and the Court also invited briefing on enhanced damages and attorneys’ fees.
On January 18, 2011, the Court denied Fairchild’s request to amend the findings regarding Fairchild’s willful infringement and doubled the damages award against Fairchild but declined to award attorneys’ fees.
On February 3, 2011, the Court entered final judgment in favor of the Company for a total damages award of $12.9 million.
Fairchild filed a notice of appeal challenging the final judgment and a number of the underlying rulings, and the Company filed a cross-appeal seeking to increase the damages award.
The appeal was argued on January 11, 2012, and the Federal Circuit issued a mixed ruling on March 26, 2013, affirming Fairchild’s infringement of certain claims that support the basis for the permanent injunction while reversing, vacating, and remanding the findings with respect to other claims, including the Company’s claim for damages.
The Company filed a petition seeking Supreme Court review of the Federal Circuit’s ruling on damages issues, and the Supreme Court called for a response from Fairchild but ultimately declined to review the case.
On remand, the District Court reinstated the prior findings that Fairchild willfully infringed three of the Company’s patents; the Company intends to pursue its claim for financial compensation based on Fairchild’s infringement.
Moreover, following a new Supreme Court case on patent damages, the District Court on October 4, 2018 determined that the Federal Circuit’s ruling on damages in the earlier appeal had been overruled; that issue is now on appeal at the Federal Circuit, with briefing completed on the impact of the Supreme Court’s ruling and the scope of the proceedings on remand and oral argument expected in the coming months.
On May 23, 2008, the Company filed a complaint against Fairchild Semiconductor International, Inc., Fairchild Semiconductor Corporation, and Fairchild’s wholly owned subsidiary System General Corporation (referred to collectively as “Fairchild”), in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware.
In its complaint, the Company alleged that Fairchild has infringed and is infringing three patents pertaining to power supply controller integrated circuit devices.
Fairchild answered the Company’s complaint on November 7, 2008, denying infringement and asking for a declaration from the Court that it does not infringe any Power Integrations patent and that the patents are invalid and unenforceable.
Fairchild’s answer also included counterclaims accusing the Company of infringing three patents pertaining to primary side power conversion integrated circuit devices.
The Company has answered Fairchild’s counterclaims, denying infringement and asking for a declaration from the Court that it does not infringe any Fairchild patent and that the Fairchild patents are invalid.
On March 5, 2009, Fairchild filed a motion for summary judgment to preclude any recovery for post-verdict sales of parts found to infringe in the parties’ other ongoing litigation, described above, and the Company filed its opposition and a cross-motion to preclude Fairchild from re-litigating the issues of infringement and damages for those same products.
On June 26, 2009, the Court held a hearing on the parties’ motions, and on July 9, 2009 the Court issued an order denying the parties’ motions but staying proceedings with respect to the products that were found to infringe and which are subject to the injunction in the other Delaware case between the parties pending the entry of final judgment in that case; those products are expected to be addressed in the context of the parties’ remand proceedings following the appeal in their earlier litigation in Delaware, and the remainder of the case is proceeding.
On December 18, 2009, the Court issued an order construing certain terms in the asserted claims of the Company’s and Fairchild’s patents in suit.
The parties thereafter filed and argued a number of motions for summary judgment, and the Court denied the majority of the parties’ motions but granted the Company’s motion to preclude Fairchild from re-arguing validity positions that were rejected in the prior case between the parties.
On April 18, 2011, the Court rescheduled the trial to begin in January 2012, and on June 2, 2011, the Court moved the trial date to April 2012 to permit the parties to address another patent the Company accused Fairchild of infringing.
Following a trial in April 2012, the jury returned a verdict finding that Fairchild infringes two of the Company’s patents, that Fairchild has induced others to infringe the Company’s patents, and also upheld the validity of the infringed patents.
Of the two remaining counterclaim patents Fairchild asserted in the case, one was found not to be infringed, but the jury found the second patent to be infringed by a limited number of the Company’s products, although the jury further found the Company did not induce infringement by any customers, including customers outside the United States.
On March 29, 2013, the District Court denied most of the parties’ post-trial motions on liability but granted the Company’s motion for judgment as a matter of law finding that Fairchild infringed another of the Company’s patents.
The Company challenged adverse findings on appeal; nevertheless, the Company estimated that even if the verdict on Fairchild’s patent had ultimately been upheld, the sales potentially impacted would have amounted to less than 0.5% of the Company’s revenues.
The Company requested an injunction preventing further infringement of its own patents by Fairchild, and Fairchild requested an injunction as well.
Following a hearing on the issue in June 2014, the Court denied Fairchild’s request for an injunction against the Company and granted the Company’s request for an injunction against Fairchild.
After briefing was completed, oral argument on the appeal took place in early July 2016, and on December 12, 2016, the Federal Circuit issued its opinion in the appeal, overturning the lone infringement verdict against the Company, finding one of the Company’s patents invalid, and overturning the District Court’s jury instruction on inducement.
In view of the Federal Circuit’s rejection of the District Court’s jury instruction on inducement, the Court also vacated the inducement findings and associated injunction against Fairchild and remanded the case for a retrial on inducement, but the underlying validity and infringement findings against Fairchild on those two patents remain intact.
At the conclusion of the retrial, the jury returned a verdict in favor of the Company, finding that Fairchild willfully infringed the Company’s patents and induced infringement of the patents, awarding $24.3 million in damages on November 9, 2018.
Although the jury awarded damages, at this stage of the proceedings the Company cannot state the amount, if any, it might ultimately recover from Fairchild, and no benefits have been recorded in the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements as a result of the damages verdict.
Fairchild challenged the verdict, and the Company sought enhanced damages for Fairchild’s willful infringement in post-trial proceedings, but on July 2019, the Court denied both parties’ motions.
On June 28, 2004, the Company filed a complaint for patent infringement in the U.S. District Court, Northern District of California, against System General Corporation (SG), a Taiwanese company, and its U.S. subsidiary.
The Company’s complaint alleged that certain integrated circuits produced by SG infringed and continue to infringe certain of its patents.
On October 21, 2015, the Company filed a complaint for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California against Fairchild Semiconductor Corporation, Fairchild Semiconductor International, Inc., and wholly-owned subsidiary Fairchild (Taiwan) Corporation (referred to collectively as “Fairchild”) to address Fairchild’s continued infringement of two patents Fairchild was previously found to infringe in the three District Court cases the Company brought against Fairchild discussed above.
Fairchild has answered the Company’s complaint, denying infringement and asking for a declaration from the Court that it does not infringe any Power Integrations patent and that the patents are invalid.
Fairchild’s answer also included counterclaims accusing the Company of infringing four patents pertaining to power conversion integrated circuit devices, including one patent the Company was found not to infringe in prior litigation.
The Company has answered Fairchild’s counterclaims, denying infringement and asking for a declaration from the Court that it does not infringe any Fairchild patent and that the Fairchild patents are invalid.
Following additional briefing regarding the Company’s proposal to move forward with some of the Company’s claims, the Court lifted the stay as to one of each side’s patents and set a trial for November 2020, with fact and expert discovery taking place in the interim.
On April 1, 2016, Opticurrent, LLC filed a complaint against the Company in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas.
In its complaint, Opticurrent alleges that the Company has infringed and is infringing one patent pertaining to transistor switch devices.
The Company filed a motion to transfer the case to California, which the Court granted, and the case was assigned to a new judge in San Francisco following the transfer.
On December 21, 2018, the Court granted the Company’s challenge to Opticurrent’s damages expert but denied the Company’s motion for summary judgment.
Following a trial in February 2019, a jury issued a finding of direct infringement by the Company but found that the Company did not induce infringement, and awarded Opticurrent damages of $6.7 million.
The Company challenged those findings in post-trial proceedings, and the Court granted one of the Company’s post-trial motions, reducing the damages award to $1.2 million.
On August 11, 2016, ON Semiconductor filed a complaint against the Company in the United States District Court for the District of Arizona.
In its complaint, ON Semiconductor alleged that the Company has infringed and is infringing six patents and requested injunctive relief.
The Company filed a motion to transfer the case to the Northern District of California, which the Court granted, and the case has been consolidated with the Company’s affirmative case against ON Semiconductor in the Northern District of California, as discussed below.
On November 1, 2016, the Company filed a lawsuit against ON Semiconductor in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California to address ON Semiconductor’s infringement of six patents.
In consolidating the pleadings from the California and Arizona cases following the transfer of ON Semiconductor’s case from Arizona, ON Semiconductor asserted two additional patents, bringing the total number of patents asserted against the Company to eight in this case, and ON Semiconductor’s amended complaint also seeks a declaration of non-infringement with respect to another of the Company’s patents that was previously asserted against Fairchild Semiconductor.
On December 27, 2016, ON Semiconductor filed a complaint against the Company in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas.
In its complaint, ON Semiconductor alleged that the Company has infringed and is infringing six patents and requests injunctive relief.
After the Company filed a motion to dismiss, ON Semiconductor filed an amended complaint; the Company has answered ON Semiconductor’s complaint and asserted claims for infringement of several of the Company’s patents.
In November 2017, ON Semiconductor filed suit against the Company in Taiwan charging the Company with infringing three Taiwanese patents and seeking an injunction and damages of approximately $1.0 million.
After a number of hearings and briefings on various disputed issues, including issues of jurisdiction, claim construction, validity, and infringement, the Court on April 8, 2019 denied ON Semiconductor’s claims and dismissed the case; ON Semiconductor has filed an appeal, and further proceedings will take place over the coming months.


item2.txt
These include the introduction of products that enable us to address higher-power AC-DC applications (such as our Hiper™ product families), the introduction of LED-driver products, and our entry into the gate-driver market through the acquisition of CT-Concept Technologie AG in 2012.
Our net revenues were $102.9 million and $109.5 million in the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $192.1 million and $212.6 million in the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The decrease for the three-month period was a result of lower sales into the consumer and industrial end markets, reflecting reduced demand for consumer-appliances and a broad range of industrial applications.
These decreases were partially offset by growth in the communications and computer end markets, driven by increased demand for our products in cellphone and tablet chargers, respectively.
The decrease in the six-month period reflects a broad-based decline in demand across all end markets resulting from global trade disputes.
Our top ten customers, including distributors that resell to original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, and merchant power supply manufacturers, accounted for 56% and 54% of our net revenues in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, and 59% and 58% of net revenues in each of the respective corresponding periods of 2018.
Our top customer, a distributor of our products, accounted for approximately 10% and 12% of our net revenues in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, and 14% and 15% in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively.
International sales accounted for 97% of our net revenues in each of the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and 97% and 96% of net revenues in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively.
Total operating expenses were $41.8 million and $40.6 million in the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $81.2 million and $80.2 million in the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Net revenues for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 were $102.9 million and $192.1 million, respectively, and $109.5 million and $212.6 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods of 2018.
The decrease for the three-month period was a result of lower sales into the consumer and industrial end markets, reflecting reduced demand for consumer-appliances and a broad range of industrial applications.
This decrease was partially offset by growth in the communications and computer end markets, driven by increased demand for our products in cellphone and tablet chargers, respectively.
The decrease in the six month period reflects a broad-based decline in demand across all end markets resulting from global trade disputes.
International sales, consisting of sales outside of the United States of America based on “bill to” customer locations, were $100.3 million and $186.8 million in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, and $105.8 million and $205.0 million, respectively, in the corresponding periods of 2018.
Although power converters using our products are distributed to end markets worldwide, most are manufactured in Asia.
As a result, sales to this region represented 78% and 77% of our net revenues in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, and 79% and 78%, respectively, in the corresponding periods of 2018.
Sales to distributors accounted for 73% and 75% of net revenues in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, and 76% in each of in the corresponding periods of 2018.
In each of the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, one customer, a distributor of our products, accounted for more than 10% of our net revenues.
Gross margin decreased in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, compared with the same period in the prior year, due primarily to increased wafer substrate costs along with an unfavorable change in end-market mix with a greater percentage of revenues coming from lower-margin end-markets.
The increase in other income in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 as compared to the same periods in 2018 was primarily due to an increase in interest income reflecting higher yields earned on our cash and investments.
Operating activities generated cash of $20.5 million in the six months ended June 30, 2019.
Net income for this period was $18.1 million; we also incurred non-cash stock-based compensation expense, depreciation, amortization and deferred income taxes of $9.9 million, $9.4 million, $2.5 million and $1.7 million, respectively.
Sources of cash also included a $4.2 million increase in accounts payable, excluding payables related to property and equipment, due primarily to the timing of payments, and a $1.2 million increase in taxes payable and accrued liabilities.
These sources of cash were partially offset by a $14.5 million increase in accounts receivable due to the timing of customer shipments, an $8.3 million increase in inventory reflecting a combination of the recent market slowdown and anticipation of future demand, and a $3.6 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets, primarily driven by prepaid taxes and advances to suppliers.
Operating activities generated cash of $42.4 million in the six months ended June 30, 2018.
Net income for this period was $29.6 million; we also incurred non-cash stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization of $11.7 million, $9.7 million and $2.7 million, respectively.
These sources of cash were partially offset by an $11.7 million increase in inventory, reflecting anticipated demand, a $7.3 million decrease in accounts payable, excluding payables related to property and equipment, due primarily to the timing of payments, and a $1.4 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets, primarily driven by prepaid taxes and maintenance agreements.
Our investing activities in the six months ended June 30, 2019, resulted in a $43.6 million net use of cash, primarily consisting of $35.0 million for purchases of marketable securities, net of sales and maturities, and $8.3 million for purchases of property and equipment, primarily production-related machinery and equipment.
Our investing activities provided $79.3 million of cash in the six months ended June 30, 2018, consisting of $90.4 million from sales and maturities of marketable securities, partially offset by $10.5 million for purchases of property and equipment, primarily production-related machinery and equipment.
Our financing activities in the six months ended June 30, 2019, resulted in an $11.5 million net use of cash, consisting of $9.9 million for the payment of dividends to stockholders and $7.3 million for the repurchase of our common stock.
Our financing activities in the six months ended June 30, 2018, resulted in a $67.2 million net use of cash, consisting of $63.4 million for the repurchase of our common stock and $9.5 million for the payment of dividends to stockholders.


item3.txt
There has not been a material change in our exposure to foreign currency exchange and interest rate risks from that described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
Foreign Currency Exchange Risk.
As of June 30, 2019, our primary transactional currency was U.S. dollars; in addition, we hold cash in Swiss francs and euro.
The foreign exchange rate fluctuation between the U.S. dollar versus the Swiss franc and euro is recorded in other income in our condensed consolidated statements of income.
As of June 30, 2019, and December 31, 2018, we did not have an open foreign currency hedge program utilizing foreign currency forward exchange contracts.
Each year, our management and these two suppliers review and negotiate future pricing; the negotiated pricing is denominated in U.S. dollars but is subject to contractual exchange rate provisions.


part2.txt
Information with respect to this item may be found in Note 13, Legal Proceedings and Contingencies, in our Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which information is incorporated herein by reference.


