item1.txt
Under the performance-based awards program, the Company grants awards in the performance year in an amount equal to twice the target number of shares to be issued if the maximum performance metrics are met.
In the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, the effective tax rates for these periods were lower than the then statutory federal income-tax rates of 21% and 35%, respectively, due to the geographic distribution of the Company’s world-wide earnings in lower tax jurisdictions, federal research tax credits, as well as the recognition of excess tax benefits related to share-based payments.
On October 20, 2004, the Company filed a complaint against Fairchild Semiconductor International, Inc. and Fairchild Semiconductor Corporation (referred to collectively as “Fairchild”) in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware.
In its complaint, the Company alleged that Fairchild has and is infringing four of Power Integrations’ patents pertaining to pulse width modulation (PWM) integrated circuit devices.
Fairchild denied infringement and asked for a declaration from the court that it does not infringe any Power Integrations patent and that the patents are invalid.
The Court issued a claim construction order on March 31, 2006 which was favorable to the Company.
At the close of the first trial, on October 10, 2006, the jury returned a verdict in favor of the Company finding all asserted claims of all four patents-in-suit to be willfully infringed by Fairchild and awarding $34.0 million in damages.
Fairchild raised defenses contending that the asserted patents are invalid or unenforceable, and the Court held a second trial on these issues beginning on September 17, 2007.
On September 21, 2007, the jury returned a verdict in the Company’s favor, affirming the validity of the asserted claims of all four patents-in-suit.
Fairchild submitted further materials on the issue of enforceability along with various other post-trial motions, and the Company filed post-trial motions seeking a permanent injunction and increased damages and attorneys’ fees, among other things.
On December 12, 2008, the Court ruled on the remaining post-trial motions, including granting a permanent injunction, reducing the damages award to $6.1 million, granting Fairchild a new trial on the issue of willful infringement in view of an intervening change in the law, and denying the Company’s motion for increased damages and attorneys’ fees with leave to renew the motion after the resolution of the issue of willful infringement.
On January 12, 2009, Fairchild filed a notice of appeal challenging the Court’s refusal to enter a more permanent stay of the injunction, and Fairchild filed additional motions requesting that both the Federal Circuit and the District Court extend the stay of injunction.
The District Court temporarily extended the stay pending the Federal Circuit ruling on Fairchild’s pending motion, but the Federal Circuit dismissed Fairchild’s appeal and denied its motion on May 5, 2009, and the District Court issued an order on May 13, 2009 confirming the reinstatement of the permanent injunction as originally entered in December 2008.
On July 22, 2010, the Court found that Fairchild willfully infringed all four of the asserted patents, and the Court also invited briefing on enhanced damages and attorneys’ fees.
Fairchild filed a notice of appeal challenging the final judgment and a number of the underlying rulings, and the Company filed a cross-appeal seeking to increase the damages award.
The appeal was argued on January 11, 2012, and the Federal Circuit issued a mixed ruling on March 26, 2013, affirming Fairchild’s infringement of certain claims that support the basis for the permanent injunction while reversing, vacating, and remanding the findings with respect to other claims, including the Company’s claim for damages.
The Company filed a petition seeking Supreme Court review of the Federal Circuit’s ruling on damages issues, and the Supreme Court called for a response from Fairchild but ultimately declined to review the case.
On remand, the District Court reinstated the prior findings that Fairchild willfully infringed three of the Company’s patents; the Company intends to pursue its claim for financial compensation based on Fairchild’s infringement.
Moreover, following a new Supreme Court case on patent damages, the District Court on October 4, 2018 determined that the Federal Circuit’s ruling on damages in the earlier appeal had been overruled; further briefing on the scope of the proceedings on remand is expected in the coming months.
On May 23, 2008, the Company filed a complaint against Fairchild Semiconductor International, Inc., Fairchild Semiconductor Corporation, and Fairchild’s wholly owned subsidiary System General Corporation (referred to collectively as “Fairchild”), in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware.
In its complaint, the Company alleged that Fairchild has infringed and is infringing three patents pertaining to power supply controller integrated circuit devices.
Fairchild answered the Company’s complaint on November 7, 2008, denying infringement and asking for a declaration from the Court that it does not infringe any Power Integrations patent and that the patents are invalid and unenforceable.
Fairchild’s answer also included counterclaims accusing the Company of infringing three patents pertaining to primary side power conversion integrated circuit devices.
The Company has answered Fairchild’s counterclaims, denying infringement and asking for a declaration from the Court that it does not infringe any Fairchild patent and that the Fairchild patents are invalid.
Fairchild also filed a motion to stay the case, but the Court denied that motion on December 
On March 5, 2009, Fairchild filed a motion for summary judgment to preclude any recovery for post-verdict sales of parts found to infringe in the parties’ other ongoing litigation, described above, and the Company filed its opposition and a cross-motion to preclude Fairchild from re-litigating the issues of infringement and damages for those same products.
On June 26, 2009, the Court held a hearing on the parties’ motions, and on July 9, 2009 the Court issued an order denying the parties’ motions but staying proceedings with respect to the products that were found to infringe and which are subject to the injunction in the other Delaware case between the parties pending the entry of final judgment in that case; those products are expected to be addressed in the context of the parties’ remand proceedings following the appeal in their earlier litigation in Delaware, and the remainder of the case is proceeding.
On December 18, 2009, the Court issued an order construing certain terms in the asserted claims of the Company’s and Fairchild’s patents in suit.
The parties thereafter filed and argued a number of motions for summary judgment, and the Court denied the majority of the parties’ motions but granted the Company’s motion to preclude Fairchild from re-arguing validity positions that were rejected in the prior case between the parties.
On April 18, 2011, the Court rescheduled the trial to begin in January 2012, and on June 2, 2011, the Court moved the trial date to April 2012 to permit the parties to address another patent the Company accused Fairchild of infringing.
Following a trial in April 2012, the jury returned a verdict finding that Fairchild infringes two of the Company’s patents, that Fairchild has induced others to infringe the Company’s patents, and also upheld the validity of the infringed patents.
Of the two remaining counterclaim patents Fairchild asserted in the case, one was found not to be infringed, but the jury found the second patent to be infringed by a limited number of the Company’s products, although the jury further found the Company did not induce infringement by any customers, including customers outside the United States.
On March 29, 2013, the District Court denied most of the parties’ post-trial motions on liability but granted the Company’s motion for judgment as a matter of law finding that Fairchild infringed another of the Company’s patents.
The Company challenged adverse findings on appeal; nevertheless, the Company estimated that even if the verdict on Fairchild’s patent had ultimately been upheld, the sales potentially impacted would have amounted to less than 0.5% of the Company’s revenues.
The Company requested an injunction preventing further infringement of its own patents by Fairchild, and Fairchild requested an injunction as well.
Following a hearing on the issue in June 2014, the Court denied Fairchild’s request for an injunction against the Company and granted the Company’s request for an injunction against Fairchild.
After briefing was completed, oral argument on the appeal took place in early July 2016, and on December 12, 2016, the Federal Circuit issued its opinion in the appeal, overturning the lone infringement verdict against the Company, finding one of the Company’s patents invalid, and overturning the District Court’s jury instruction on inducement.
In view of the Federal Circuit’s rejection of the District Court’s jury instruction on inducement, the Court also vacated the inducement findings and associated injunction against Fairchild and remanded the case for a retrial on inducement, but the underlying validity and infringement findings against Fairchild on those two patents remain intact.
On remand, the Company will also be seeking financial damages as well as enhanced damages for Fairchild’s willful infringement.
On June 28, 2004, the Company filed a complaint for patent infringement in the U.S. District Court, Northern District of California, against System General Corporation (SG), a Taiwanese company, and its U.S. subsidiary.
The Company’s complaint alleged that certain integrated circuits produced by SG infringed and continue to infringe certain of its patents.
On November 4, 2009, the Company re-filed its complaint for patent infringement against SG and its parent corporations, Fairchild Semiconductor International, Inc. and Fairchild Semiconductor Corporation, to address their continued infringement of patents at issue in the original suit that recently emerged from SG requested reexamination proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO).
The Company seeks, among other things, an order enjoining SG and Fairchild from infringing the Company’s patents and an award of damages resulting from the alleged infringement.
Fairchild has denied infringement and asked for a declaration from the Court that it does not infringe any Power Integrations patent, that the patents are invalid, and that one of the two of the Company’s patents now at issue in the case is unenforceable.
On May 5, 2010, SG and Fairchild filed an amended answer including counterclaims accusing the Company of infringing two patents, and later Fairchild withdrew its claim for infringement of one of the patents it originally asserted against the Company but added another patent to the case over the Company’s objections.
Both parties filed summary judgment motions and challenges to each other’s experts’ testimony, and the Court granted the Company’s motion for summary judgment of non-infringement with respect to one of Fairchild’s two patents.
On July 11, 2011, the Company filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court, District of Columbia, against David Kappos in his capacity as Director of the United States Patent and Trademark Office (PTO) as part of the ongoing reexamination proceedings related to one of the patents asserted against Fairchild and SG in the Delaware litigation described above.
On remand, the PTO ignored the Federal Circuit’s guidance, so the Company filed another appeal to the Federal Circuit; in that second appeal, the Federal Circuit overturned the PTO’s rulings and confirmed the validity of the challenged claims of the Company’s patent on March 19, 2018.
On October 21, 2015, the Company filed a complaint for patent infringement against in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California Fairchild Semiconductor Corporation, Fairchild Semiconductor International, Inc., and wholly-owned subsidiary Fairchild (Taiwan) Corporation (referred to collectively as “Fairchild”) to address Fairchild’s continued infringement of two patents Fairchild was previously found to infringe in the three District Court cases the Company brought against Fairchild discussed above.
On April 1, 2016, Opticurrent, LLC filed a complaint against the Company in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas.
The Company filed a motion to transfer the case to California, which the Court granted, and the case was assigned to a new judge in San Francisco following the transfer.
On August 11, 2016, ON Semiconductor filed a complaint against the Company in the United States District Court for the District of Arizona.
In its complaint, ON Semiconductor alleged that the Company has infringed and is infringing six patents and requested injunctive relief.
The Company filed a motion to transfer the case to the Northern District of California, which the Court granted, and the case has been consolidated with the Company’s affirmative case against ON Semiconductor in the Northern District of California, as discussed below.
On November 1, 2016, the Company filed a lawsuit against ON Semiconductor in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California to address ON Semiconductor’s infringement of six patents.
In consolidating the pleadings from the California and Arizona cases following the transfer of ON Semiconductor’s case from Arizona, ON Semiconductor asserted two additional patents, bringing the total number of patents asserted against the Company to eight in this case, and ON Semiconductor’s amended complaint also seeks a declaration of non-infringement with respect to another of the Company’s patents that was previously asserted against Fairchild Semiconductor.
On December 27, 2016, ON Semiconductor filed a complaint against the Company in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas.
In its complaint, ON Semiconductor alleged that the Company has infringed and is infringing six patents and requests injunctive relief.
After the Company filed a motion to dismiss, ON Semiconductor filed an amended complaint; the Company has answered ON Semiconductor’s complaint and asserted claims for infringement of several of the Company’s patents.


item2.txt
Our net revenues were $110.1 million and $111.3 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $322.6 million and $323.5 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The slight decrease for the three- and nine-month periods was the result of lower sales into the communications and consumer end-markets, reflecting reduced demand for cellphone-charger, residential-networking and appliance applications.
Our top ten customers, including distributors that resell to OEMs and merchant power supply manufacturers, accounted for approximately 56% and 57% of our net revenues in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, and approximately 56% and 55% of net revenues in each of the respective corresponding periods of 2017.
Our top customer, a distributor of our products, accounted for approximately 14% of our net revenues in each of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, and approximately 15% and 16% in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, respectively.
International sales accounted for approximately 96% of our net revenues in each of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, and 2017.
The increases in gross margin as compared with the same periods in the prior year were due primarily to a favorable change in end-market mix, with a greater percentage of revenues coming from higher-margin end-markets; cost-reduction efforts also contributed to the increases.
Total operating expenses were $39.0 million and $39.7 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Operating expenses decreased in the three months ended September 30, 2018, as compared to the same period in the prior year, due primarily to lower stock-based compensation expense; the decrease reflects a reduction of expense related to performance-based awards in light of our 2018 performance and expectations for the remainder of the year.
In the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, total operating expenses were $119.2 million and $116.5 million, respectively.
Operating expenses increased in the nine months ended September 30, 2018, as compared with the same period in the prior year, due primarily to the expansion of our workforce, resulting in higher salary and related expenses, and higher product-development expenses.
Net revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 were $110.1 million and $322.6 million, respectively, and $111.3 million and $323.5 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods of 2017.
The slight decrease in revenues for the three- and nine-month periods was the result of lower sales into the communications and consumer end-markets, reflecting reduced demand for cellphone-charger, residential-networking and appliance applications.
International sales, consisting of sales outside of the United States based on “bill to” customer locations, were $105.6 million and $310.6 million in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, and $106.5 million and $310.4 million in the corresponding periods of 2017, respectively.
As a result, sales to this region represented 77% of our net revenues in each of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, and 78% and 79% of our net revenues in the corresponding periods of 2017, respectively.
In the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, one customer, a distributor of our products, accounted for more than 10% of our net revenues.
The increases in gross margin for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared with the same periods in the prior year, was due primarily to a favorable change in end-market mix, with a greater percentage of revenues coming from higher-margin end-markets; cost-reduction efforts also contributed to the increases.
The increases in other income in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, as compared to the same periods in 2017, were due primarily to increases in interest income reflecting higher yields earned on our cash and investments.
As of September 30, 2018, we had $248.3 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities, a decrease of approximately $34.6 million from $282.9 million as of December 31, 2017.
Operating activities generated cash of $65.6 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
Net income for this period was $47.2 million; we also incurred non-cash stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization of $16.1 million, $14.4 million and $4.0 million, respectively.
Sources of cash also included a $2.9 million decrease in accounts receivable due to the timing of cash receipts and a $2.6 million increase in accounts payable, excluding payables related to property and equipment, due primarily to the timing of payments.
Operating activities generated cash of $54.6 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2017.
Net income for this period was $44.5 million; we also incurred non-cash stock-based compensation, depreciation and amortization expenses of $17.8 million, $13.3 million and $4.6 million, respectively.
Our investing activities provided $69.3 million of cash in the nine months ended September 30, 2018, consisting of $89.3 million from sales and maturities of marketable securities, net of purchases, partially offset by $19.1 million for purchases of property and equipment, primarily for manufacturing.
Our investing activities in the nine months ended September 30, 2017, resulted in a $54.9 million net use of cash, consisting of $25.4 million for purchases of marketable securities, net of maturities, and $29.6 million for purchases of property and equipment, primarily production-related machinery and equipment.
Our financing activities in the nine months ended September 30, 2018, resulted in an $80.0 million net use of cash, consisting of $74.4 million for the repurchase of our common stock and $14.2 million for the payment of dividends to stockholders.
Our financing activities in the nine months ended September 30, 2017, resulted in a $11.1 million net use of cash, which consisted of $12.5 million for the payment of dividends to stockholders and $6.7 million for the repurchase of our common stock, partially offset by proceeds of $8.1 million from the issuance of common stock, including the exercise of employee stock options and the issuance of shares through our employee stock purchase plan.
In the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we purchased approximately 1.1 million shares for approximately $74.4 million.


item3.txt
There has not been a material change in our exposure to foreign currency exchange and interest rate risks from that described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Foreign Currency Exchange Risk.
As of September 30, 2018, our primary transactional currency was U.S. dollars; in addition, we hold cash in Swiss francs and euro.
The foreign exchange rate fluctuation between the U.S. dollar versus the Swiss franc and euro is recorded in other income in our condensed consolidated statements of income.
As of September 30, 2018, and December 31, 2017, we did not have an open foreign currency hedge program utilizing foreign currency forward exchange contracts.
Each year, our management and these two suppliers review and negotiate future pricing; the negotiated pricing is denominated in U.S. dollars but is subject to contractual exchange rate provisions.


part2.txt
In January 2018, our board of directors authorized the use of an additional $30.0 million for the repurchase of our common stock, which was announced on February 1, 2018.
As of September 30, 2018, we had used up the entire amount authorized for repurchase.
In October 2018, our board of directors authorized the use of an additional $80.0 million for the repurchase of our common stock, which was announced on October 25, 2018.


