item1.txt
Except for the adoption of the new accounting standards for leases mentioned below, no material changes have been made to the Company’s significant accounting policies disclosed in Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Pronouncements, in its Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed on February 13, 2019, for the year ended December 31, 2018.
Upon adoption, the Company recognized both right-of-use assets and corresponding lease liabilities of approximately $7.3 million and $7.2 million, respectively, on the condensed consolidated balance sheet.
Stock-based compensation expense in the three months ended September 30, 2019, was approximately $5.1 million, comprising approximately $4.4 million related to restricted stock unit (RSU) awards, $0.3 million related to performance-based (PSU) awards and long-term performance-based (PRSU) awards and $0.4 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan.
In the nine months ended September 30, 2019, stock-based compensation expense was approximately $15.0 million, comprising approximately $13.2 million related to RSUs, $0.6 million related to PSUs and PRSUs and $1.2 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan.
Stock-based compensation expense in the three months ended September 30, 2018, was approximately $4.4 million, comprising approximately $4.2 million related to RSUs, a reduction to expense of $0.1 million related to PSUs and PRSUs and $0.3 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan.
In the nine months ended September 30, 2018, stock-based compensation expense was approximately $16.1 million, comprising approximately $12.4 million related to RSUs, $2.6 million related to PSUs and PRSUs and $1.1 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan.
Under the performance-based awards program, the Company grants awards in the performance year in an amount equal to twice the target number of shares to be issued if the maximum performance metrics are met.
The actual number of shares the recipient receives is determined at the end of a three-year performance period based on results achieved versus the Company's performance goals, and may range from zero to 200% of the target number.
The Company's top ten customers accounted for approximately 55% and 54% of net revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, and approximately 56% and 57%, respectively, of net revenues in the corresponding periods of the previous year.
In each of three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, one customer, a distributor of the Company's products, accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s net revenues.
On October 4, 2019, the Company entered into a binding term sheet (the “Term Sheet”) with ON Semiconductor Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries Fairchild Semiconductor and Semiconductor Components Industries, LLC (collectively, “ON”) pursuant to which the parties agreed to end all outstanding legal and administrative disputes.
On October 20, 2004, the Company filed a complaint against Fairchild Semiconductor International, Inc. and Fairchild Semiconductor Corporation (referred to collectively as “Fairchild”) in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware.
In its complaint, the Company alleged that Fairchild has and is infringing four of Power Integrations’ patents pertaining to pulse width modulation (PWM) integrated circuit devices.
The Court issued a claim construction order on March 31, 2006, which was favorable to the Company.
At the close of the first trial, on October 10, 2006, the jury returned a verdict in favor of the Company finding all asserted claims of all four patents-in-suit to be willfully infringed by Fairchild and awarding $34.0 million in damages.
On September 21, 2007, the jury returned a verdict in the Company’s favor, affirming the validity of the asserted claims of all four patents-in-suit.
Fairchild submitted further materials on the issue of enforceability along with various other post-trial motions, and the Company filed post-trial motions seeking a permanent injunction and increased damages and attorneys’ fees, among other things.
On December 12, 2008, the Court ruled on the remaining post-trial motions, including granting a permanent injunction, reducing the damages award to $6.1 million, granting Fairchild a new trial on the issue of willful infringement in view of an intervening change in the law, and denying the Company’s motion for increased damages and attorneys’ fees with leave to renew the motion after the resolution of the issue of willful infringement.
The District Court temporarily extended the stay pending the Federal Circuit ruling on Fairchild’s pending motion, but the Federal Circuit dismissed Fairchild’s appeal and denied its motion on May 5, 2009, and the District Court issued an order on May 13, 2009 confirming the reinstatement of the permanent injunction as originally entered in December 2008.
On February 3, 2011, the Court entered final judgment in favor of the Company for a total damages award of $12.9 million.
Fairchild filed a notice of appeal challenging the final judgment and a number of the underlying rulings, and the Company filed a cross-appeal seeking to increase the damages award.
affirming Fairchild’s infringement of certain claims that support the basis for the permanent injunction while reversing, vacating, and remanding the findings with respect to other claims, including the Company’s claim for damages.
The Company filed a petition seeking Supreme Court review of the Federal Circuit’s ruling on damages issues, and the Supreme Court called for a response from Fairchild but ultimately declined to review the case.
On remand, the District Court reinstated the prior findings that Fairchild willfully infringed three of the Company’s patents; the Company intends to pursue its claim for financial compensation based on Fairchild’s infringement.
Moreover, following a new Supreme Court case on patent damages, the District Court on October 4, 2018 determined that the Federal Circuit’s ruling on damages in the earlier appeal had been overruled; that issue is now on appeal at the Federal Circuit, with briefing completed to determine the impact of the Supreme Court’s ruling and the scope of the proceedings on remand.
However, this case is subject to the Definitive Agreement noted above, whereby the Company and ON are filing papers to dismiss, withdraw, or terminate all of the pending legal proceedings between the parties.
On May 23, 2008, the Company filed a complaint against Fairchild Semiconductor International, Inc., Fairchild Semiconductor Corporation, and Fairchild’s wholly owned subsidiary System General Corporation (referred to collectively as “Fairchild”), in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware.
In its complaint, the Company alleged that Fairchild has infringed and is infringing three patents pertaining to power supply controller integrated circuit devices.
Fairchild answered the Company’s complaint on November 7, 2008, denying infringement and asking for a declaration from the Court that it does not infringe any Power Integrations patent and that the patents are invalid and unenforceable.
Fairchild’s answer also included counterclaims accusing the Company of infringing three patents pertaining to primary side power conversion integrated circuit devices.
The Company has answered Fairchild’s counterclaims, denying infringement and asking for a declaration from the Court that it does not infringe any Fairchild patent and that the Fairchild patents are invalid.
On March 5, 2009, Fairchild filed a motion for summary judgment to preclude any recovery for post-verdict sales of parts found to infringe in the parties’ other ongoing litigation, described above, and the Company filed its opposition and a cross-motion to preclude Fairchild from re-litigating the issues of infringement and damages for those same products.
On June 26, 2009, the Court held a hearing on the parties’ motions, and on July 9, 2009 the Court issued an order denying the parties’ motions but staying proceedings with respect to the products that were found to infringe and which are subject to the injunction in the other Delaware case between the parties pending the entry of final judgment in that case; those products are expected to be addressed in the context of the parties’ remand proceedings following the appeal in their earlier litigation in Delaware, and the remainder of the case is proceeding.
On December 18, 2009, the Court issued an order construing certain terms in the asserted claims of the Company’s and Fairchild’s patents in suit.
The parties thereafter filed and argued a number of motions for summary judgment, and the Court denied the majority of the parties’ motions but granted the Company’s motion to preclude Fairchild from re-arguing validity positions that were rejected in the prior case between the parties.
On April 18, 2011, the Court rescheduled the trial to begin in January 2012, and on June 2, 2011, the Court moved the trial date to April 2012 to permit the parties to address another patent the Company accused Fairchild of infringing.
Following a trial in April 2012, the jury returned a verdict finding that Fairchild infringes two of the Company’s patents, that Fairchild has induced others to infringe the Company’s patents, and also upheld the validity of the infringed patents.
Of the two remaining counterclaim patents Fairchild asserted in the case, one was found not to be infringed, but the jury found the second patent to be infringed by a limited number of the Company’s products, although the jury further found the Company did not induce infringement by any customers, including customers outside the United States.
On March 29, 2013, the District Court denied most of the parties’ post-trial motions on liability but granted the Company’s motion for judgment as a matter of law finding that Fairchild infringed another of the Company’s patents.
The Company challenged adverse findings on appeal; nevertheless, the Company estimated that even if the verdict on Fairchild’s patent had ultimately been upheld, the sales potentially impacted would have amounted to less than 0.5% of the Company’s revenues.
The Company requested an injunction preventing further infringement of its own patents by Fairchild, and Fairchild requested an injunction as well.
Following a hearing on the issue in June 2014, the Court denied Fairchild’s request for an injunction against the Company and granted the Company’s request for an injunction against Fairchild.
After briefing was completed, oral argument on the appeal took place in early July 2016, and on December 12, 2016, the Federal Circuit issued its opinion in the appeal, overturning the lone infringement verdict against the Company, finding one of the Company’s patents invalid, and overturning the District Court’s jury instruction on inducement.
In view of the Federal Circuit’s rejection of the District Court’s jury instruction on inducement, the Court also vacated the inducement findings and associated injunction against Fairchild and remanded the case for a retrial on inducement, but the underlying validity and infringement findings against Fairchild on those two patents remain intact.
However, this case is subject to the Definitive Agreement noted above, whereby the Company and ON are filing papers to dismiss, withdraw, or terminate all of the pending legal proceedings between the parties.
The PTO also instituted proceedings in response to ON Semiconductor’s eleven petitions filed against patents the Company asserted against ON Semiconductor.
The PTO has rejected a number of the Company’s patent claims in the context of all of these ongoing proceedings, and further proceedings and appeals regarding the various IPRs are expected in the coming months as well.
Although the validity of many of the Company’s challenged patents has previously been confirmed in the Company’s District Court litigation with Fairchild and in many cases in prior PTO reexamination proceedings as well, and though the Company intends to vigorously defend the validity of its patents, the outcome of the IPR proceedings is uncertain.
These PTO proceedings with ON Semiconductor are subject to the Definitive Agreement noted above, whereby the Company and ON are filing papers to dismiss, withdraw, or terminate all of the pending legal proceedings between the parties.
On April 1, 2016, Opticurrent, LLC filed a complaint against the Company in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas.
The Company filed a motion to transfer the case to California, which the Court granted, and the case was assigned to a new judge in San Francisco following the transfer.
On December 21, 2018, the Court granted the Company’s challenge to Opticurrent’s damages expert but denied the Company’s motion for summary judgment.
Following a trial in February 2019, a jury issued a finding of direct infringement by the Company but found that the Company did not induce infringement, and awarded Opticurrent damages of $6.7 million.
The Company challenged those findings in post-trial proceedings, and the Court granted one of the Company’s post-trial motions, reducing the damages award to $1.2 million.
On November 1, 2016, the Company filed a lawsuit against ON Semiconductor in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California to address ON Semiconductor’s infringement of six patents.
In consolidating the pleadings from the California and Arizona cases following the transfer of ON Semiconductor’s case from Arizona, ON Semiconductor asserted two additional patents, bringing the total number of patents asserted against the Company to eight in this case, and ON Semiconductor’s amended complaint also seeks a declaration of non-infringement with respect to another of the Company’s patents that was previously asserted against Fairchild Semiconductor.
However, this case is subject to the the Definitive Agreement noted above, whereby the Company and ON are filing papers to dismiss, withdraw, or terminate all of the pending legal proceedings between the parties.
On December 27, 2016, ON Semiconductor filed a complaint against the Company in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas.
In its complaint, ON Semiconductor alleged that the Company has infringed and is infringing six patents and requests injunctive relief.
After the Company filed a motion to dismiss, ON Semiconductor filed an amended complaint; the Company has answered ON Semiconductor’s complaint and asserted claims for infringement of several of the Company’s patents.
This case is subject to the Definitive Agreement noted above, whereby the Company and ON are filing papers to dismiss, withdraw, or terminate all of the pending legal proceedings between the parties.
In November 2017, ON Semiconductor filed suit against the Company in Taiwan charging the Company with infringing three Taiwanese patents and seeking an injunction and damages of approximately $1.0 million.
After a number of hearings and briefings on various disputed issues, including issues of jurisdiction, claim construction, validity, and infringement, the court on April 8, 2019 denied ON Semiconductor’s claims and dismissed the case; ON Semiconductor has filed an appeal, and further proceedings were expected take place over the coming months.
This case is subject to the Definitive Agreement noted above, whereby the Company and ON are filing papers to dismiss, withdraw, or terminate all of the pending legal proceedings between the parties.


item2.txt
These include the introduction of products that enable us to address higher-power AC-DC applications (such as our Hiper™ product families), the introduction of LED-driver products, and our entry into the gate-driver market through the acquisition of CT-Concept Technologie AG in 2012.
Our net revenues were $114.2 million and $110.1 million in the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $306.2 million and $322.6 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The increase in the three month period was due primarily to growth in the communications end market, driven by increased demand for our products in cellphone chargers.
Net revenues decreased in the nine-month period as the broad-based decline in demand across the consumer and industrial end markets outweighed growth in the communications end market.
Our top ten customers, including distributors that resell to original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, and merchant power supply manufacturers, accounted for 55% and 54% of our net revenues in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, and 56% and 57% of net revenues in each of the respective corresponding periods of 2018.
Our top customer, a distributor of our products, accounted for approximately 11% of our net revenues in each of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, and 14% in each of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018.
International sales accounted for 97% of our net revenues in each of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 96% of net revenues in each of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018.
Our gross margin for each of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 was 51%, and was 52% in each of the corresponding periods of 2018.
The decrease in gross margin was due primarily to increased wafer substrate costs along with an unfavorable change in end-market mix, with a greater percentage of revenues coming from lower-margin end-markets.
Total operating expenses were $40.6 million and $39.0 million in the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $121.8 million and $119.2 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Net revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 were $114.2 million and $306.2 million, respectively, and $110.1 million and $322.6 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods of 2018.
The increase in the three month period was due primarily to growth in the communications end market, driven by increased demand for our products in cellphone chargers.
Net revenues decreased in the nine-month period as the broad-based decline in demand across the consumer and industrial end markets outweighed the growth in the communications end market.
International sales, consisting of sales outside of the United States of America based on “bill to” customer locations, were $111.3 million and $298.1 million in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, and $105.6 million and $310.6 million, respectively, in the corresponding periods of 2018.
Although power converters using our products are distributed to end markets worldwide, most are manufactured in Asia.
As a result, sales to this region represented 77% of our net revenues in each of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, and 77% in each of the corresponding periods of 2018.
Sales to distributors accounted for 68% and 73% of net revenues in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, and 76% in each of the corresponding periods of 2018.
In each of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, one customer, a distributor of our products, accounted for more than 10% of our net revenues.
Gross margin decreased in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, compared with the same period in the prior year, due primarily to increased wafer substrate costs along with an unfavorable change in end-market mix with a greater percentage of revenues coming from lower-margin end-markets.
Other income increased in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the same period in 2018 primarily due to an increase in interest income reflecting higher yields earned on our cash and investments.
Operating activities generated cash of $42.3 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2019.
Net income for this period was $35.2 million; we also incurred non-cash stock-based compensation expense, depreciation, amortization and deferred income taxes of $15.0 million, $14.3 million, $3.8 million and $1.3 million, respectively.
These sources of cash were partially offset by a $14.8 million increase in accounts receivable due to increased customer shipments, a $7.9 million increase in inventories reflecting impact of a market slowdown during the first half of the year and anticipation of future demand, a $2.6 million decrease in accounts payable, excluding payables related to property and equipment, due primarily to the timing of payments, and a $3.0 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets, primarily driven by prepaid legal fees, prepaid taxes and advances to suppliers.
Operating activities generated cash of $65.6 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
Net income for this period was $47.2 million; we also incurred non-cash stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization of $16.1 million, $14.4 million and $4.0 million, respectively.
Sources of cash also included a $2.9 million decrease in accounts receivable due to the timing of cash receipts and a $2.6 million increase in accounts payable, excluding payables related to property and equipment, due primarily to the timing of payments.
These sources of cash were partially offset by a $17.1 million increase in inventories, partially reflecting lower-than-normal inventory levels at the beginning of the year, but also driven by our decision to build inventory in order to capitalize on extended lead times and limited availability for certain competing products.
Also offsetting the sources of cash was a $2.7 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets, primarily driven by prepaid legal expenses and advances to suppliers.
Our investing activities in the nine months ended September 30, 2019, resulted in an $83.8 million net use of cash, primarily consisting of $69.1 million for purchases of marketable securities, net of sales and maturities, and $14.3 million for purchases of property and equipment, primarily production-related machinery and equipment.
Our investing activities provided $69.3 million of cash in the nine months ended September 30, 2018, consisting of $89.3 million from sales and maturities of marketable securities, partially offset by $19.1 million for purchases of property and equipment, primarily production-related machinery and equipment.
Our financing activities in the nine months ended September 30, 2019, resulted in a $12.5 million net use of cash, consisting of $14.9 million for the payment of dividends to stockholders and $7.3 million for the repurchase of our common stock.
Our financing activities in the nine months ended September 30, 2018, resulted in an $80.0 million net use of cash, consisting of $74.4 million for the repurchase of our common stock and $14.2 million for the payment of dividends to stockholders.


item3.txt
Foreign Currency Exchange Risk.
As of September 30, 2019, our primary transactional currency was U.S. dollars; in addition, we hold cash in Swiss francs and euro.
As of September 30, 2019, and December 31, 2018, we did not have an open foreign currency hedge program utilizing foreign currency forward exchange contracts.


item4.txt
Any control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance as to the tested objectives.
Disclosure controls and procedures are controls and other procedures designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed in our reports filed under the Exchange Act, such as this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms.
Disclosure controls and procedures include controls and procedures designed to provide reasonable assurance that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive 


part2.txt
Information with respect to this item may be found in Note 13, Legal Proceedings and Contingencies, in our Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which information is incorporated herein by reference.


