The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
FASB ASU No. 2018-07, "Improvements to Nonemployee Share-Based Payment Accounting" ("ASU 2018-07"). Effective January 1, 2019, the Company adopted ASU 2018-07. The standard more closely aligns the accounting for employee and nonemployee share-based payments. The standard did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements or disclosures.
Note 1.Basis of Presentation - (Continued)
Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements - (Continued)
FASB ASU No. 2018-15, “Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That is a Service Contract” (“ASU 2018-15”). Effective January 1, 2019, the Company adopted ASU 2018-15. The amendments in this update align the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software (and hosting arrangements that include an internal-use software license). The accounting for the service element of a hosting arrangement that is a service contract is not affected by the amendments in this update. The standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. 
Revenue Recognition
The Company designs, markets and sells products primarily as commercial, off-the-shelf products. Certain customers request different system configurations, based on standard options or accessories that the Company offers. Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for those products or services. The Company regularly enters into contracts that can include various combinations of products and services, which are generally capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations. In such situations, contract values are allocated to each performance obligation based on its relative estimated standalone selling price. The vast majority of the Company's revenues are recognized at a point in time when goods are transferred to a customer. However, for certain contracts that include highly customized components, if performance does not create an asset with an alternative use and termination for convenience clauses provide an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, revenue is recognized over time as the performance obligation is satisfied.
Revenue includes certain shipping and handling costs and is stated net of third party agency fees. Shipping and handling costs associated with outbound freight after control over a product has transferred to a customer are accounted for as a fulfillment cost and are included in cost of goods sold. Revenue is recognized net of allowances for returns and net of taxes collected from customers which are subsequently remitted to governmental authorities.
The Company's products are sold with warranty provisions that require it to remedy deficiencies in quality or performance of the Company's products over a specified period of time, generally twelve to twenty-four months, at no cost to its customers. Warranty liabilities are established at the time that revenue is recognized at levels that represent the Company's estimate of the costs that will be incurred to fulfill those warranty requirements.
Provisions for estimated losses on sales or related receivables are recorded when identified. Service revenue is deferred and recognized over the contract period, as is the case for extended warranty contracts, or recognized as services are provided. 
See Note 19, "Operating Segments and Related Information - Revenue and Long-Lived Assets by Geographic Area" for information related to the Company’s revenues disaggregated by significant geographical region and operating segment.
The timing of revenue recognition, billings and cash collections results in billed accounts receivable, unbilled receivables and deferred revenue and advance payments from customers on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Contract assets and liabilities are reported on a contract-by-contract basis. The Company had no material deferred contract costs recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of March 31, 2019.
Remaining Performance Obligations
Remaining performance obligations represent the aggregate transaction price allocated to performance obligations with an original contract term greater than one year which are fully or partially unsatisfied at the end of the period. While the remaining performance obligation disclosure is similar in concept to backlog, the definition of remaining performance obligations excludes contracts that provide the customer with the right to cancel or terminate for convenience with no substantial penalty, even if historical experience indicates the likelihood of cancellation or termination is remote. The Company has elected to exclude contracts with customers with an original term of one year or less from remaining performance obligations while these contracts are included within backlog. 
As of March 31, 2019, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations was approximately $123.6 million. The Company expects to recognize revenue on approximately 84 percent of the remaining performance obligations over the next twelve months, and the remainder recognized thereafter.
Stock Incentive Plans
Employee Stock Purchase Plan
The Company has an Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the “ESPP”) which allows employees to purchase shares of the Company’s common stock at 85 percent of the fair market value at the lower of either the date of enrollment or the purchase date. The ESPP provides for six-month offerings commencing on May 1 and November 1 of each year with purchases on April 30 and October 31 of each year. Shares purchased under the 2009 ESPP must be held by employees for a period of at least 18 months after the date of purchase. On April 19, 2019, the Company's shareholders approved the FLIR Systems, Inc. 2019 Employee Stock Purchase Plan ("2019 ESPP"). The final purchase under the 2009 ESPP was on April 30, 2019 and the first offering under the 2019 ESPP commenced on May 1, 2019. 
Note 3. Stock-based Compensation - (Continued)
As of March 31, 2019, the Company had approximately $45.5 million of total unrecognized stock-based compensation costs, net of estimated forfeitures, to be recognized over a weighted average period of two years.
Note 4.Net Earnings Per Share 
The effect of stock-based compensation awards for three months ended March 31, 2019, which in the aggregate consisted of 58,000 shares have been excluded for purposes of diluted earnings per share since the effect of their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive. There were no shares excluded for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
Level 1 – quoted prices in active markets for identical securities as of the reporting date;
Level 2 – other significant directly or indirectly observable inputs, including quoted prices for similar securities, interest rates, prepayment speeds, credit risk, and observable market prices for identical instruments that are traded in less active markets; and
Level 3 – significant inputs that are generally less observable than objective sources, including our own assumptions in determining fair value.
The factors or methodology used for valuing securities are not necessarily an indication of the risk associated with investing in those securities.
The Company had $0.7 million and $200.0 million of cash equivalents at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively, which were primarily investments in money market funds and overnight deposits. The Company has categorized its cash equivalents as a Level 1 financial asset, measured at fair value based on quoted prices in active markets of identical assets. All cash equivalents are in instruments that are convertible to cash daily. The fair value of the Company’s foreign currency contracts as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, and the interest rate swap contract as of March 31, 2019 are disclosed in Note 6, "Derivative Financial Instruments," and are based on Level 2 inputs. The fair value of the Company's borrowings under the Credit Agreement as described in Note 13, "Credit Agreement," as of March 31, 2019 approximates the carrying value. The fair value of the Company’s senior unsecured notes as described in Note 14, "Long-Term Debt," is approximately $427.0 million and $418.8 million based upon Level 2 inputs at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.
Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk
The Company enters into foreign currency forward contracts not formally designated as hedges to manage the consolidated exchange rate risk associated with the remeasurement of non-functional currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities. Changes in fair value of foreign currency forward contracts are recognized in income at the end of each reporting period based on the difference between the contract rate and the spot rate. In general, these gains and losses are offset in the Consolidated Statements of Income by the reciprocal gains and losses from the underlying assets or liabilities which originally gave rise to the exposure. The net amount of the gains and losses related to derivative instruments recorded in other expense (income), net for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 were a net gain of $0.3 million and a net loss of $4.7 million, respectively. 
At March 31, 2019, the Company’s foreign currency forward contracts, in general, had maturities of three months or less.
Note 6. Derivative Financial Instruments - (Continued)
Interest Rate Swap Contracts 
The Company is managing its interest rate risk related to certain floating rate debt through a floored amortizing interest rate swap (“floored swap”) in which the Company receives floating rate payments subject to a floor of zero percent and makes fixed rate payments. The impact of the floored swap is to fix the floating rate basis for the calculation of interest on the unsecured Swedish kronor term loan at the levels indicated in the table below. The effective interest rate paid is equal to the fixed rates shown below plus the applicable spread then in effect. At March 31, 2019, the effective interest rate on the Swedish kronor term loan which includes the impact of the floored swap was 1.840 percent. 
The floored swap is designated and effective as a cash flow hedge and recorded as an asset or liability in the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value. Fair value adjustments are recorded as an adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive earnings, except that any gains and losses on ineffectiveness of the floored swap would be recorded as an adjustment to other expense (income), net. The net fair value carrying amount of the Company's floored swap was a loss of $1.1 million, which has been recorded in prepaid expenses and other current assets, other assets, other current liabilities and pension and other long-term liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of March 31, 2019.
All of the Company's derivative counterparties have investment grade credit ratings. The Company is a party to master netting arrangements that contain features that allow counterparties to net settle amounts arising from multiple separate derivative transactions or net settle in the case of certain triggering events such as a bankruptcy or major default of one of the counterparties to the transaction. The Company has not pledged assets or posted collateral as a requirement for entering into or maintaining derivative positions.
The Company determines if an arrangement is a lease at inception. Operating leases are included in other assets, other current liabilities, and pension and other long-term liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets. The Company does not have any finance leases at March 31, 2019. 
Operating lease right-of-use assets (ROU assets) represent the Company’s right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and operating lease liabilities represent the obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease. ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at the commencement date of the lease based on the present value of minimum fixed lease payments over the lease term. As most of the leases do not provide an implicit rate, the Company uses its incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments. ROU assets also include prepaid lease payments made prior to commencement of the lease plus initial capitalized direct costs and exclude tenant improvement allowances. The lease terms may include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that the option will be exercised. Lease expense for minimum fixed lease payments is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
The Company has elected to apply the short-term lease exemption in accordance with guidance, and therefore, short-term leases (leases with a term of twelve months or less) are not recorded on the balance sheet. The Company has only a small number of leases that qualify for the exemption and the amount of its remaining short-term lease commitments is not significant. 
Most of the Company’s operating leases are for buildings, warehouses and office space. These leases have remaining lease terms of approximately one year to ten years.
As of March 31, 2019, the weighted average remaining lease term for operating leases was 5.3 years and the weighted average discount rate was 4.03% percent.
Property and equipment are net of accumulated depreciation of $341.0 million and $333.4 million at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.
See Note 19, "Operating Segments and Related Information" of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the carrying value of goodwill by operating segments. 
Note 12. Intangible Assets 
Intangible assets are net of accumulated amortization of $103.3 million and $97.7 million at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.
Note 14. Long-Term Debt 
In June 2016, the Company issued $425.0 million aggregate principal amount of its 3.125 percent senior unsecured notes due June 15, 2021 (the “2016 Notes”). The net proceeds from the issuance of the 2016 Notes were approximately $421.0 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and offering expenses, which are being amortized over a period of five years. Interest on the 2016 Notes is payable semiannually in arrears on December 15 and June 15. The proceeds from the 2016 Notes were used to repay the principal amount of the notes outstanding in July 2016 and are being used for general corporate purposes, including working capital and capital expenditure needs, business acquisitions and repurchases of the Company’s common stock.
As discussed in Note 13, "Credit Agreement," of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements above, on March 29, 2019, the Company made an initial borrowing of $100.0 million in term loans in U.S. dollars, and the equivalent of $150.0 million in term loans in Swedish kronor. Both term loans amortize at 5.000 percent per annum with the current portion included in current liabilities.
On February 7, 2019, the Company's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 15.0 million shares of the Company's outstanding common stock. This authorization expires in February 2021. During the three months ended March 31, 2019, the Company repurchased 0.5 million shares of the Company's common stock through open market transactions under the under the 2019 authorization. The February 2017 authorization by the Company's Board of Directors expired in February 2019. 
On March 8, 2019, the Company paid a dividend of $0.17 per share on its outstanding common stock to the shareholders of record as of the close of business on February 22, 2019. The total cash payments for dividends during the three months ended March 31, 2019 were $23.0 million.
Matters Involving the United States Department of State and Department of Commerce 
As part of the Consent Agreement, DDTC acknowledged that the Company voluntarily disclosed certain of the alleged Arms Export Control Act and ITAR violations, which were resolved pursuant to the Consent Agreement, cooperated in the DDTC's review, and instituted a number of compliance program improvements.
In May 2017, the Company submitted an initial notification to DDTC regarding potential violations related to certain export classifications obtained through the commodity jurisdiction process and a final voluntary disclosure in August 2017. The Company also submitted a voluntary self-disclosure regarding the same matter with the United States Department of Commerce Bureau of Industry and Security ("BIS"). DDTC and BIS both acknowledged the submissions and, at the request of the agencies, the Company executed tolling agreements for this matter, suspending the statute of limitations through January 13, 2019 for DDTC and May 15, 2019 for DDTC and BIS, respectively. This matter remains under review by DDTC and BIS.
The Company is unable to reasonably estimate the time it may take to resolve these matters or the amount or range of potential loss, penalty or other government action, if any, that may be incurred in connection with these matters. However, an unfavorable outcome could result in substantial fines and penalties or loss or suspension of export privileges or of particular authorizations that could be material to the Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows in and following the period in which such an outcome becomes estimable or known.
SkyWatch Product Quality Matters
In March 2016, the Company learned of potential quality concerns with respect to as many as 315 Level III and Level IV SkyWatch Surveillance Towers sold by FLIR and companies acquired by FLIR from 2002 through 2014. The Company notified customers who purchased the affected SkyWatch Towers of the potential concerns and, as a precautionary measure, also temporarily suspended production of all Level III and Level IV SkyWatch Towers pending the completion of its review and the implementation of any necessary remedial measures. The Company identified the cause of these quality issues, notified customers of their option to request repair and modification of their in-field units, and has begun in-field repairs of identified affected units. While there still remains uncertainty related to estimating the costs associated with a potential remedy and number of units which may require such remedy, the Company currently estimates the range of potential loss on remaining units to be between $4.9 million and $12.1 million. As no single amount within the range is a better estimate than any other amount within the range, the Company has recorded an accrual of $4.9 million in other current liabilities as of March 31, 2019. Factors underlying this estimated range of loss may change from time to time, and actual results may vary significantly from this estimate.
Shareholder Derivative Lawsuit
In October 2018, a shareholder filed a derivative lawsuit in the Circuit Court of the State of Oregon for the County of Multnomah under the caption Stein v. Carter, et al., Case No. 18CV46824, against the Company, as a nominal defendant, and certain current and former directors of the Company. Pointing to the Company’s 2015 settlement with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission of alleged United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act violations and 2018 settlement with United States Department of State of alleged export control violations, the complaint alleges that the Company’s directors breached their fiduciary duties by failing to ensure that the Company had internal controls in place that would have prevented the alleged underlying misconduct and these settlements. The complaint also asserts claims for corporate waste and unjust enrichment, and seeks unspecified monetary damages from the individual defendants, injunctive relief, disgorgement of director compensation, and attorneys’ fees and costs. Because the complaint is derivative in nature, it does not seek monetary damages from the Company. However, the Company may be required to advance, and ultimately be responsible for, the legal fees and costs incurred by the individual defendants.
On January 16, 2019, the defendants moved to dismiss the complaint. On March 21, 2019, instead of opposing the defendants' motion, the plaintiff filed an amended complaint. On April 25, 2019, the defendants moved to dismiss the amended complaint. A hearing on the motion to dismiss has been set for July 19, 2019.
 The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2019, is lower than the United States Federal tax rate of 21.0 percent mainly due to a reduction in previously non-deductible interest expense and excess tax benefits from stock compensation, offset partially by state taxes, higher tax rates applied to income earned in certain foreign jurisdictions, and other discrete items.
Note 18.Income Taxes - (Continued)
As of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the Company has accrued income tax liabilities of $42.9 million related to the transition tax enacted on December 22, 2017 as part of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Of the amounts accrued, none are expected to be due within one year. The remaining transition tax will not accrue interest and will be paid in annual installments beginning in 2020 through 2024.
The Company classifies interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in the income tax provision. As of March 31, 2019, the Company had $6.2 million of accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits that are recorded as current and non-current accrued income taxes on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Industrial Business Unit
The Industrial business unit develops and manufactures thermal and visible-spectrum imaging camera cores and components that are utilized by third parties to create thermal, industrial, and other types of imaging systems. The segment also develops and manufactures devices that image, measure, and assess thermal energy, gases, and other environmental elements for industrial, commercial, and scientific applications, imaging payloads for Unmanned Aerial Systems ("UAS"), machine vision cameras, people counting and tracking, and thermal imaging solutions for use by consumers in the smartphone and mobile devices markets. Products include thermal imaging cameras, gas detection cameras, firefighting cameras, process automation cameras, and environmental test and measurement devices.
The Government and Defense business unit develops and manufactures enhanced imaging and recognition solutions for a wide variety of military, law enforcement, public safety, and other government customers around the world for the protection of borders, troops, and public welfare. The segment also develops and manufactures sensor instruments and integrated platform solutions for the detection, identification, and suppression of chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear, and explosives ("CBRNE") threats for military force protection, homeland security, and commercial applications. Offerings include airborne, land, maritime, and man-portable multi-spectrum imaging systems, radars, lasers, imaging components, integrated multi-sensor system platforms, CBRNE detectors, nano-class UAS solutions, and services related to these systems.
Note 19. Operating Segments and Related Information - (Continued)
Operating Segments - (Continued)
Commercial Business Unit
The Commercial business unit develops and manufactures cameras, video recording systems, and video management systems for use in commercial and critical infrastructure, electronics and imaging instruments for the recreational and commercial maritime market, intelligent traffic monitoring and signal control systems, and hand-held and weapon-mounted thermal imaging systems for use in a variety of applications. Products include thermal and visible-spectrum security cameras, digital and networked video recorders, and related software and accessories, a full suite of networked marine electronic systems including multi-function helm displays, navigational instruments, autopilots, radars, sonar systems, thermal and visible imaging systems, and communications equipment for boats of all sizes, traffic cameras, sensors and associated traffic management software, and thermal scopes and handheld thermal cameras. 
The Company’s chief operating decision maker ("CODM"), its Chief Executive Officer, evaluates each of its segments’ performance and allocates resources based on revenue and segment operating income. Intersegment revenues are recorded at cost and are eliminated in consolidation. The Company and each of its segments employ consistent accounting policies.
The following tables present revenue, operating income, and assets for the three segments. Operating income as reviewed by the CODM is revenue less cost of goods sold and operating expenses, excluding general corporate expenses, amortization of purchased intangible assets, amortization of acquisition-related inventory step-up, loss on sale of a business and restructuring and other charges. Net accounts receivable, inventories and demonstration assets for the operating segments are regularly reviewed by management and are reported below as segment assets. All remaining assets, liabilities, capital expenditures, and depreciation are managed on a Company-wide basis.
Note 19. Operating Segments and Related Information - (Continued)
Operating Segments - (Continued)
Note 19. Operating Segments and Related Information - (Continued)
Revenue and Long-Lived Assets by Geographic Area
Major Customers
Note 20.Business Acquisitions and Divestitures 
Business Acquisitions
On March 26, 2018, the Company completed a transaction to acquire 100% of the outstanding stock of Fishing Hot Spots, a privately held technology company for approximately $7.1 million in cash. During the third quarter of 2018, the Company finalized the purchase price allocation and recorded $2.2 million of identified intangible assets and goodwill of $4.7 million in the Commercial business unit.
On April 3, 2018, the Company completed a transaction to acquire 100% of the outstanding stock of Fishidy, Inc., a privately held startup technology company for approximately $7.1 million in cash. During the third quarter of 2018, the Company finalized the purchase price allocation and recorded $3.8 million of identified intangible assets and goodwill of $4.6 million in the Commercial business unit.
On September 10, 2018, the Company completed a transaction to acquire 100% of the outstanding stock of Acyclica, Inc., a privately held software developer for automotive roadway and intersection data generation and analysis for approximately $10.3 million, including an estimate for contingent consideration pursuant to the stock purchase agreement. The allocation of the purchase price to identified intangible assets and goodwill is subject to the final determination of the valuation of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The primary areas of the purchase price allocation that are not yet finalized relate to the valuation of intangible assets and related taxes. The final allocation of the purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed will be completed when the final assessments of the intangible assets and related taxes are completed during the first half of 2019. Goodwill and intangibles will be recorded in the Commercial business unit. The preliminary unallocated purchase price of approximately $9.9 million, including an estimate for contingent consideration pursuant to the stock purchase agreement, has been reported in unallocated assets from acquisitions as of March 31, 2019. 
On October 16, 2018, the Company acquired substantially all of the outstanding shares of SeaPilot AB, a privately held technology company for approximately $4.6 million in cash. The allocation of the purchase price to identified intangible assets and goodwill is subject to the final determination of the valuation of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The primary areas of the purchase price allocation that are not yet finalized relate to the valuation of intangible assets and related taxes. The final allocation of the purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed will be completed when the final assessments of the intangible assets and related taxes are completed during the first half of 2019. Goodwill and intangibles will be recorded in the Commercial business unit. The preliminary unallocated purchase price of approximately $4.3 million has been reported in unallocated assets from acquisitions as of December 31, 2018. 
On January 28, 2019, the Company completed its acquisition of 100% of the outstanding stock of Aeryon Labs Inc., a privately held developer of high-performance UAS for the global military, public safety, and critical infrastructure markets for approximately $210.6 million in cash. The allocation of the purchase price to identified intangible assets and goodwill is subject to the final determination of the valuation of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The primary areas of the purchase price allocation that are not yet finalized relate to the valuation of intangible assets and related taxes. The final allocation of the purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed will be completed when the final assessments of the intangible assets and related taxes are completed during the second half of 2019. Goodwill and intangibles will be recorded in the Government and Defense business unit. The preliminary unallocated purchase price of approximately $192.8 million has been reported in unallocated assets from acquisitions as of March 31, 2019. 
On March 4, 2019, the Company completed its acquisition of 100% of the outstanding stock of Endeavor Robotics Holdings, Inc. a privately held developer of battle-tested, tactical unmanned ground vehicles for the global military, public safety, and critical infrastructure markets for approximately $386.8 million in cash. The allocation of the purchase price to identified intangible assets and goodwill is subject to the final determination of the valuation of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The primary areas of the purchase price allocation that are not yet finalized relate to the valuation of intangible assets and related taxes. The final allocation of the purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed will be completed when the final assessments of the intangible assets and related taxes are completed during the second half of 2019. Goodwill and intangibles will be recorded in the Government and Defense business unit. The preliminary unallocated purchase price of approximately $368.0 million has been reported in unallocated assets from acquisitions as of March 31, 2019. 
The business acquisitions listed above are not significant as defined in Regulation S–X under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor are they significant compared to the Company's overall results of operations. Consequently, no pro forma financial information is provided.
Note 20.Business Acquisitions and Divestitures - (Continued)
Divestitures of the Consumer and Small and Medium-Sized Security Businesses
 On February 6, 2018 the Company sold the Consumer and Small and Medium-sized ("SMB") Security businesses within the Commercial business unit for total cash consideration of approximately $28.8 million. As a result of this combined sale, the Company recognized a total pre-tax loss of approximately $37.3 million (approximately $23.6 million in year ended December 31, 2017 and approximately $13.7 million in the year ended December 31, 2018). This disposal did not qualify as discontinued operations and therefore, its operating results were included in the Company’s continuing operations for all periods presented through the date of the sale.
On April 18, 2019, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.17 per share on its common stock, payable on June 7, 2019, to shareholders of record as of the close of business on May 24, 2019. The total cash payment of this dividend will be approximately $23.0 million.
On May 1, 2019, the Company acquired the outstanding stock of New England Optical Systems, Inc., a privately-held engineering and manufacturing company engaged in the design and production of technologically advanced infrared optical assemblies. The transaction consideration includes an initial $22.0 million cash payment with up to an additional $12.0 million paid over a two-year period, dependent upon achieving certain milestones. The acquisition will be reported within the Company’s Industrial Business Unit, further expanding its vertically integrated manufacturing strategy.
The Company is subject to legal proceedings, claims and litigation arising in the ordinary course of its business. See Note 17, “Contingencies” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Company’s legal proceedings.
We derive significant revenue from contracts or subcontracts funded by United States government agencies. A significant reduction in the purchase of our products by these agencies or contractors for these agencies would have a material adverse effect on our business. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, approximately 29 percent, 26 percent and 25 percent, respectively, of our revenues were derived directly or indirectly from sales to the United States government and its agencies. The funding of contracts awarded to us depends on the overall United States government budget and appropriations process, which is beyond our control. A failure to pass budget appropriations, adopt continuing funding resolutions or other budgetary decisions limiting or delaying federal government spending, could reduce government spending on our products and services and have a material adverse effect on our business and our operating results. 
As a United States government supplier, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and regulations
We may experience impairment in the value of our tangible and intangible assets
We face risks from international sales and business activities
•the imposition of and changes to governmental licensing restrictions and controls impacting our technology and products;
•restrictions and prohibitions on the export of technology and products, including any applicable changes in regulation prohibiting the sale of certain of our products to certain end users without a license;
•international trade restrictions;
•inadequate protection of intellectual property;
•changes in tariffs and taxes;
•restrictions on repatriation of earnings;
•restriction on the importation and exportation of goods and services;
•risks, costs, impacts and obligations associated with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA"), and other anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws applicable to us, and laws applicable to global trade and United States exports and costs and penalties from violations of such laws and related regulations, including the costs associated with required remedial and other increased compliance activity;
•instability in economic or political conditions, inflation, recession, actual or anticipated military or political conflicts, and potential impact due to the upcoming exit of the United Kingdom (the "U.K.") from the European Union (the "EU"), colloquially referred to as "Brexit".
Some of these factors recently have had an adverse impact on our sales and operations and increased our cost of doing business and subjected the business to additional rules, policies and procedures that impacted the operation of the Company. No assurance can be given that these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our future international sales and operations and, consequently, on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, compliance with complex foreign and United States laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business both in the United States and in international jurisdictions. These regulations include import and export laws, anti-competition laws, anti-corruption laws, such as the FCPA and the U.K. Bribery Act, and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, data privacy requirements, tax laws, and accounting, internal control and disclosure requirements. For example, on April 8, 2015, the Company and the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) entered into an agreement through entry of an Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (the “SEC Order”). The SEC Order settled charges under the FCPA with respect to incidents of improper travel and gifts involving FLIR’s Middle East operation. Pursuant to the SEC Order, we are obligated to “cease and desist” from committing any future violations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in civil and criminal fines, penalties and sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries, and could also materially affect our reputation, business and results of operations. In certain foreign jurisdictions, there is a higher risk of fraud or corruption and greater difficulty in maintaining effective internal controls and compliance programs. Further, although we have implemented and continue to implement policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies or applicable laws and regulations. 
As part of the Consent Agreement, DDTC acknowledged that we voluntarily disclosed certain of the alleged Arms Export Control Act and ITAR violations (which were resolved pursuant to the Consent Agreement), cooperated in DDTC’s review, and instituted a number of compliance program improvements.
In addition, our international contracts may include industrial cooperation agreements requiring specific in-country purchases, investments, manufacturing agreements or other financial obligations, known as offset obligations, and may provide for penalties if we fail to meet such requirements. The impact of these factors is difficult to predict, but one or more of them could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.
We face risks from Brexit
Brexit has created uncertainty about the future relationship between the U.K. and the EU. A draft withdrawal agreement was published in November 2018 but was rejected by the British Parliament and we are still uncertain about the final agreements they will reach on topics such as financial laws and regulations, tax and free trade agreements, immigration laws, and employment laws. The EU and U.K. have agreed to a further delay to Brexit until October 31, 2019, while the U.K. could leave earlier if a withdrawal agreement is ratified by the British Parliament. 
We face risks from currency fluctuations
We may not be successful in obtaining the necessary export licenses to conduct operations abroad and the United States government may prevent proposed sales to foreign governments and customers
Export licenses and other authorizations may be required from United States government agencies under the ITAR, the EAR, the Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) Regulations, the Trading with the Enemy Act of 1917, the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (“IEEPA”), the Arms Export Control Act of 1976 (“AECA”), and other similar laws and regulations for the sale, use and export of many of our products and related data and services. Thermal and infrared products and technical data have been subject to the ITAR and EAR, historically under United States Munitions List ("USML") Category XII and Commerce Control List ("CCL") Category 6. The United States Government’s export reform effort resulted in the transition of various Company products from the USML to the CCL, shifting the licensing requirements and restrictions for products regulated by the Department of Commerce under the EAR. This transition has increased the licensing requirements and restrictions on some products and reduced the requirements and restrictions on others. We can give no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining the necessary licenses from the United States Department of State or Department of Commerce required to conduct our business as presently or historically conducted. 
Although we have taken actions and continue to take additional actions necessary to implement policies and procedures to promote an improved compliance culture and programs, there is no guarantee that our actions will be effective or that government agencies will not view our actions and programs with heightened scrutiny, including as a result of events outside of our control. As a result, we may receive more restrictive provisos or limitations on new license requests, wholesale denials of our license requests, suspensions or terminations of our existing licenses, or delays in receiving new licenses resulting from requests for follow-up 
Our primary markets are volatile and unpredictable
•the size and timing of new contract awards;
•the timing of the release of government funds for procurement of our products; and
•the desire of customers to take delivery of equipment prior to fiscal year ends due to funding considerations; and
•the tendency of commercial enterprises to utilize fully annual capital budgets prior to expiration.
Amounts included in our backlog may not result in actual revenues or translate into profits
In July 2018, the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative announced a list of Chinese imports that currently face tariffs of between ten and twenty-five percent. These tariffs currently affect some of the components of our products we import from China, and we may raise our prices on those products due to the tariffs or share the cost of such tariffs with our customers, which could harm our operating performance or cause our customers to seek alternative suppliers. It is possible that further tariffs may be imposed on our other imports, or that our business will be impacted by retaliatory trade measures taken by China or other countries in response to existing or future tariffs, causing us to raise prices or make changes to our operations, any of which could materially harm our revenue or operating results. In addition, we may seek to shift some of our manufacturing supply chain to other countries, which could result in disruption to our operations.
Our business could be negatively impacted by cybersecurity threats and other security threats and technology disruptions
We face certain security threats and technology disruptions, including threats to our information technology infrastructure, attempts to gain access to our or our customers’ proprietary or classified information, threats to the physical security of our facilities and employees, threats of terrorism events, and failures of our technology tools and systems. We are subject to laws and rules issued by various agencies concerning safeguarding and maintaining infrastructure and physical security and information confidentiality. Our information technology networks and related systems are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to successfully perform day-to-day operations. We are also involved with information technology systems for certain customers and other third parties, for which we face similar security threats as for our own. In particular, cybersecurity threats-which include, but are not limited to, computer viruses, spyware and malware, attempts to access information, denial of service attacks and other electronic security breaches-are persistent and evolve quickly. Such threats have increased in frequency, scope and potential impact in recent years. Further, a variety of technological tools and systems, including both company-owned information technology and technological services provided by outside parties, support our critical functions. These technologies, as well as our products, are subject to failure and the user’s inability to have such technologies properly supported, updated, expanded or integrated into other technologies and may contain open source and third party software which may unbeknownst to us contain defects or viruses that pose unintended risks to our customers. These risks if not effectively mitigated or controlled could materially harm our business or reputation. While we believe that we have implemented appropriate measures, controls, and risk transfer mechanisms, there can be no assurance that such actions will be sufficient to prevent disruptions to critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential information, corruption of data, or financial loss.
We require user names and passwords in order to access our information technology systems. We use encryption and authentication technologies designed to secure the transmission and storage of data and prevent access to our data or accounts. These security measures are subject to third-party security breaches, employee error, malfeasance, faulty password management or other irregularities. For example, third parties may attempt to induce by fraud employees or customers into disclosing user names, passwords or other sensitive information, which may in turn be used to access our information technology systems. These security systems cannot provide absolute security. To the extent we were to experience a breach of our systems and were unable to protect sensitive data, such a breach could materially damage business partner and customer relationships, and curtail or otherwise impact the use of our information technology systems. Moreover, if a security breach of our information technology system affects our computer systems or results in the release of personally identifiable or other sensitive information of customers, business partners, employees and other third parties, our reputation and brand could be materially damaged, use of our products and services could decrease, and we could be exposed to a risk of loss, litigation and potential liability.
Risks, Uncertainties and Other Factors Related to Our Corporate Structure and Organization
Our future success depends in part on attracting and retaining key senior management and qualified technical, sales and other personnel
We must successfully manage a complex global organization
As we have grown, the size and scope of our worldwide operations have also increased substantially. We currently design, manufacture and market numerous product lines in locations worldwide. Significant management time and effort is required to manage effectively the increased complexity of the business and our failure to successfully do so could have a material adverse 
We have indebtedness as a result of the issuance of our 3.125 percent senior unsecured notes (the “Notes”) and borrowings against our unsecured credit facility, and we are subject to certain restrictive covenants under our unsecured credit facility and the indenture governing the Notes, and changes in the rate at which we can obtain indebtedness, any of which may limit our operational and financial flexibility
Our ability to meet our debt service obligations and comply with the financial covenants under our credit facility will be dependent upon our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. Our inability to meet our debt service obligations or comply with the required covenants could result in a default under the credit facility or indenture. In the event of any such default, under the credit facility, the lenders thereunder could elect to declare all outstanding debt, accrued interest and fees under the facility to be due and immediately payable. In the event of any such default under our indenture, either the trustee or the holders of at least 25 percent of the outstanding principal amount of the Notes could declare the principal amount of all of the Notes to be due and payable immediately. Our indebtedness may use LIBOR as a benchmark for establishing the interest rate. LIBOR is the subject of recent national, international and other regulatory guidance and proposals for reform. The consequences of these developments cannot be entirely predicted, but if LIBOR is no longer available or if our lenders have increased costs due to changes in LIBOR, it could adversely impact our interest expense, results of operations and cash flows.
Although we maintain insurance policies with respect to a broad range of risks, including automobile liability, general liability, workers’ compensation and employee group health, these policies do not cover all possible claims and certain of the policies are subject to large deductibles. Accordingly, we are effectively self-insured for a substantial number of actual and potential claims. In addition, if any of our insurance carriers defaulted on its obligations to provide insurance coverage by reason of its insolvency or for other reasons, our exposure to claims would increase and our profits would be adversely affected. Our estimates for unpaid 
•the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed;
•changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities;
•increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes;
•changes in available tax credits;
•changes in share-based compensation expense;
State of Oregon law and our charter documents contain provisions that could discourage or prevent a potential takeover, even if the transaction would benefit our shareholders
