PART II. OTHER INFORMATION



ITEM 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS



Refer to Part I, Item 1, Note 13 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of significant developments in our legal proceedings since January 27, 2019. Also refer to Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019 for a prior discussion of our legal proceedings.



ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS



Refer to the description of the risk factors associated with our business previously disclosed in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019. Other than the risk factors listed below, there have been no material changes from the risk factors previously described under Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019 and Item 1A of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 28, 2019.



Before you buy our common stock, you should know that making such an investment involves some risks including, but not limited to, the risks described in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019 and Item 1A of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 28, 2019. Additionally, any one of those risks could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations, which could cause our stock price to decline. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations.



Business disruptions could harm our business, lead to a decline in revenues and increase our costs.



Our worldwide operations could be disrupted by earthquakes, telecommunications failures, power or water shortages, outages at cloud service providers, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, cyber-attacks, terrorist attacks, medical epidemics or pandemics and other natural or man-made disasters, catastrophic events or climate change. The occurrence of any of these disruptions could harm our business and result in significant losses, a decline in revenue and an increase in our costs and expenses. Any of these business disruptions could require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations. Our corporate headquarters, and a portion of our research and development activities, are located in California, and other critical business operations, finished goods inventory, and some of our suppliers are located in Asia, near major earthquake faults known for seismic activity. In addition, a large portion of our current datacenter capacity is located in California, making our operations vulnerable to natural disasters or other business disruptions occurring in these geographical areas. The manufacture of product components, the final assembly of our products and other critical operations are concentrated in certain geographic locations, including Taiwan, China, Hong Kong, and Korea. Additionally, a significant portion of our finished goods product distribution occurs through Hong Kong. Geopolitical change or changes in government regulations and policies in the United States or abroad may result in changing regulatory requirements, trade policies, import duties and economic disruptions that could impact our operating strategies, 





product demand, access to global markets, hiring, and profitability. In particular, revisions to laws or regulations or their interpretation and enforcement could result in increased taxation, trade sanctions, the imposition of import duties or tariffs, restrictions and controls on imports or exports, or other retaliatory actions, which could have an adverse effect on our business plans. For example, regulations to implement the Export Control Reform Act of 2018 could have an adverse effect on our business plans. Catastrophic events can also have an impact on third-party vendors who provide us critical infrastructure services for IT and research and development systems and personnel. Our operations could be harmed if manufacturing, logistics or other operations in these locations are disrupted for any reason, including natural disasters, high heat events or water shortages, information technology system failures, military actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, regulatory or political issues. The ultimate impact on us, our third-party foundries and other suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near major earthquake faults and being consolidated in certain geographical areas is unknown. In the event a major earthquake or other disaster or catastrophic event affects us or the third-party systems on which we rely, our business could be harmed as a result of declines in revenue, increases in expenses, substantial expenditures and time spent to fully resume operations.



We receive a significant amount of our revenue from a limited number of customers within our partner network and our revenue could be adversely affected if we lose or are prevented from selling to any of these customers.





•most of our sales are made on a purchase order basis, which permits our customers to cancel, change or delay product purchase commitments with little or no notice to us and without penalty;



•our partners may develop their own solutions;



•our customers may purchase products from our competitors; or



•our partners may discontinue sales or lose market share in the markets for which they purchase our products.



We could also be restricted from selling our products or providing our technology and services due to U.S. trade restrictions. The loss of any of our large customers, a significant reduction in purchases by them, or our inability to sell to a customer due to U.S. trade restrictions would likely harm our financial condition and results of operations, and any difficulties in collecting accounts receivable could harm our operating results and financial condition.





ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS



Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities



Beginning August 2004, our Board of Directors authorized us to repurchase our stock. 



Since the inception of our share repurchase program, we have repurchased an aggregate of 260 million shares under our share repurchase program for a total cost of $7.08 billion through October 27, 2019. All shares delivered from these repurchases have been placed into treasury stock.



As of October 27, 2019, we were authorized to repurchase additional shares of our common stock up to $7.24 billion through December 2022.



The repurchases can be made in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions, or in structured share repurchase programs, and can be made in one or more larger repurchases. The program does not obligate NVIDIA to acquire any particular amount of common stock and the program may be suspended at any time at our discretion.



We previously communicated our intent to return $3.00 billion to shareholders by the end of fiscal year 2020, including $700 million in share repurchases made during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019. In the first nine months of fiscal year 





2020, we returned $292 million in quarterly cash dividends. We had no share repurchases during the first nine months of fiscal year 2020. We intend to return the remaining $2.01 billion through a combination of share repurchases and cash dividends. We do not expect to repurchase shares prior to the close of the acquisition of Mellanox.



Restricted Stock Unit Share Withholding



We also withhold common stock shares associated with net share settlements to cover tax withholding obligations upon the vesting of restricted stock unit awards under our employee equity incentive program. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2020, we withheld approximately 1 million shares at a total cost of $202 million through net share settlements. During the first nine months of fiscal year 2020, we withheld approximately 3 million shares at a total cost of $463 million through net share settlements. Refer to Note 4 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion regarding our equity incentive plans.





ITEM 6. EXHIBITS















SIGNATURE



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.





 NVIDIA Corporation 





 Colette M. Kress



 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Duly Authorized Officer and Principal Financial Officer)



