ITEM 1.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
FOR THE THREE MONTHS ENDED JULY 28, 2019 AND JULY 29, 2018
See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
FOR THE SIX MONTHS ENDED JULY 28, 2019 AND JULY 29, 2018
See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Basis of Presentation
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or U.S. GAAP, for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, Regulation S-X.
The January 27, 2019 consolidated balance sheet was derived from our audited consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019, as filed with the SEC, but does not include all disclosures required by U.S. GAAP.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments considered necessary for a fair statement of results of operations and financial position have been included.
The results for the interim periods presented are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for any future period.
The following information should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019.
Significant Accounting Policies
Except for the accounting policy for leases, which was updated as a result of adopting a new accounting standard related to leases, there have been no material changes to our significant accounting policies in Note 1 - Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019.
Leases
We determine if an arrangement is or contains a lease at inception.
Operating leases with lease terms of more than 12 months are included in operating lease assets, accrued and other current liabilities, and long-term operating lease liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet.
Operating lease assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments over the lease term.
Operating lease assets and liabilities are recognized based on the present value of the remaining lease payments discounted using our incremental borrowing rate.
Operating lease assets also include initial direct costs incurred and prepaid lease payments, minus any lease incentives.
Our lease terms include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option.
Lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
We combine the lease and non-lease components in determining the operating lease assets and liabilities.
Refer to Note 3 of these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
Fiscal Year
We operate on a 52- or 53-week year, ending on the last Sunday in January.
Fiscal years 2020 and 2019 are both 52-week years.
The second quarters of fiscal years 2020 and 2019 were both 13-week quarters.
Reclassifications
Certain prior fiscal year balances have been reclassified to conform to the current fiscal year presentation.
Principles of Consolidation
Our condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of NVIDIA Corporation and our wholly-owned subsidiaries.
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Use of Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ materially from our estimates.
On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, cash equivalents and marketable securities, accounts receivable, inventories, income taxes, goodwill, stock-based compensation, litigation, investigation and settlement costs, restructuring and other charges, and
NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
other contingencies.
These estimates are based on historical facts and various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable.
Adoption of New and Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements
Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncement
The Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued an accounting standards update regarding the accounting for leases under which lease assets and liabilities are recognized on the balance sheet.
We adopted this guidance on January 28, 2019 using the optional transition method by recognizing a cumulative-effect adjustment to the consolidated balance sheet.
Refer to Note 3 of these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
Recent Accounting Pronouncement Not Yet Adopted
In June 2016, the FASB issued a new accounting standard to replace the incurred loss impairment methodology under current GAAP with a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates.
We will be required to use a forward-looking expected credit loss model for accounts receivable and other financial instruments, including available-for-sale debt securities.
The standard will be effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021, with early adoption permitted.
We are currently evaluating the impact of this standard on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Note 2 - Merger Agreement with Mellanox Technologies, Ltd.
On March 10, 2019, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, or the Merger Agreement, with Mellanox Technologies Ltd., or Mellanox, pursuant to which we will acquire all of the issued and outstanding common shares of Mellanox for $125 per share in cash, representing a total enterprise value of approximately $6.9 billion as of the date of the Merger Agreement.
The closing of the merger is subject to approval by regulatory agencies.
If the Merger Agreement is terminated under certain circumstances involving the failure to obtain the required regulatory approvals, we could be obligated to pay Mellanox a termination fee of $350 million.
We have received regulatory approval in the United States and Mexico and are engaged with regulators in Europe and China.
In June 2019, Mellanox shareholders approved the merger.
Note 3 - New Lease Accounting Standard
Method and Impact of Adoption
On January 28, 2019, we adopted the new lease accounting standard using the optional transition method by recognizing a cumulative-effect adjustment to the consolidated balance sheet and not adjusting comparative information for prior periods.
In addition, we elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance, which allowed us not to reassess (1) whether any expired or existing contracts are or contain leases, (2) lease classification for any expired or existing leases, and (3) initial direct costs for any existing leases.
The cumulative-effect adjustment upon adoption of the new lease accounting standard resulted in the recognition of $470 million of operating lease assets and $500 million of operating lease liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The difference of $30 million represents deferred rent for leases that existed as of the date of adoption, which was an offset to the opening balance of operating lease assets.
Lease Obligations
Our lease obligations consist of operating leases for our headquarters complex, domestic and international office facilities, and data center space, with lease periods expiring between fiscal years 2020 and 2035.
NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Operating lease expense for the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2020 was $28 million and $55 million, respectively.
Operating lease expense for the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2019 was $20 million and $36 million, respectively.
Short-term and variable lease expenses for the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2020 were not significant.
As of July 28, 2019, our operating leases had a weighted average remaining lease term of 8.7 years and a weighted average discount rate of 3.70%.
NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Note 4 - Stock-Based Compensation
Our stock-based compensation expense is associated with restricted stock units, or RSUs, performance stock units that are based on our corporate financial performance targets, or PSUs, performance stock units that are based on market conditions, or market-based PSUs, and our employee stock purchase plan, or ESPP.
Equity Award Activity
As of July 28, 2019, there was $2.06 billion of aggregate unearned stock-based compensation expense, net of forfeitures.
This amount is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.5 years for RSUs, PSUs, and market-based PSUs, and 1.1 years for ESPP.
NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Note 5 – Net Income Per Share
Calculated as net income divided by diluted weighted average shares.
Note 6 – Income Taxes
We recognized an income tax expense of $54 million and $48 million for the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2020, respectively, and $79 million and $146 million for the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2019, respectively.
The effective tax rate for the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2020 was 8.8% and 4.9%, respectively, and 6.7% and 5.9% for the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2019, respectively.
The increase in our effective tax rate for the second quarter of fiscal year 2020 as compared to the second quarter of fiscal year 2019 was primarily due to an increase in the amount of earnings subject to United States tax, and a decrease of tax benefits from stock-based compensation, partially offset by an increase in the impact of tax benefits from the U.S. federal research tax credit.
The decrease in our effective tax rate for the first half of fiscal year 2020 as compared to the first half of fiscal year 2019 was primarily due to an increase in the impact of tax benefits from the U.S. federal research tax credit and stock-based compensation.
Our effective tax rates for the first half of fiscal years 2020 and 2019 were 4.9% and 5.9%, respectively, and were lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% due to income earned in jurisdictions that are subject to taxes lower than the U.S. federal statutory tax rate, tax benefits related to stock-based compensation, and the benefit of the U.S. federal research tax credit.
For the first half of fiscal year 2020, there have been no material changes to our tax years that remain subject to examination by major tax jurisdictions.
Additionally, there have been no material changes to our unrecognized tax benefits and any related interest or penalties since the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019.
While we believe that we have adequately provided for all uncertain tax positions, or tax positions where we believe it is not more-likely-than-not that the position will be sustained upon review, amounts asserted by tax authorities could be greater or less than our accrued position.
Accordingly, our provisions on federal, state and foreign tax related matters to be recorded in the future may change as revised estimates are made or the underlying matters are settled or otherwise
NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
resolved with the respective tax authorities.
As of July 28, 2019, we do not believe that our estimates, as otherwise provided for, on such tax positions will significantly increase or decrease within the next twelve months.
Note 7 - Marketable Securities
Our cash equivalents and marketable securities are classified as “available-for-sale” debt securities.
For the second quarter and first half of fiscal years 2020 and 2019, there were no other-than-temporary impairment losses and net realized gains were not significant.
The amortized cost and estimated fair value of cash equivalents and marketable securities as of July 28, 2019 and January 27, 2019 are shown below by contractual maturity.
Note 8 – Fair Value of Financial Assets and Liabilities
The fair values of our financial assets and liabilities are determined using quoted market prices of identical assets or quoted market prices of similar assets from active markets.
We review fair value hierarchy classification on a quarterly basis.
These liabilities are carried on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at their original issuance value, net of unamortized debt discount and issuance costs, and are not marked to fair value each period.
Refer to Note 12 of these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Note 9 - Amortizable Intangible Assets
The increase in gross carrying amount of intangible assets is due to purchases of licensed technology during the first half of fiscal year 2020.
Amortization expense associated with intangible assets was $6 million and $13 million for the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2020, respectively, and $6 million and $17 million for the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2019, respectively.
Future amortization expense related to the net carrying amount of intangible assets as of July 28, 2019 is estimated to be $12 million for the remainder of fiscal year 2020, $16 million in fiscal year 2021, $9 million in fiscal year 2022, $7 million in fiscal year 2023, and $5 million in fiscal year 2024.
Note 10 - Balance Sheet Components
Deferred revenue primarily includes customer advances and deferrals related to license and development arrangements and post contract customer support, or PCS.
NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Deferred revenue primarily includes deferrals related to PCS.
Deferred Revenue
The following table shows the changes in deferred revenue during the first half of fiscal years 2020 and 2019.
Note 11 - Derivative Financial Instruments
We enter into foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on our operating expenses.
These contracts are designated as cash flow hedges for hedge accounting treatment.
Gains or losses on the contracts are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income or loss and reclassified to operating expense when the related operating expenses are recognized in earnings or ineffectiveness should occur.
The fair value of the contracts was not significant as of July 28, 2019 and January 27, 2019.
We also enter into foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate the impact of foreign currency movements on monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollar.
These forward contracts were not designated for hedge accounting treatment.
Therefore, the change in fair value of these contracts is recorded in other income or expense and offsets the change in fair value of the hedged foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, which is also recorded in other income or expense.
NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
As of July 28, 2019, all designated foreign currency forward contracts mature within eighteen months.
The expected realized gains and losses deferred into accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) related to foreign currency forward contracts within the next twelve months was not significant.
During the second quarter and first half of fiscal years 2020 and 2019, the impact of derivative financial instruments designated for hedge accounting treatment on other comprehensive income or loss was not significant and all such instruments were determined to be highly effective.
Therefore, there were no gains or losses associated with ineffectiveness.
Note 12 - Debt
Long-Term Debt
2.20% Notes Due 2021 and 3.20% Notes Due 2026
In fiscal year 2017, we issued $1.00 billion of the 2.20% Notes Due 2021, and $1.00 billion of the 3.20% Notes Due 2026, or collectively, the Notes.
Interest on the Notes is payable on March 16 and September 16 of each year.
Upon 30 days' notice to holders of the Notes, we may redeem the Notes for cash prior to maturity, at redemption prices that include accrued and unpaid interest, if any, and a make-whole premium.
However, no make-whole premium will be paid for redemptions of the Notes Due 2021 on or after August 16, 2021, or for redemptions of the Notes Due 2026 on or after June 16, 2026.
The net proceeds from the Notes were $1.98 billion, after deducting debt discount and issuance costs.
The Notes are our unsecured senior obligations and rank equally in right of payment with all existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness.
The Notes are structurally subordinated to the liabilities of our subsidiaries and are effectively subordinated to any secured indebtedness to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness.
All existing and future liabilities of our subsidiaries will be effectively senior to the Notes.
Revolving Credit Facility
We have a Credit Agreement under which we may borrow up to $575 million for general corporate purposes and can obtain revolving loan commitments up to $425 million.
As of July 28, 2019, we had not borrowed any amounts under this agreement.
Commercial Paper
We have a $575 million commercial paper program to support general corporate purposes.
As of July 28, 2019, we had not issued any commercial paper.
Note 13 - Commitments and Contingencies
Inventory Purchase Obligations
As of July 28, 2019, we had outstanding inventory purchase obligations totaling $757 million.
Capital Purchase Obligations
As of July 28, 2019, we had outstanding capital purchase obligations totaling $133 million.
NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Performance Obligations
Revenue related to remaining performance obligations represents the amount of contracted license and development arrangements and PCS that has not been recognized.
As of July 28, 2019, the amount of our remaining performance obligations that has not been recognized as revenue was $418 million, of which we expect to recognize approximately 48% as revenue over the next twelve months and the remainder thereafter.
This amount excludes the value of remaining performance obligations for contracts with an original expected length of one year or less.
Accrual for Product Warranty Liabilities
The estimated amount of product returns and warranty liabilities was $17 million and $18 million as of July 28, 2019 and January 27, 2019, respectively.
In connection with certain agreements that we have entered in the past, we have provided indemnification to cover the indemnified party for matters such as tax, product, and employee liabilities.
We have included intellectual property indemnification provisions in our technology related agreements with third parties.
Maximum potential future payments cannot be estimated because many of these agreements do not have a maximum stated liability.
We have not recorded any liability in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for such indemnifications.
Litigation
Securities Class Action and Derivative Lawsuits
NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Litigation Related to Mellanox Merger
On May 3, 2019, an alleged stockholder of Mellanox filed a putative class action lawsuit alleging that the proxy statement filed by Mellanox in connection with the stockholder vote on NVIDIA’s pending acquisition of Mellanox violates Sections 14(a) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and asserting claims under those statutes against Mellanox and its board of directors as well as NVIDIA.
The complaint, which is captioned Stein v. Mellanox Technologies, Ltd., et al., Case No.
19-2428 (United States District Court, Northern District of California), seeks declaratory and injunctive relief and unspecified damages.
A number of other alleged Mellanox stockholders have filed substantially similar lawsuits against Mellanox and its directors in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California and in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, but to date, NVIDIA has not been named as a defendant in any of these other lawsuits.
Accounting for Loss Contingencies
We are engaged in legal actions not described above arising in the ordinary course of business and, while there can be no assurance of favorable outcomes, we believe that the ultimate outcome of these actions will not have a material adverse effect on our operating results, liquidity or financial position.
As of July 28, 2019, we have not recorded any accrual for contingent liabilities associated with the legal proceedings described above based on our belief that liabilities, while possible, are not probable.
Further, except as specifically described above, any possible loss or range of loss in these matters cannot be reasonably estimated at this time.
Note 14 - Shareholders’ Equity
Capital Return Program
Beginning August 2004, our Board of Directors authorized us to repurchase our stock.
During the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2020, we paid $97 million and $195 million, respectively, in cash dividends to our shareholders.
Through July 28, 2019, we have repurchased an aggregate of 260 million shares under our share repurchase program for a total cost of $7.08 billion.
All shares delivered from these repurchases have been placed into treasury stock.
As of July 28, 2019, we were authorized, subject to certain specifications, to repurchase additional shares of our common stock up to $7.24 billion through December 2022.
Preferred Stock
As of July 28, 2019 and January 27, 2019, there were no shares of preferred stock outstanding.
Common Stock
We are authorized to issue up to 2.00 billion shares of our common stock at $0.001 per share par value.
Note 15 - Segment Information
Our Chief Executive Officer, who is considered to be our chief operating decision maker, or CODM, reviews financial information presented on an operating segment basis for purposes of making operating decisions and assessing financial performance.
Our operating segments are equivalent to our reportable segments.
We report our business in two primary reportable segments - the GPU business and the Tegra Processor business - based on a single underlying architecture.
Our GPU product brands are aimed at specialized markets including GeForce for gamers; Quadro for designers; Tesla and DGX for artificial intelligence, data scientists and big data researchers; and GRID for cloud-based visual computing users.
Our Tegra brand integrates an entire computer onto a single chip, and incorporates GPUs and multi-core CPUs to drive supercomputing for autonomous robots, drones, and cars, as well as for game consoles and mobile gaming and entertainment devices.
Under the single unifying architecture for our GPU and Tegra Processors, we leverage our visual computing expertise by charging the operating expenses of certain core engineering functions to the GPU business, while charging the Tegra Processor business for the incremental cost of the teams working directly for that business.
In instances where the operating
NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
expenses of certain functions benefit both reportable segments, our CODM assigns 100% of those expenses to the reportable segment that benefits the most.
The “All Other” category presented below represents the expenses that our CODM does not assign to either the GPU business or the Tegra Processor business for purposes of making operating decisions or assessing financial performance.
The expenses include stock-based compensation expense, corporate infrastructure and support costs, acquisition-related costs, legal settlement costs, contributions, restructuring and other charges, product warranty charge, and other non-recurring charges and benefits that our CODM deems to be enterprise in nature.
Our CODM does not review any information regarding total assets on a reportable segment basis.
Reportable segments do not record intersegment revenue, and, accordingly, there is none to be reported.
The accounting policies for segment reporting are the same as for our consolidated financial statements.
The table below presents details of our reportable segments and the “All Other” category.
NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
One customer represented approximately 11% of our total revenue for the second quarter and the first half of fiscal year 2020, and was attributable primarily to the GPU business.
No customer represented 10% or more of total revenue for the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2019.
One customer represented approximately 20% of our accounts receivable balance as of July 28, 2019, and one customer represented approximately 19% of our accounts receivable balance as of January 27, 2019.
ITEM 1.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
Refer to Part I, Item 1, Note 13 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of significant developments in our legal proceedings since January 27, 2019.
Also refer to Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019 for a prior discussion of our legal proceedings.
ITEM 1A.
RISK FACTORS
Refer to the description of the risk factors associated with our business previously disclosed in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019.
There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously described under Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019 and Item 1A of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 28, 2019.
Before you buy our common stock, you should know that making such an investment involves some risks including, but not limited to, the risks described in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019 and Item 1A of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 28, 2019.
Additionally, any one of those risks could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations, which could cause our stock price to decline.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations.
