PART II.
OTHER INFORMATION
ITEM 1.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
Refer to Part I, Item 1, Note 13 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of significant developments in our legal proceedings since January 28, 2018.
Also refer to Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018 for a prior discussion of our legal proceedings.
ITEM 1A.
RISK FACTORS
Refer to the description of the risk factors associated with our business previously disclosed in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018.
There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously described under Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018.
Before you buy our common stock, you should know that making such an investment involves some risks including, but not limited to, the risks described in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018.
Additionally, any one of those risks could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations, which could cause our stock price to decline.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations.
ITEM 2.
UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
Beginning August 2004, our Board of Directors authorized us to repurchase our stock.
In November 2016, the Board authorized an additional $2.00 billion under our repurchase program and extended it through December 2020.
Since the inception of our share repurchase program, we have repurchased an aggregate of 254 million shares under our share repurchase program for a total cost of $6.16 billion through April 29, 2018.
All shares delivered from these repurchases have been placed into treasury stock.
As of April 29, 2018, we were authorized, subject to certain specifications, to repurchase additional shares of our common stock up to $1.16 billion through December 2020.
For fiscal year 2019, we intend to return $1.25 billion to our shareholders through ongoing quarterly cash dividends and share repurchases.
The repurchases can be made in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions, or in structured share repurchase programs, and can be made in one or more larger repurchases, in compliance with Rule 10b-18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, subject to market conditions, applicable legal requirements, and other factors.
The program does not obligate NVIDIA to acquire any particular amount of common stock and the program may be suspended at any time at our discretion.
As part of our share repurchase program, we may enter into structured share repurchase transactions with financial institutions.
These agreements generally require that we make an up-front payment in exchange for the right to receive a fixed number of shares of our common stock upon execution of the agreement, and a potential incremental number of shares of our common stock, within a pre-determined range, at the end of the term of the agreement.
Transactions Related to our Convertible Notes and Note Hedges
During the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, we issued 74 thousand shares of our common stock upon settlement of $2 million in principal amount of Convertible Notes submitted for conversion.
In connection with these conversions, we exercised a portion of our Note Hedges to acquire an equal number of shares of our common stock.
The counterparty to the Note Hedges may be deemed an “affiliated purchaser” and may have purchased the shares of our common stock deliverable to us upon this exercise of our option.
Refer to Note 12 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion regarding the Convertible Notes and the Note Hedges.
Restricted Stock Unit Share Withholding
We also withhold common stock shares associated with net share settlements to cover tax withholding obligations upon the vesting of restricted stock unit awards under our employee equity incentive program.
During the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, we withheld approximately 2 million shares at a total cost of $449 million through net share settlements.
Refer to Note 3 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion regarding our equity incentive plans.
ITEM 6.
EXHIBITS
+ Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 NVIDIA Corporation
 Colette M. Kress
 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Duly Authorized Officer and Principal Financial Officer)
