ITEM 2.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Forward-Looking Statements
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which are subject to the “safe harbor” created by those sections.
Forward-looking statements are based on our management’s beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to our management.
In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terms such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “goal,” “would,” “expect,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “project,” “predict,” “potential” and similar expressions intended to identify forward-looking statements.
These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause our actual results, performance, time frames or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance, time frames or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements.
We discuss many of these risks, uncertainties and other factors in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q in greater detail under the heading “Risk Factors.” Given these risks, uncertainties and other factors, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.
Also, these forward-looking statements represent our estimates and assumptions only as of the date of this filing.
You should read this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect.
We hereby qualify our forward-looking statements by these cautionary statements.
Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements publicly, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future.
All references to “NVIDIA,” “we,” “us,” “our” or the “Company” mean NVIDIA Corporation and its subsidiaries.
The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with “Item 6.
Selected Financial Data” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019 and “Item 1A.
Risk Factors” of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes thereto, as well as other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, before deciding to purchase or sell shares of our common stock.
Overview
Our Company and Our Businesses
Starting with a focus on PC graphics, NVIDIA invented the GPU to solve some of the most complex problems in computer science.
We have extended our focus in recent years to the revolutionary field of AI.
Fueled by the sustained demand for better 3D graphics and the scale of the gaming market, NVIDIA has evolved the GPU into a computer brain at the intersection of virtual reality, high performance computing, or HPC, and artificial intelligence, or AI.
Our GPU product brands are aimed at specialized markets including GeForce for gamers; Quadro for designers; Tesla and DGX for AI data scientists and big data researchers; and GRID for cloud-based visual computing users.
Our Tegra brand integrates an entire computer onto a single chip, and incorporates GPUs and multi-core CPUs to drive supercomputing for autonomous robots, drones, and cars, as well as for consoles and mobile gaming and entertainment devices.
Headquartered in Santa Clara, California, NVIDIA was incorporated in California in April 1993 and reincorporated in Delaware in April 1998.
Recent Developments, Future Objectives and Challenges
Third Quarter of Fiscal Year 2020 Summary
GPU business revenue was $2.56 billion, down 8% from a year earlier and up 22% sequentially.
Tegra Processor business revenue - which includes Automotive, SOC modules for gaming platforms, and embedded edge AI platforms - was $449 million, up 10% from a year ago and down 5% sequentially.
From a market platforms perspective, Gaming revenue was $1.66 billion, down 6% from a year ago and up 26% sequentially.
The year-on-year decrease reflects lower sales of GeForce desktop GPUs from the prior year which included the launch of Turing-based GeForce GPUs, partially offset by growth in GeForce notebook GPUs and SOC modules for gaming platforms.
The sequential increase reflects growth primarily from GeForce desktop and notebook GPUs.
Professional Visualization revenue was $324 million, up 6% from a year earlier and up 11% sequentially.
The year-on-year and sequential growth reflect strength in mobile workstation products.
Data Center revenue was $726 million, down 8% from a year ago and up 11% sequentially.
The year-on-year decline reflects lower enterprise revenue due to a different mix of products including lower DGX sales, partially offset by an increase in hyperscale demand.
The sequential increase was driven by hyperscale demand.
Automotive revenue of $162 million was down 6% from a year earlier and down 22% sequentially.
The year-on-year decrease reflects lower revenue from legacy infotainment modules and autonomous vehicle solutions, partially offset by growth in AI cockpit solutions.
The sequential decrease reflects a large non-recurring development services agreement closed in the prior quarter.
OEM and Other revenue was $143 million, down 3% from a year ago and up 29% sequentially.
The sequential increase was primarily due to growth in entry-level GPUs for notebooks PCs.
Gross margin for the third quarter of fiscal year 2020 was 63.6%, up 320 basis points from a year earlier and up 380 basis points sequentially.
The year-on-year and sequential increases are primarily driven by improved margins on GeForce GPUs for gaming reflecting the sale of previously written-off components and lower component costs.
The sequential increase also reflects higher average selling prices for GeForce GPUs.
Operating expenses for the third quarter of fiscal year 2020 were $989 million, up 15% from a year earlier and up 2% sequentially, reflecting primarily employee additions and increases in employee compensation and other related costs, including stock-based compensation expense and infrastructure costs.
Income from operations for the third quarter of fiscal year 2020 was $927 million, down 12% from a year earlier and up 62% sequentially.
Net income and net income per diluted share for the third quarter of fiscal year 2020 were $899 million and $1.45, respectively, down 27% and 26%, respectively, from a year earlier, and up 63% and 61%, respectively, sequentially.
The year-on-year decrease reflects lower revenue and higher operating expenses.
The sequential increase reflects higher revenue and gross margin.
On March 10, 2019, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, or the Merger Agreement, with Mellanox Technologies, Ltd., or Mellanox, pursuant to which we will acquire all of the issued and outstanding common shares of Mellanox for $125 per share in cash, representing a total enterprise value of approximately $6.9 billion as of the date of the Merger Agreement.
In June 2019, Mellanox shareholders approved the acquisition.
The closing of the acquisition is subject to approval by
regulatory agencies.
If the Merger Agreement is terminated under certain circumstances involving the failure to obtain the required regulatory approvals, we could be obligated to pay Mellanox a termination fee of $350 million.
We have received regulatory approval in the United States and Mexico and are engaged with regulators in Europe and China.
Although discussions with the European Union and China regulatory bodies are progressing and closing the acquisition is possible by the end of this calendar year, we believe the closing will likely occur in the early part of calendar 2020.
We previously communicated our intent to return $3.00 billion to shareholders by the end of fiscal year 2020, including $700 million in share repurchases made during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019.
In the first nine months of fiscal year 2020, we returned $292 million in quarterly cash dividends.
We intend to return the remaining $2.01 billion through a combination of share repurchases and cash dividends.
We do not expect to repurchase shares prior to the close of the acquisition of Mellanox.
Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were $9.77 billion as of October 27, 2019, compared with $7.42 billion as of January 27, 2019.
The increase was primarily related to growth in operating cash flow.
GPU Business
During the third quarter of fiscal year 2020, in our Gaming platform, we announced SUPER versions of GeForce GTX GPUs, with GeForce GTX 1650 SUPER and GeForce GTX 1660 SUPER; introduced the RTX Broadcast Engine, which uses the AI capabilities of GeForce RTX GPUs to enable virtual greenscreens, filters, and AR effects in livestreaming; announced two new models of SHIELD TV streaming media player; and expanded the reach of GeForce NOW game streaming.
In our Professional Visualization platform, we announced that a number of creative and design applications are now accelerated by RTX ray tracing.
In our Data Center platform, we launched the NVIDIA EGX Intelligent Edge Computing Platform to bring accelerated AI to retail, manufacturing, telecommunications, logistics, and other industries; announced a collaboration to integrate Microsoft Azure with EGX; entered the 5G telecom market, enabling telcos to build high performing, efficient, virtualized 5G radio access networks using GPUs; announced collaboration to deliver software-defined 5G RAN; won the first inference benchmark, MLPerf Inference 0.5, measuring AI workload performance in data centers and at the edge; partnered with VMware to accelerate VMware Cloud on AWS using NVIDIA T4 GPUs; and announced that the United States Postal Service will use NVIDA AI technology.
During the second quarter of fiscal year 2020, in our Gaming platform, we introduced GeForce RTX 2060 SUPER, GeForce RTX 2070 SUPER and GeForce RTX 2080 SUPER to our GeForce GPU lineup; accelerated the momentum of ray-tracing games by supporting newly announced blockbuster titles; introduced new RTX Studio laptops powered by GeForce RTX and Quadro RTX GPUs for online and studio-based creatives and prosumers; and announced OEMs will be launching additional gaming laptops incorporating NVIDIA GeForce Turing GPUs.
In our Professional Visualization platform, we rolled out a full range of Turing architecture-based Quadro GPUs for mobile workstations, also incorporating ray tracing for product design, architecture, effects and scientific visualization.
In our Data Center platform, we announced NVIDIA's DGX SuperPOD, which provides the AI infrastructure for our autonomous-vehicle development program; set eight records in AI training performance in the latest MLPerf benchmarking tests; and announced support for Arm CPUs, providing a new path to build highly energy-efficient, AI-enabled exascale supercomputers.
During the first quarter of fiscal year 2020, in our Gaming platform, we introduced the GeForce GTX 1660 Ti, GTX 1660 and GTX 1650 gaming GPUs with improved performance and efficiency for today’s most popular games; announced a number of gaming laptop models based on Turing GPUs from top makers; and announced that real-time ray tracing is now integrated into Unreal Engine and Unity commercial game engines.
In our Professional Visualization platform, we announced expanded adoption of NVIDIA RTX ray-tracing technology by top 3D application providers and unveiled the NVIDIA Omniverse open-collaboration platform to simplify creative workflows for content creation.
In our Data Center platform, we introduced the NVIDIA CUDA-X AI platform for accelerating data science; announced availability of NVIDIA T4 Tensor Core GPUs from leading OEMs and Amazon Web Services; partnered with global system builders to create powerful data-science workstations integrating NVIDIA Quadro RTX GPUs and NVIDIA CUDA-X AI; and launched beta access to NVIDIA Quadro Virtual Workstation software in the Alibaba Cloud Marketplace.
Tegra Processor Business
During the third quarter of fiscal year 2020, we launched Xavier NX, an AI supercomputer for robotic and embedded computing devices at the edge.
During the second quarter of fiscal year 2020, in our Automotive platform, Volvo Group announced that it is using the NVIDIA DRIVE end-to-end autonomous driving platform to train networks in the data center, test them in simulation, and deploy them in self-driving vehicles, targeting freight transport, refuse and recycling collection, public transport, construction, mining, forestry and more.
During the first quarter of fiscal year 2020, in our Automotive platform, we announced that we are partnering with Toyota Research Institute-Advanced Development to develop, train and validate self-driving vehicles; unveiled the NVIDIA DRIVE AP2X automated driving solution, encompassing DRIVE AutoPilot software, DRIVE AGX and DRIVE validation tools; introduced NVIDIA DRIVE AV Safety Force Field to enable safe, comfortable driving experiences; and announced availability of the NVIDIA DRIVE Constellation autonomous vehicle simulation platform.
Financial Information by Business Segment and Geographic Data
Refer to Note 15 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for disclosure regarding segment information.
Results of Operations
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, certain items in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income expressed as a percentage of revenue.
Revenue
Revenue by Reportable Segments
GPU Business.
GPU business revenue decreased by 8% in the third quarter of fiscal year 2020 compared to the third quarter of fiscal year 2019, which reflects declines in GPUs sold for gaming and Data Center revenue.
GeForce GPU product sales for gaming decreased 10%, reflecting a decline in shipments of desktop GPUs partially offset by revenue growth in notebook GPUs.
Data Center revenue, which includes Tesla, GRID and DGX, decreased 8%, primarily reflecting a decline in enterprise revenue due to a different mix of products including lower DGX sales, offset by an increase in hyperscale revenue.
Revenue from Quadro GPUs for professional visualization increased 6%, primarily reflecting strength across mobile workstation products.
GPU business revenue decreased by 18% in the first nine months of fiscal year 2020 compared to the first nine months of fiscal year 2019, which reflects declines in GPUs sold for gaming and Data Center revenue.
GeForce GPU product sales for gaming decreased 22%, reflecting a decline in shipments of desktop GPUs partially offset by growth in notebook GPUs.
Data Center revenue, which includes Tesla, GRID and DGX, decreased 11%, primarily reflecting a decline in hyperscale revenue partially offset by enterprise revenue growth driven by expanding AI workloads.
Revenue from Quadro GPUs for professional visualization increased 5% due primarily reflecting strength across mobile workstation products.
Our PC OEM revenue decreased by 46% primarily driven by the absence of cryptocurrency mining processor GPU sales.
Tegra Processor Business.
Tegra Processor business revenue increased by 10% for the third quarter of fiscal year 2020 compared to the third quarter of fiscal year 2019.
This was driven by an increase in revenue from SOC modules for gaming platforms, which was partially offset by a decline of 6% in Automotive revenue.
The decrease in Automotive revenue reflected slowdown of infotainment modules and autonomous vehicle solutions partially offset by growth in AI cockpit solutions.
Tegra Processor business revenue decreased by 15% for the first nine months of fiscal year 2020 compared to the first nine months of fiscal year 2019.
This was driven by a decline in revenue from SOC modules for gaming platforms, which was partially offset by an increase of 12% in Automotive revenue.
Growth in Automotive revenue primarily reflects growth in AI cockpit solutions and autonomous vehicle solutions.
Concentration of Revenue
Revenue from sales to customers outside of the United States accounted for 92% of total revenue for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2020.
Revenue from sales to customers outside of the United States accounted for 87% of total revenue for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2019.
Revenue by geographic region is allocated to individual countries based on the location to which the products are initially billed even if the revenue is attributable to end customers in a different location.
One customer represented approximately 10% of our total revenue for the third quarter and approximately 11% of our total revenue for the first nine months of fiscal year 2020, and was attributable primarily to the GPU business.
No customer represented 10% or more of total revenue for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2019.
Gross Margin
Our overall gross margin increased to 63.6% for the third quarter of fiscal year 2020 from 60.4% for the third quarter of fiscal year 2019 are primarily driven by improved margins on GeForce GPUs for gaming reflecting the sale of previously written-off components and lower component costs.
Our overall gross margin decreased to 60.8% for the first nine months of fiscal year 2020 from 62.7% for the first nine months of fiscal year 2019 reflecting product transitions and product mix offset by the sale of previously written off components associated with GeForce GPUs for gaming.
Inventory provisions totaled $42 million and $70 million for the third quarter of fiscal years 2020 and 2019, respectively.
Sales of inventory that was previously written-off or written-down totaled $78 million and $13 million for the third quarter of fiscal years 2020 and 2019, respectively.
As a result, the overall net effect on our gross margin was a favorable impact of 1.2% and unfavorable impact of 1.8% for the third quarter of fiscal years 2020 and 2019, respectively.
Inventory provisions totaled $114 million and $124 million for the first nine months of fiscal years 2020 and 2019, respectively.
Sales of inventory that was previously written-off or written-down totaled $109 million and $29 million for the first nine months of fiscal years 2020 and 2019, respectively.
As a result, the overall net effect on our gross margin was an unfavorable impact of 0.1% and 1.0% for the first nine months of fiscal years 2020 and 2019, respectively.
GPU Business.
The gross margin of our GPU business increased during the third quarter of fiscal year 2020 compared to the third quarter of fiscal year 2019, reflecting the sale of previously written off components.
For the first nine months of fiscal year 2020 compared to the first nine months of fiscal year 2019, gross margin decreased primarily reflecting product transitions and product mix offset by the sale of previously written off components.
Tegra Processor Business.
The gross margin of our Tegra Processor business decreased during the third quarter of fiscal year 2020 compared to the third quarter of fiscal year 2019, primarily driven by higher OEM product costs and product mix.
For the first nine months of fiscal year 2020 compared to the first nine months of fiscal year 2019, gross margin decreased primarily due to product mix.
Operating Expenses
Research and Development
Research and development expenses increased by 18% and 21% during the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2020, compared to the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2019, respectively, driven primarily by employee additions, increases in employee compensation and other related costs, including infrastructure costs and stock-based compensation expense.
Sales, General and Administrative
Sales, general and administrative expenses increased by 7% during the third quarter of fiscal year 2020, compared to the third quarter of fiscal year 2019, driven primarily by employee additions, increases in employee compensation and other related costs, including stock-based compensation expense and infrastructure costs.
Sales, general and administrative expenses increased by 11% during the first nine months of fiscal year 2020, compared to the first nine months of fiscal year 2019, driven primarily by costs related to employee additions, increases in employee compensation and other related costs, including stock-based compensation expense and infrastructure costs, and costs related to our plans to acquire Mellanox.
Total Other Income (Expense)
Interest Income and Interest Expense
Interest income consists of interest earned on cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities.
Interest income was $45 million and $37 million during the third quarter of fiscal years 2020 and 2019, respectively, and $137 million and $94 million during the first nine months of fiscal years 2020 and 2019, respectively.
The increase in interest income was primarily due to higher average invested balances.
Interest expense is primarily comprised of coupon interest and debt discount amortization related to the 2.20% Notes Due 2021 and 3.20% Notes Due 2026 issued in September 2016.
Interest expense was $13 million and $15 million during the third quarters of fiscal years 2020 and 2019, respectively, and $39 million and $44 million during the first nine months of fiscal years 2020 and 2019, respectively.
Income Taxes
We recognized an income tax expense of $60 million and $109 million for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2020, respectively, and an income tax benefit of $149 million and $3 million for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2019, respectively.
The income tax expense as a percentage of income before income tax was 6.3% and 5.6% for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2020, respectively, and income tax benefit as a percentage of income before income tax was 13.8% and nominal for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2019, respectively.
The increase in our effective tax rate for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2020 as compared to the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2019 was primarily due to a decrease of tax benefits from stock-based compensation and an absence of the tax benefit related to the reduction in our provisional U.S. tax reform transition tax amount.
Refer to Note 6 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
As of October 27, 2019, we had $9.77 billion in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, an increase of $2.35 billion from the end of fiscal year 2019.
Our investment policy requires the purchase of highly rated fixed income securities, the diversification of investment types and credit exposures, and certain limits on our portfolio duration.
Cash provided by operating activities increased in the first nine months of fiscal year 2020 compared to the first nine months of fiscal year 2019, due to changes in working capital driven by a reduction in days sales outstanding and a reduction in inventory.
These increases were partially offset by lower net income.
Cash provided by investing activities increased in the first nine months of fiscal year 2020 compared to cash used in the first nine months of fiscal year 2019, due to lower purchases of marketable securities and higher maturities and sales of marketable securities in preparation for the acquisition of Mellanox.
Cash used in financing activities decreased in the first nine months of fiscal year 2020 compared to the first nine months of fiscal year 2019, due to lower share repurchases and lower tax payments related to employee stock plans.
Liquidity
Our primary sources of liquidity are our cash and cash equivalents, our marketable securities, and the cash generated by our operations.
Our marketable securities consist of debt securities issued by the U.S. government and its agencies, highly rated corporations and financial institutions, asset-backed issuers, mortgage-backed securities by government-sponsored enterprises, and foreign government entities.
These marketable securities are denominated in United States dollars.
Refer to Note 7 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
As a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, substantially all of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities held outside of the United States as of October 27, 2019 are available for use in the United States without incurring additional U.S. federal income taxes.
Capital Return to Shareholders
We previously communicated our intent to return $3.00 billion to shareholders by the end of fiscal year 2020, including $700 million in share repurchases made during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019.
In the first nine months of fiscal year 2020, we returned $292 million in quarterly cash dividends.
We intend to return the remaining $2.01 billion through a combination of share repurchases and cash dividends.
We do not expect to repurchase shares prior to the close of the acquisition of Mellanox.
As of October 27, 2019, we were authorized, subject to certain specifications, to repurchase additional shares of our common stock up to $7.24 billion through December 2022.
Our cash dividend program and the payment of future cash dividends under that program are subject to our Board's continuing determination that the dividend program and the declaration of dividends thereunder are in the best interests of our shareholders.
Refer to Note 14 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
Notes Due 2021 and Notes Due 2026
In fiscal year 2017, we issued $1.00 billion of the 2.20% Notes Due 2021 and $1.00 billion of the 3.20% Notes Due 2026, collectively, the Notes.
The net proceeds from the Notes were $1.98 billion, after deducting debt discounts and issuance costs.
Revolving Credit Facility
We have a Credit Agreement under which we may borrow up to $575 million for general corporate purposes and can obtain revolving loan commitments up to $425 million.
As of October 27, 2019, we had not borrowed any amounts under this agreement.
Commercial Paper
We have a $575 million commercial paper program to support general corporate purposes.
As of October 27, 2019, we had not issued any commercial paper.
Operating Capital and Capital Expenditure Requirements
In fiscal year 2019, we began construction on a 750 thousand square foot building on our Santa Clara campus, which is currently targeted for completion in fiscal year 2022.
We believe that we have sufficient liquidity to meet our operating requirements for at least the next twelve months.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
As of October 27, 2019, we had no material off-balance sheet arrangements as defined by applicable SEC regulations.
Contractual Obligations
There were no material changes in our contractual obligations from those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019 other than our proposed acquisition of Mellanox as described in Note 2 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Refer to Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019 for a description of our contractual obligations.
Adoption of New and Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements
Refer to Note 1 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of adoption of new and recently issued accounting pronouncements.
ITEM 2.
UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
Beginning August 2004, our Board of Directors authorized us to repurchase our stock.
Since the inception of our share repurchase program, we have repurchased an aggregate of 260 million shares under our share repurchase program for a total cost of $7.08 billion through October 27, 2019.
All shares delivered from these repurchases have been placed into treasury stock.
As of October 27, 2019, we were authorized to repurchase additional shares of our common stock up to $7.24 billion through December 2022.
The repurchases can be made in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions, or in structured share repurchase programs, and can be made in one or more larger repurchases.
The program does not obligate NVIDIA to acquire any particular amount of common stock and the program may be suspended at any time at our discretion.
We previously communicated our intent to return $3.00 billion to shareholders by the end of fiscal year 2020, including $700 million in share repurchases made during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019.
In the first nine months of fiscal year
2020, we returned $292 million in quarterly cash dividends.
We had no share repurchases during the first nine months of fiscal year 2020.
We intend to return the remaining $2.01 billion through a combination of share repurchases and cash dividends.
We do not expect to repurchase shares prior to the close of the acquisition of Mellanox.
Restricted Stock Unit Share Withholding
We also withhold common stock shares associated with net share settlements to cover tax withholding obligations upon the vesting of restricted stock unit awards under our employee equity incentive program.
During the third quarter of fiscal year 2020, we withheld approximately 1 million shares at a total cost of $202 million through net share settlements.
During the first nine months of fiscal year 2020, we withheld approximately 3 million shares at a total cost of $463 million through net share settlements.
Refer to Note 4 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion regarding our equity incentive plans.
ITEM 6.
EXHIBITS
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 NVIDIA Corporation
 Colette M. Kress
 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Duly Authorized Officer and Principal Financial Officer)
