•actual or anticipated announcements of technical innovations or new products by us or our competitors.
Note 3. Business Acquisitions 
Our business is dependent on distributors to service our end customers.
The Company recognized impairment charges of $0.5 million in the six months ended September 30, 2019, compared to $1.2 million and $3.1 million in the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively. There were no impairment charges in the three months ended September 30, 2019. 
We are dependent on wafer foundries and other contractors to perform key manufacturing functions for us, and our licensees of our SuperFlash and other technologies also rely on foundries and other contractors.
We rely on outside wafer foundries for a significant portion of our wafer fabrication needs. Specifically, during the first six months of fiscal 2020, approximately 61% of our net sales came from products that were produced at outside wafer foundries compared to 57% of our net sales in fiscal 2019. We also use several contractors located primarily in Asia for a portion of the assembly and testing of our products. Specifically, during the first six months of fiscal 2020, approximately 55% of our assembly requirements and 46% of our test requirements were performed by third party contractors compared to approximately 62% of our assembly requirements and 51% of our test requirements during fiscal 2019. Our reliance on third party contractors and foundries increased as a result of our acquisitions of Microsemi, Atmel, Micrel and other companies. The disruption or termination of any of our contractors could harm our business and operating results.
A strong position in the Chinese market is a key component of our global growth strategy. The market for integrated circuit products in China is highly competitive, and both international and domestic competitors are aggressively seeking to increase their market share. Increased competition or economic weakness in the China market has recently made it more difficult for us to achieve our desired sales volumes in China. In particular, the trade relationship between the U.S. and China has worsened, economic conditions in China remain uncertain, and we are unable to predict whether such uncertainty will continue or worsen in future periods. The U.S. government has increased tariffs on products that have China as their country of 
Sales to distributors accounted for approximately 50% of our net sales in the first six months of fiscal 2020 and approximately 51% of our net sales in fiscal 2019. We do not have long-term agreements with our distributors, and we and our distributors may each terminate our relationship with little or no advance notice.
Our technology licensing business exposes us to various risks.
The product lines listed above are included entirely in the Company's semiconductor product segment with the exception of the licensing, memory and other product line, which includes products from both the semiconductor product and technology licensing segments.Our FPGA product line was primarily acquired as part of our acquisition of Microsemi on May 29, 2018. Sales of our FPGA products accounted for approximately 7.0% and 6.9% of our net sales for the three and six months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, compared to approximately 4.9% and 4.1% of our net sales for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively. These increases are due primarily to our acquisition of Microsemi.
Our gross profit in the three months ended September 30, 2019 was $827.5 million, or 61.9% of net sales, compared to $689.3 million, or 48.1% of net sales, in the three months ended September 30, 2018. Our gross profit in the six months ended September 30, 2019 was $1,642.7 million, or 61.7% of net sales, compared to $1,331.3 million, or 50.3% of net sales, in the six months ended September 30, 2018. 
Net sales of our microcontroller products decreased 10.4% and 6.3% in the three and six months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, compared to the three and six months ended September 30, 2018. These sales decreases were due primarily to adverse demand fluctuations in the markets we serve, partially offset by our acquisition of Microsemi. 
Sales of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products accounted for approximately 29.4% and 29.3% of our net sales for the three and six months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, compared to approximately 29.3% and 28.4% of our net sales for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively. The increases are due primarily to our acquisition of Microsemi, whose analog, interface, mixed signal and timing product line accounted for a relatively high percentage of its total net sales.•actual or anticipated announcements of technical innovations or new products by us or our competitors.
sourcing flexibility or increase costs. If our customers are not able to produce their products, then their need for our products will decrease. Such interruptions of our customers’ businesses could harm our business.
Our business is dependent on distributors to service our end customers.
In addition to acquisitions, we have in the past, and expect in the future, to enter into joint development agreements or other business or strategic relationships with other companies. These transactions are subject to a number of risks similar to those we face with our acquisitions including our ability to realize the expected benefits of any such transaction, to successfully market and sell any products resulting from such transactions or to successfully integrate any technology developed through such transactions.
A strong position in the Chinese market is a key component of our global growth strategy. The market for integrated circuit products in China is highly competitive, and both international and domestic competitors are aggressively seeking to increase their market share. Increased competition or economic weakness in the China market has recently made it more difficult for us to achieve our desired sales volumes in China. In particular, the trade relationship between the U.S. and China has worsened, economic conditions in China remain uncertain, and we are unable to predict whether such uncertainty will continue or worsen in future periods. The U.S. government has increased tariffs on products that have China as their country of 