Forward-Looking Statements

The discussion below contains certain forward-looking statements including, but not limited to, among others, statements concerning future revenues and future business plans. Forward-looking statements include statements in which we use words such as “expect”, “believe”, “anticipate”, “intend”, “project”, “estimate”, “should”, “could”, “may”, “plan”, “potential”, “predict”, “project”, “will”, “would” and similar expressions. Although we believe the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, the forward-looking statements are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, and thus we cannot assure you that these expectations will prove to have been correct, and actual results may vary from those contained in such forward-looking statements. We discuss many of these risks and uncertainties in Item 1A under the heading “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018. Factors that may cause such variances include, but are not limited to, our dependence on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue, our high dependence on contracts with the U.S. federal government, our reliance in certain circumstances on single sources for supply of key product components, intense competition in the market segments in which we operate, the recent sale of our German operations in our TS segment, and the recent changes in the U.S. Tax laws. Given these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Also, forward-looking statements represent our estimates and assumptions only as of the date of this document. Except as required by law, we do not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements contained in this report, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. This management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this filing and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018.

