We derive revenue from the sale of (i) hardware including, digital color label printers and specialty OEM printing systems, portable data acquisition systems and airborne printers used in the flight deck and in the cabin of military, commercial and business aircraft, (ii) related supplies required in the operation of the hardware, (iii) repairs and maintenance of equipment and (iv) service agreements.  
Headquartered in West Warwick, Rhode Island, AstroNova, Inc. leverages its expertise in data visualization technologies to design, develop, manufacture and distribute a broad range of specialty printers and data acquisition and analysis systems. Our products are distributed through our own sales force and authorized dealers in the United States. We also sell to customers outside of the United States primarily through our Company offices in Canada, China, Europe, Mexico and Southeast Asia as well as through independent dealers and representatives. AstroNova, Inc. products are employed around the world in a wide range of aerospace, apparel, automotive, avionics, chemical, computer peripherals, communications, distribution, food and beverage, general manufacturing, packaging and transportation applications.  
In May 2015 (fiscal year 2016), the Company granted an aggregate of 80,000 time-based and 155,000 performance-based RSUs (“2016 RSUs”) to certain officers of the Company. The time-based 2016 RSUs vest in four equal annual installments commencing on the first anniversary of the grant date. The performance-based 2016 RSUs vest over three years based upon the increase in revenue, if any, achieved each fiscal year relative to a three-year revenue increase goal. Performance-based 2016 RSUs that are earned based on organic revenue growth are fully vested when earned, while those earned based on revenue growth via acquisitions vest annually over a three-year period following the fiscal year in which the revenue growth occurs. Any performance-based 2016 RSUs that were not earned at the end of fiscal 2018 were forfeited. The expense for such shares was recognized in the fiscal year in which the results were achieved, however, the shares were not fully earned until approved by the Compensation Committee in the first quarter of the following fiscal year. Based upon revenue in fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016, 33,638, 9,025 and 15,810 shares of the performance based RSUs were earned in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively.  
On September 28, 2017, AstroNova, Inc. entered into an Asset Purchase and License Agreement (the “Honeywell Agreement”) with Honeywell International, Inc. to acquire an exclusive perpetual world-wide license to manufacture Honeywell’s narrow-format flight deck printers for two aircraft families along with certain inventory used in the manufacturing of the licensed printers. The purchase price consisted of an initial upfront payment of $14.6 million in cash. The Honeywell Agreement also provided for guaranteed minimum royalty payments of $15.0 million, to be paid to Honeywell over the next ten years, based on gross revenues from the sales of the printers, paper and repair services of the licensed products. The royalty rates vary based on the year in which they are paid or earned and product sold or service provided, and range from single-digit to mid double-digit percentages of gross revenue.  
The majority of our hardware products contain embedded operating systems and data management software which is included in the purchase price of the equipment. The software is deemed incidental to the systems as a whole as it is not sold or marketed separately and its production costs are minor compared to those of the hardware system. Hardware and software elements are typically delivered at the same time and are accounted for as a single performance obligation for which revenue is recognized at the point in time when ownership is transferred to the customer.  
We normally do not have contract assets, which are primarily unbilled accounts receivable that are conditional on something other than the passage of time. Our contract liabilities, which represent billings in excess of revenue recognized, are related to advanced billings for purchased service agreements and extended warranties and were $301,000 and $367,000 at April 28, 2018 and January, 31, 2018, respectively, and are recorded as deferred revenue in the condensed consolidated balance sheet. The decrease in the deferred revenue balance during the three months ended April 28, 2018 is primarily due to approximately $175,000 of revenue recognized during the period that was included in the deferred revenue balance at January 31, 2018, offset by cash payments received in advance of satisfying performance obligations.  
Significant judgments primarily include the identification of performance obligation arrangements as well as the pattern of delivery for those services. 
For the three months ended April 28, 2018 and April 29, 2017, the diluted per share amounts do not include common equivalent shares outstanding of 248,480 and 472,214, respectively, because their effect would have been anti-dilutive.  
No other new accounting pronouncements, issued or effective during the first three months of the current year, have had or are expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  
We may perform service at the request of the customer, generally for the repair and maintenance of products previously sold. These services are short in duration, typically less than one month, and total less than 9.0% of revenue for the period ended April 28, 2018. Revenue is recognized as services are rendered and accepted by the customer. We also provide service agreements on certain of our Product Identification equipment. Service agreements are purchased separately from the equipment and provide for the right to obtain service and maintenance on the equipment for a period of typically one to two years. Accordingly, revenue on these agreements is recognized over the term of the agreements. The portion of service agreement contracts that are uncompleted at the end of any reporting period are included in deferred revenue. 
In connection with the Honeywell Agreement, the Company also entered into a Transition Services Agreement (“TSA”) with Honeywell related to the transfer of the manufacturing and repair of the licensed printers from their current locations to AstroNova’s plant in West Warwick, Rhode Island. Subject to the completion of the terms of the TSA by Honeywell International, the Company may be required to make an additional payment of $0.4 million to acquire an additional repair facility revenue stream. At the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company determined that this payment was probable and recorded a $0.4 million contingent liability which is included as a current liability in the condensed consolidated balance sheet at April 28, 2018. The additional $0.4 million TSA obligation was included as part of the Honeywell Agreement purchase price and recorded as an increase to the related intangible asset.  
In connection with the Honeywell Purchase and License Agreement, on September 28, 2017, the Parties entered into a First Amendment to the Credit Agreement with the Lender. The First Amendment amended the existing Credit Agreement to permit the Honeywell Asset Purchase and License Agreement and temporarily increased the amount available for borrowing under the revolving credit facility from $10.0 million to $15.0 million. The initial upfront payment of $14.6 million for the Honeywell Agreement was paid using borrowings under the Company’s revolving credit facility.  
AstroNova has an Employee Stock Purchase Plan allowing eligible employees to purchase shares of common stock at a 15% discount from fair value on the first or last day of an offering period, whichever is less. A total of 247,500 shares were reserved for issuance under this plan. During the three months ended April 28, 2018 and April 29, 2017, there were 1,216 and 1,507 shares, respectively, purchased under this plan. As of April 28, 2018, 37,991 shares remain available.  Three Months Ended April 28, 2018 vs. Three Months Ended April 29, 2017  
Revenue from the Product Identification segment increased 7.0% in the first quarter of the current year, with revenue of $20.0 million compared to $18.6 million in the same period of the prior year. Hardware revenue increased 6.3% compared to prior year primarily due to the increase in demand for Kiaro! brand printers. The current year first quarter also received a strong contribution from the supplies product line revenue which increased 7.2% from the same period in the prior year. The current quarter increase in supplies revenue is due to the continued increase in demand for digital color printer supplies, which has experienced double-digit growth in the current year first quarter compared to the same period in the prior year. The increase in sales of label and tag products for the current quarter also contributed to the increase in supplies revenue. The Product Identification segment current quarter segment operating profit was $1.7 million, reflecting a profit margin of 8.3%. This compares to prior year’s first quarter segment profit of $2.5 million and related profit margin of 13.3%. The decline in Product Identification current year first quarter segment operating margin is primarily due to product mix and higher manufacturing and operating expenses.  
Current year first quarter gross profit was $12.1 million, a 30.1% increase compared to prior year first quarter gross profit of $9.3 million. The Company’s current quarter gross profit margin of 38.5% reflects a 0.5 percentage point increase from the prior year first quarter gross profit margin of 38.0%. The higher gross profit and related profit margin for the current quarter compared to prior year is primarily attributable to increased sales and favorable product mix.  
The Company’s statements of cash flows for the three months ended April 28, 2018 and April 29, 2017 are included on page 6 of this report. Net cash used by operating activities was $2.1 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to $0.8 million for the same period of the previous year. The increase in net cash used by operations for the current quarter is primarily due to increased cash used for working capital and increase in non-cash amortization related to the Honeywell acquisition. The combination of changes in accounts receivable, inventory, accounts payable and accrued expenses decreased cash by $5.0 million in for the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to a decrease of $2.1 million for the same period in fiscal 2018. The accounts receivable balance increased to $25.3 million at the end of the first quarter compared to $22.4 at year end and the collection cycle increased to 63 days compared to 55 days at year end. The inventory balance was $27.7 million at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to $27.6 million at year end and inventory days on hand increased to 129 days at the end of the current quarter from 124 days at the prior year end.  
Revenue for the first quarter of the current year was $31.5 million, representing a 28.7% increase compared to the previous year first quarter revenue of $24.5 million. Revenue through domestic channels for the current year first quarter was $19.2 million, an increase of 22.6% over the prior year’s first quarter. International revenue for the first quarter of the current year was $12.3 million, a 39.7% increase over the previous year first quarter and represents 39% of AstroNova’s first quarter’s revenue. Current year first quarter international revenue includes a favorable foreign exchange rate impact of $0.8 million.  There have been no material updates to the risk factors previously disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018.  