fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company is organized as a matrix comprised of three customer facing operating segments supported by a solutions and technology group.
Each of the Company’s three customer facing operating segments is focused on providing the Company’s comprehensive technical and enterprise IT service offerings to one or more agencies of the U.S federal government.
The Company's operating segments are aggregated into one reportable segment for financial reporting purposes.
As a result of the acquisition of Engility, the Company holds a 50.1% majority interest in Forfeiture Support Associates J.V. The non-controlling interest reported on the condensed and consolidated balance sheets represents the portion of FSA's equity that is attributable to the non-controlling interest.
The Company’s operating cycle may be greater than one year and is measured by the average time intervening between the inception and the completion of contracts.
The Company’s fixed interest rate swaps are considered over-the-counter derivatives, and fair value is calculated using a standard pricing model for interest rate swaps with contractual terms for maturities, amortization and interest rates.
The fair value is an estimate of the amount that the Company would pay or receive as of a measurement date if the agreements were transferred to a third party or canceled.
ASU 2016-02 became effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal 2020.
The Company elected certain practical expedients provided under the standard, including the package of practical expedients, which allows entities not to reassess whether existing contracts are or contain leases.
As a result of the adoption of the new standard, on February 2, 2019, the Company recognized approximately $169 million of right of use operating assets and $187 million of operating lease liabilities, of which $140 million was noncurrent.
Other Accounting Standards Updates effective after May 3, 2019 are not expected to have a material effect on the Company’s financial statements.
The Company disaggregates revenues by customer, contract-type and prime vs.
During the three months ended May 3, 2019 and May 4, 2018, the Company recognized revenues of $13 million and $9 million relating to amounts that were included in the opening balance of contract liabilities as of February 1, 2019 and February 3, 2018, respectively.
As of May 3, 2019, the Company had $4.1 billion of remaining performance obligations.
On January 14, 2019, the Company completed the acquisition of Engility Holdings, Inc., a leading provider of integrated solutions and services supporting U.S. government customers in the defense, federal civilian, and intelligence and space communities.


item2.txt
As one of the largest pure-play technical service providers to the U.S. government, we serve markets of significant scale and opportunity.
In fiscal year 2019, we generated greater than 95% of our revenues from contracts with the U.S. government, including subcontracts on which we perform.
These bills are funded at increased levels for defense and non-defense spending based on a bi-partisan agreement reached in February 2018 to lift caps set by the Budget Control Act of 2011 (BCA), providing additional business opportunities for the Company.
Some changes that could have an adverse impact on our business include the implementation of future spending reductions (including sequestration), government shutdowns, and issues related to mandatory increases to the nation’s debt ceiling (the debt ceiling was reached in March 2019, and the Treasury is now operating under "extraordinary measures" which will be exhausted in approximately October 2019).
The U.S. government has increasingly relied on contracts that are subject to a competitive bidding process (including indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity (IDIQ), U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) schedules, and other multi-award contracts), which has resulted in greater competition and increased pricing pressure.
We believe our long-term, trusted customer relationships and deep technical expertise provide us with the sophistication to handle highly complex, mission-critical contracts.
Through each contract's life cycle, program managers review performance and update contract performance estimates to reflect their understanding of the best information available.
For performance obligations satisfied over time, updates to estimates are recognized on inception-to-date activity, during the period of adjustment, resulting in either a favorable or unfavorable impact to operating income.
Revenues increased $440 million or 37.4% for the three months ended May 3, 2019 as compared to the same period in the prior year due to the acquisition of Engility.
Excluding acquired revenues, revenues contracted 2.8%, attributable to humanitarian relief materials in the prior year quarter and the effect of acquisition related revenue dis-synergies.
Cost of revenues increased $361 million for the three months ended May 3, 2019 as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to the acquisition of Engility.
Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues decreased from 91.4% in the prior year quarter to 88.9%, driven by cost synergies as a result of the acquisition of Engility and improved performance across our portfolio including higher net favorable changes in estimates related to performance obligations satisfied over time ($13 million).


item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 1.
In addition to the described legal proceedings, we are routinely subject to investigations and reviews relating to compliance with various laws and regulations.


