fls.txt



item1.txt
Each of the Company’s three customer facing operating segments is focused on providing the Company’s comprehensive technical and enterprise IT service offerings to one or more agencies of the U.S federal government.
$1 million and $3 million of restructuring costs for employee severance were included in cost of revenues in the condensed and consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income for the three and nine months ended November 3, 2017, respectively.
The Company’s operating cycle may be greater than one year and is measured by the average time intervening between the inception and the completion of contracts.
The Company’s fixed interest rate swaps are considered over-the-counter derivatives, and fair value is calculated using a standard pricing model for interest rate swaps with contractual terms for maturities, amortization and interest rates.
The fair value is an estimate of the amount that the Company would pay or receive as of a measurement date if the agreements were transferred to a third party or canceled.
The Company recognized a $25 million provision for inventory within cost of revenues during the three and nine months ended November 2, 2018 related to firm purchase commitments on a firm-fixed price program.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which supersedes the revenue recognition requirements and some cost guidance included in the Accounting Standards Codification (ASC).
Under this method, the Company recognized the cumulative effect of adoption as an adjustment to its opening balance of retained earnings on February 3, 2018.
In determining the cumulative impact of the adoption the Company applied the provisions of ASC 606 only to contracts that had not yet been completed at the date of adoption.
Prior periods were not retrospectively adjusted, but the Company will maintain dual reporting for the year of initial application, disclosing the effect of adoption.
Under the new standard, the Company continues to recognize revenue over time as services are rendered to fulfill its contractual obligations; however, the Company generally accounts for customer option period exercises (renewals) and service contract modifications prospectively, instead of as a cumulative adjustment to revenue under a single unit of accounting.
Also, under the new standard, award and incentive-based fees generally are recognized during the discrete periods of performance to which they relate as opposed to on a cumulative basis over the contract period.
The Company no longer defers the recognition of revenues and costs associated with significant upfront material acquisitions on programs previously accounted for using the efforts-expended method of percentage of completion.
Under the new standard, the Company recognizes revenue on an adjusted cost-to-cost basis, where the amount of revenue that is recognized is equal to the amount of costs incurred plus profit based on the adjusted cost input measure of progress.
Other Accounting Standards Updates effective after November 2, 2018 are not expected to have a material effect on the Company’s financial statements.
The Company provides technical, engineering and enterprise IT services under long-term service arrangements primarily with the U.S. government including subcontracts with other contractors engaged in work for the U.S. government.


item2.txt
We serve our customers through approximately 1,300 active contracts and task orders and employ more than 15,000 individuals who are led by an experienced executive team of proven industry leaders.
Some changes that could have an adverse impact on our business include the implementation of future spending reductions (including sequestration), government shutdowns and issues related to required increases to the nation’s debt ceiling (under current law, the debt ceiling will be reached in March 2019).
The U.S. government has increasingly relied on contracts that are subject to a competitive bidding process (including indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity (IDIQ), U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) schedules and other multi-award contracts) which has resulted in greater competition and increased pricing pressure.
We believe our long-term, trusted customer relationships and deep technical expertise provide us with the sophistication to handle highly complex mission-critical contracts.
During fiscal 2018, the Company initiated restructuring activities (the "Restructuring") intended to improve operational efficiency, reduce costs, and better position the Company to drive future growth.
For performance obligations satisfied over time, updates to estimates are recognized on inception-to-date activity, during the period of adjustment, resulting in either a favorable or unfavorable impact to operating income.
Revenues increased $32 million or 2.8% for the three months ended November 2, 2018 as compared to the same period in the prior year due to newly awarded contracts ($54 million), which includes information technology (IT) integration contracts supporting state and local customers, and increased orders in our supply chain portfolio ($24 million).
These increases were partially offset by completion of contracts and other net decreases across our portfolio ($46 million).
Revenues increased $141 million or 4.2% for the nine months ended November 2, 2018 as compared to the same period in the prior year due to revenue on new contracts primarily supporting NASA, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and state and local customers ($128 million), as well as increased orders in our supply chain portfolio ($120 million).
These increases were partially offset by completion of contracts ($72 million) and other net decreases across our portfolio ($35 million).


item4.txt



part2.txt
We have provided information about legal proceedings in which we are involved in our fiscal 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we have provided an update to this information in Note 10 of the notes to the condensed and consolidated financial statements contained within this report.
Additional information regarding such investigations and reviews is included in our fiscal 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we have also updated this information in Note 10 of the notes to the condensed and consolidated financial statements contained within this report, under the heading “Government Investigations, Audits and Reviews.”


