fls.txt



item1.txt
Each of the Company’s three customer facing operating segments is focused on providing the Company’s comprehensive technical and enterprise IT service offerings to one or more agencies of the U.S. federal government.
The Company's operating segments are aggregated into one reportable segment for financial reporting purposes.
As a result of the acquisition of Engility, the Company holds a 50.1% majority interest in Forfeiture Support Associates J.V. The non-controlling interest reported on the condensed and consolidated balance sheets represents the portion of FSA's equity that is attributable to the non-controlling interest.
The Company’s operating cycle may be greater than one year and is measured by the average time intervening between the inception and the completion of contracts.
The Company’s fixed interest rate swaps are considered over-the-counter derivatives, and fair value is calculated using a standard pricing model for interest rate swaps with contractual terms for maturities, amortization and interest rates.
The fair value is an estimate of the amount that the Company would pay or receive as of a measurement date if the agreements were transferred to a third party or canceled.
As of November 1, 2019 and February 1, 2019, the fair value of our investments total $26 million and $4 million, respectively, and was included in other assets on the condensed and consolidated balance sheets.
The Company's investments are primarily held in a custodial account, which includes investments to fund our deferred compensation plan liabilities.
As a result of the adoption of the new standard, on February 2, 2019, the Company recognized approximately $169 million of right of use operating assets and $184 million of operating lease liabilities, of which $140 million was noncurrent.
Adoption of the standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s condensed and consolidated financial statements.
Other Accounting Standards Updates effective after November 1, 2019 are not expected to have a material effect on the Company’s financial statements.
In addition, revenues were $2 million and $16 million higher for the three and nine months ended November 1, 2019, respectively, due to net revenue recognized from performance obligations satisfied in prior periods.
During the nine months ended November 1, 2019 and November 2, 2018, the Company recognized revenues of $21 million and $10 million relating to amounts that were included in the opening balance of contract liabilities as of February 1, 2019 and February 3, 2018, respectively.
During the three months ended November 1, 2019 and November 2, 2018, the Company recognized revenues of $2 million and $1 million relating to amounts that were included in the opening balance of contract liabilities as of February 1, 2019 and February 3, 2018.


item2.txt
As one of the largest pure-play technical service providers to the U.S. government, we serve markets of significant scale and opportunity.
In fiscal year 2019, we generated greater than 95% of our revenues from contracts with the U.S. government, including subcontracts on which we perform.
The U.S. government has increasingly relied on contracts that are subject to a competitive bidding process (including indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity (IDIQ), U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) schedules, and other multi-award contracts), which has resulted in greater competition and increased pricing pressure.
We believe our long-term, trusted customer relationships and deep technical expertise provide us with the sophistication to handle highly complex, mission-critical contracts.
Through each contract's life cycle, program managers review performance and update contract performance estimates to reflect their understanding of the best information available.
For performance obligations satisfied over time, updates to estimates are recognized on inception-to-date activity, during the period of adjustment, resulting in either a favorable or unfavorable impact to operating income.
Revenues increased $453 million or 38.5% for the three months ended November 1, 2019 as compared to the same period in the prior year due to the acquisition of Engility.
Adjusting for the impact of acquired revenues, revenues contracted 1.5% due to acquisition related dis-synergies.
Revenues increased $1,372 million or 39.6% for the nine months ended November 1, 2019 as compared to the same period in the prior year due to the acquisition of Engility.
Adjusting for the impact of acquired revenues, revenues contracted 1.4%, primarily attributable to the completion of certain contracts with the U.S. Marine Corps ($69 million) and the effect of acquisition related dis-synergies.
Cost of revenues increased $408 million for the three months ended November 1, 2019 as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to the acquisition of Engility.
Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues increased from 89.0% in the prior year quarter to 89.3%, due to lower current quarter net profit write-ups, partially offset by the acquisition of Engility.


item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 1.
In addition to the described legal proceedings, we are routinely subject to investigations and reviews relating to compliance with various laws and regulations.


