fls.txt



item1.txt
Each of the Company’s three customer facing operating segments is focused on providing the Company’s comprehensive technical and enterprise IT service offerings to one or more agencies of the U.S. federal government.
As a result of the acquisition of Engility, the Company holds a 50.1% majority interest in Forfeiture Support Associates J.V. The non-controlling interest reported on the condensed and consolidated balance sheets represents the portion of FSA's equity that is attributable to the non-controlling interest.
The Company’s operating cycle may be greater than one year and is measured by the average time intervening between the inception and the completion of contracts.
The Company’s fixed interest rate swaps are considered over-the-counter derivatives, and fair value is calculated using a standard pricing model for interest rate swaps with contractual terms for maturities, amortization and interest rates.
The fair value is an estimate of the amount that the Company would pay or receive as of a measurement date if the agreements were transferred to a third party or canceled.
As of August 2, 2019 and February 1, 2019, the fair value of our investments total $25 million and $4 million, respectively, and was included in other assets on the condensed and consolidated balance sheets.
The Company's investments are primarily held in a custodial account, which includes investments to fund our deferred compensation plan liabilities.
The Company elected certain practical expedients provided under the standard, including the package of practical expedients, which allows entities not to reassess whether existing contracts are or contain leases.
As a result of the adoption of the new standard, on February 2, 2019, the Company recognized approximately $169 million of right of use operating assets and $187 million of operating lease liabilities, of which $140 million was noncurrent.
In addition, revenues were $5 million and $14 million higher for the three and six months ended August 2, 2019, respectively, due to net revenue recognized from performance obligations satisfied in prior periods.
During the six months ended August 2, 2019 and August 3, 2018, the Company recognized revenues of $19 million and $9 million relating to amounts that were included in the opening balance of contract liabilities as of February 1, 2019 and February 3, 2018, respectively.
$6 million in revenues were recognized for the three months ended August 2, 2019, relating to amounts that were included in the opening balance of contract liabilities - current as of February 1, 2019.
Pre-contract costs of $1 million were expensed during the six months ended August 2, 2019 and $2 million were expensed during the three and six months ended August 3, 2018, respectively.
As of August 2, 2019, the Company had $4.2 billion of remaining performance obligations.


item2.txt
In fiscal year 2019, we generated greater than 95% of our revenues from contracts with the U.S. government, including subcontracts on which we perform.
The U.S. government has increasingly relied on contracts that are subject to a competitive bidding process (including indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity (IDIQ), U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) schedules, and other multi-award contracts), which has resulted in greater competition and increased pricing pressure.
We believe our long-term, trusted customer relationships and deep technical expertise provide us with the sophistication to handle highly complex, mission-critical contracts.
Through each contract's life cycle, program managers review performance and update contract performance estimates to reflect their understanding of the best information available.
For performance obligations satisfied over time, updates to estimates are recognized on inception-to-date activity, during the period of adjustment, resulting in either a favorable or unfavorable impact to operating income.
Revenues increased $479 million or 43.0% for the three months ended August 2, 2019 as compared to the same period in the prior year due to the acquisition of Engility.
Adjusting for the impact of acquired revenues, revenues were consistent with the prior year quarter.
Revenues increased $919 million or 40.1% for the six months ended August 2, 2019 as compared to the same period in the prior year due to the acquisition of Engility.
Adjusting for the impact of acquired revenues, revenues contracted 1.4%, attributable to humanitarian relief materials in the prior year and the effect of acquisition related dis-synergies.
Cost of revenues increased $406 million for the three months ended August 2, 2019 as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to the acquisition of Engility.
Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues decreased from 90.0% in the prior year quarter to 88.4%, as a result of the acquisition of Engility.
Cost of revenues increased $767 million for the six months ended August 2, 2019 as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to the acquisition of Engility.
Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues decreased from 90.7% in the prior year quarter to 88.6%, due to the Engility acquisition and improved performance across our portfolio including higher net favorable changes in estimates related to performance obligations satisfied over time ($15 million).


item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 1.
In addition to the described legal proceedings, we are routinely subject to investigations and reviews relating to compliance with various laws and regulations.


