fls.txt



item1.txt
In the opinion of management, the unaudited interim consolidated condensed financial statements of Applied Materials, Inc. and its subsidiaries (Applied or the Company) included herein have been prepared on a basis consistent with the October 29, 2017 audited consolidated financial statements and include all material adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary to fairly present the information set forth therein.
These unaudited interim consolidated condensed financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Applied’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 29, 2017 (2017 Form 10-K).
This guidance does not apply to inventory that is measured using last-in, first out (LIFO) or the retail inventory method but applies to all other inventory including those measured using first-in, first-out (FIFO) or the average cost method.
Applied adopted this authoritative guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 prospectively to measurement of inventory after the effective date.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, Applied recognized excess tax benefits of $51 million in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Operations.
In August 2017, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that modifies the recognition and presentation of hedge accounting to better align an entity’s risk management strategies and financial reporting for hedging relationships.
The authoritative guidance will be effective for Applied in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, with early adoption permitted.
The other components of net benefit cost are required to be presented in the income statement separately from the service cost component and outside a subtotal of income from operations, if one is presented.
The adoption of this guidance is only expected to result in reclassification of other components of net benefit costs outside of income from operations and is not expected to have a significant impact on Applied’s consolidated financial statements.
The authoritative guidance will be effective for Applied in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 on a prospective basis, with early adoption permitted.
The authoritative guidance will be effective for Applied in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and should be applied using a modified retrospective approach.
Entities will have the option of using either a full retrospective or modified retrospective approach to adopting the guidance.
With this amendment, the guidance will be effective for Applied in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, which is the Company’s planned adoption date.
In fiscal 2016, Applied established a project steering committee and cross-functional implementation team to identify potential differences that would result from applying the requirements of the new standard to Applied’s revenue contracts.
In addition, the implementation team is also responsible for identifying and implementing changes to business processes, systems and controls to support recognition and disclosure under the new standard.


item2.txt
The following management’s discussion and analysis is provided in addition to the accompanying consolidated condensed financial statements and notes to assist in understanding Applied’s results of operations and financial condition.
During the first three months of fiscal 2018, healthy investment in semiconductor manufacturing equipment and services continued to be a strong driver of revenue.
Overall semiconductor systems revenue increased as foundry, logic and NAND demand remained strong, and DRAM demand increased, reflecting increasing memory requirements in smartphones and servers.
The first quarter of fiscal 2018 included a one-time expense related to the enactment of recent U.S. tax legislation that reduced diluted earnings per share by $0.94.
The decrease in net sales from customers in Taiwan primarily reflected decreased investments in semiconductor equipment, partially offset by increased investments in display manufacturing equipment.
Gross margin during the three months ended January 28, 2018 and January 29, 2017 included $22 million and $17 million of share-based compensation expense, respectively.
Development cycles range from 12 to 36 months depending on whether the product is an enhancement of an existing product, which typically has a shorter development cycle, or a new product, which typically has a longer development cycle.
Most of Applied’s existing products resulted from internal development activities and innovations involving new technologies, materials and processes.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
To meet rapidly changing demand in the industries it serves, Applied must accurately forecast demand and effectively manage its resources and production capacity across its businesses, and may incur unexpected or additional costs to align its business operations.
During periods of increasing demand for its products, Applied must have sufficient manufacturing capacity and inventory to meet customer demand; effectively manage its supply chain; attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified employees; and continue to control costs.
During periods of decreasing demand, Applied must reduce costs and align its cost structure with prevailing market conditions; effectively manage its supply chain; and motivate and retain key employees.
If Applied does not effectively manage these challenges during periods of changing demand, its business performance and results of operations may be adversely impacted.
Uncertain global economic and business conditions, along with uncertainties in the financial markets, national debt and fiscal concerns in various regions, pose challenges to the industries in which Applied operates.
Economic and industry uncertainty may similarly affect suppliers, which could impair their ability to deliver parts and negatively affect Applied’s ability to manage operations and deliver its products.


