fls.txt



item1.txt
In the opinion of management, the unaudited interim consolidated condensed financial statements of Applied Materials, Inc. and its subsidiaries (Applied or the Company) included herein have been prepared on a basis consistent with the October 29, 2017 audited consolidated financial statements and include all material adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary to fairly present the information set forth therein.
In July 2015, the Financial Accounting Standard Board (FASB) issued authoritative guidance that requires inventory to be measured at the lower of cost and net realizable value instead of at lower of cost or market.
This guidance does not apply to inventory that is measured using last-in, first out (LIFO) or the retail inventory method but applies to all other inventory including those measured using first-in, first-out (FIFO) or the average cost method.
Applied adopted this authoritative guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 prospectively to measurement of inventory after the effective date.
In March 2016, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that simplifies several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including forfeitures, income tax, and classification on the statement of cash flows.
In August 2017, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that modifies the recognition and presentation of hedge accounting to better align an entity’s risk management strategies and financial reporting for hedging relationships.
In January 2017, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that clarifies the definition of a business to help companies evaluate whether acquisition or disposal transactions should be accounted for as asset groups or as businesses.
The authoritative guidance will be effective for Applied in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 on a prospective basis, with early adoption permitted.
In August 2016, a new authoritative guidance was issued which addresses classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments related to the statement of cash flows.
In February 2016, the FASB issued authoritative guidance for lease accounting, which requires lessees to recognize lease assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for certain lease arrangements that are classified as operating leases under the previous standard, and to provide for enhanced disclosures.
The authoritative guidance will be effective for Applied in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and should be applied using a modified retrospective approach.
In May 2014, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that requires revenue recognition to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services, and requires certain additional disclosures.
Entities will have the option of using either a full retrospective or modified retrospective approach to adopting the guidance.
In August 2015, the FASB issued an amendment to defer the effective date by one year and allow entities to early adopt no earlier than the original effective date.
With this amendment, the guidance will be effective for Applied in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, which is the Company’s planned adoption date.


item2.txt
The following management’s discussion and analysis is provided in addition to the accompanying consolidated condensed financial statements and notes to assist in understanding Applied’s results of operations and financial condition.
Overall semiconductor systems revenue increased as logic and NAND demand remained strong, and dynamic random-access memory (DRAM) demand increased, reflecting increasing memory requirements in smartphones and servers.
For the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018 compared to the same periods in the prior year, net sales increased primarily due to increased customer investments in all segments, with majority of the increases resulting from investments in semiconductor equipment.
The Semiconductor Systems segment’s relative share of total net sales continued to represent the largest contributor of net sales.
The changes in net sales in all regions in the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2018 compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily reflected changes in semiconductor equipment customer mix and increased spending in display manufacturing equipment and semiconductor spares and services.
The increase in net sales from customers in Korea, Japan, and Southeast Asia for the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2018 compared to the same periods in the prior year, primarily reflected increased investments in semiconductor equipment and changes in semiconductor equipment customer mix.
The increase in net sales from customers in China for the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2018 compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily reflected increased investments in semiconductor equipment and display manufacturing equipment.
The decrease in net sales from customers in Taiwan for the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2018 compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily reflected decreased investments in semiconductor equipment, partially offset by increased investments in display manufacturing equipment.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
The information set forth under “Legal Matters” in Note 12 in Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements is incorporated herein by reference.
To meet rapidly changing demand in the industries it serves, Applied must accurately forecast demand and effectively manage its resources and production capacity across its businesses, and may incur unexpected or additional costs to align its business operations.
During periods of increasing demand for its products, Applied must have sufficient manufacturing capacity and inventory to meet customer demand; effectively manage its supply chain; attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified employees; and continue to control costs.
During periods of decreasing demand, Applied must reduce costs and align its cost structure with prevailing market conditions; effectively manage its supply chain; and motivate and retain key employees.
If Applied does not effectively manage these challenges during periods of changing demand, its business performance and results of operations may be adversely impacted.
Uncertain global economic and business conditions, along with uncertainties and volatility in the financial markets, national debt and fiscal concerns in various regions, pose challenges to the industries in which Applied operates.


