fls.txt
Similarly, statements herein that describe TI’s business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
Revenue from products shipped into China was $1.7 billion and $1.6 billion in the first quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) and on the same basis as the audited financial statements included in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, except for the effects of adopting Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No.
Certain information and note disclosures normally included in annual consolidated financial statements have been omitted pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
The results for the three-month periods are not necessarily indicative of a full year’s results.
Lease assets represent our right to use underlying assets for the lease term, and lease liabilities represent our obligations to make lease payments over the lease term.
On the commencement date, leases are evaluated for classification, and assets and liabilities are recognized based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
We use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement in determining the present value of lease payments.
Our lease values include options to extend or not to terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise such options.
We use the two-class method for calculating EPS because the restricted stock units (RSUs) we grant are participating securities containing non-forfeitable rights to receive dividend equivalents.
Under the two-class method, a portion of net income is allocated to RSUs and excluded from the calculation of income allocated to common stock, as shown in the table below.
Potentially dilutive securities representing 9 million and 5 million shares of common stock that were outstanding during the first quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively, were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per common share during these periods because their effect would have been anti-dilutive.
In connection with the issuance of long-term debt, we may use financial derivatives such as treasury-rate lock agreements that are recognized in AOCI and amortized over the life of the related debt.
The fair values of our derivative financial instruments were not material as of March 31, 2019.


item2.txt
To strengthen this advantage, we are planning our next phase of 300-millimeter capacity expansion as 300-millimeter wafers will continue to support the majority of our Analog growth.
Customers often begin their initial product selection process and design-in journey on our website, and the breadth of our portfolio attracts more customers to our website than any of our competitors’ websites.
Some of our products generate revenue for decades, which strengthens the return on our investments.
Our strategic focus, and where we invest the majority of our resources, is on Analog and Embedded Processing, with a particular emphasis on designing and selling those products into the industrial and automotive markets, which we believe represent the best growth opportunities.
This business model is the foundation of our capital management strategy, which is based on our belief that free cash flow growth, especially on a per-share basis, is important for maximizing shareholder value over the long term.
The combined effect of these sustainable competitive advantages is that over time we have gained market share in Analog and Embedded Processing and have grown free cash flow.
Our business model puts us in a unique class of companies with the ability to grow, generate cash and return that cash to shareholders.
Our cash flow from operations of $7.2 billion for the trailing 12 months again underscored the strength of our business model.
Free cash flow for the trailing 12 months was $6.0 billion and represents 38.4% of revenue.
This reflects the quality of our product portfolio, as well as the efficiency of our manufacturing strategy, including the benefit of 300-millimeter Analog production.
For an explanation of free cash flow and the term “annual operating tax rate,” see the Non-GAAP financial information section.
Revenue of $3.59 billion decreased $195 million, or 5%, due to lower revenue from Embedded Processing and Analog.
Operating profit was $1.38 billion, or 38.4% of revenue, compared with $1.55 billion, or 40.9% of revenue.
Interest and debt expense of $38 million increased $15 million due to the issuance of additional long-term debt.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The following table contains information regarding our purchases of our common stock during the quarter.
All open-market purchases during the quarter were made under the authorization from our board of directors to purchase up to $6.0 billion of additional shares of TI common stock announced September 21, 2017.


