item1.txt
In the opinion of management, these financial statements
Revenue is disaggregated into product sales and contract
contracts with third parties.
a period of time using costs incurred as the measurement of progress towards completion.
a customer but have not completed our performance obligation.
A contract liability
the performance obligation by transferring goods or services.
and contract research and development contracts are satisfied in one year or less.
Early adoption is permitted for the removed
disclosures and delayed adoption is permitted until fiscal 2021 for the new disclosures.
We adopted ASU 2018-13 early, effective the quarter ended September 30, 2018.
the new disclosures on a prospective basis.
The adoption did not have a significant
Early adoption is permitted,
and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows.
expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
at amortized cost basis to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected.
We do not expect adoption of the
at the earliest comparative period presented in its financial statements.
We expect
period.
as available-for-sale securities and carried at estimated fair value.
including money market funds, to be cash equivalents.
prescribe required disclosures about fair-value measurements.
Generally accepted
a valuation hierarchy for disclosure of fair value measurements.
to the fair value measurement.
Because we believe it is more likely than not we will
Stock-based compensation expenses were due to the automatic issuance
We calculate the share-based compensation expense
The increase in stock-based
of additional repurchases.
We did not repurchase any
Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of
general, and administrative expense.
The increase in research and development
expense was due to an increase in new product development activities.
to a 57% decrease in contract research and development revenue.
in selling, general, and administrative expense.
The increase in research and
development expense was due to an increase in new product development activities.
period.
We currently believe
from maturities and sales of marketable securities.
the period covered by this Report.
disclosure.
Based on such evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
At this time we are not aware of any material pending


