item1.txt
Revenue is disaggregated into product sales and contract
Shipping charges billed to customers are included
in product sales and the related shipping costs are included in cost of sales.
the sale of custom products or research and development contracts with third parties.
a period of time using costs incurred as the measurement of progress towards completion.
through the completion of our performance obligation.
A contract asset is recognized
a customer but have not completed our performance obligation.
A contract liability
the performance obligation by transferring goods or services.
and contract research and development contracts are satisfied in one year or less.
performance obligations.
lease liabilities on the balance sheet of lessees.
our only lease is the lease for our facility.
We recognized $298,983 of leased
liabilities a right-of-use asset of $261,644 as of April 1, 2019.
The leased liabilities
and right-of-use asset exclude non-lease components.
period.
as available-for-sale securities and carried at estimated fair value.
including money market funds, to be cash equivalents.
Gains and losses on marketable
Marketable
prescribe required disclosures about fair-value measurements.
sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability.
Fair value is a market-based measurement
in pricing an asset or liability.
a valuation hierarchy for disclosure of fair value measurements.
to the fair value measurement.
quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019.
a non-cancellable lease through December 31, 2020.
Our lease does not provide
value of lease payments.
Lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis
Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of
or estimated by us in the forward-looking statements.
compared to $4,333,847 for the prior-year quarter.
The decrease in comprehensive
the prior-year quarter.
The increased unrealized gain was due to strong bond market
period was due to decreased purchase volumes by existing customers.
The decrease
period.
The increase was due to an unrealized gain from marketable securities
partially offset by a decrease in net income.
The unrealized gain was due to strong
months of fiscal 2020 was due to $9,692,020 of cash dividends paid to shareholders.
the period covered by this Report.
At this time we are not aware of any material pending


