fls.txt
or estimated by us in the forward-looking statements.
We have attempted to identify,


item1.txt
The adoption did not have a significant impact on our financial
those fiscal years, which will be fiscal 2019 for us.
prior financial statements presented.
Based on an evaluation, we do not expect
to change the manner or timing of recognizing revenue.
We have evaluated each
of our revenue streams, product sales and contract research and development.
We recognize contract
We are currently evaluating the impact of new disclosure requirements
period.
Net income per diluted share amounts assume exercise of all stock options.
common stock.
greater than one year are classified as long-term.
The fair value of our marketable
We calculate the share-based compensation expense
The increase in stock-based
The tax years 1999 and 2013 through
required disclosures about fair-value measurements.
Generally accepted accounting
an asset or liability.
Generally accepted accounting principles utilize a valuation
to the fair value measurement.
securities, which are classified as available-for-sale.
We do not have any financial
These statements are subject to the safe harbor provisions
Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of
or estimated by us in the forward-looking statements.
quarter was primarily due to decreased purchases by existing customers.
The increase
in research and development expense.
The decrease in selling, general, and administrative
taxes for the quarter, compared to 32.3% in the prior-year quarter.
The decrease
increase was due to a 33% increase in contract research and development revenue.
in selling, general, and administrative expense.
The decrease in selling, general,
and administrative expense was primarily due to decreased sales commissions.
taxes for the first nine months of fiscal 2018, compared to 32.2% in the prior-year
period.
The decreased rate was due to a decrease in the Federal tax rate with
In addition to dividends paid in the first nine months of fiscal
quarterly dividend of $1.00 per share of common stock, or $4,842,010 based on
from maturities and sales of marketable securities.
significantly increasing risk.
approximately 85% of our total assets.
We have not used derivative financial instruments
the period covered by this Report.
This evaluation included consideration of the
Based on such evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
We expect the new law to significantly


