fls.txt
or estimated by us in the forward-looking statements.
We have attempted to identify,


item1.txt
In the opinion of management, these financial statements
products or services.
Revenue is disaggregated into product sales and contract
contracts with third parties.
We recognize any such commissions as selling, general,
Contracts have specifications unique to each
a period of time using costs incurred as the measurement of progress towards completion.
a customer but have not completed our performance obligation.
A contract liability
the performance obligation by transferring goods or services.
We had no material
and contract research and development contracts are satisfied in one year or less.
performance obligations.
those fiscal years, which will be fiscal 2020 for us.
and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows.
The amendment provides clarity on the measurement methodology
expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
period.
as available-for-sale securities and carried at estimated fair value.
including money market funds, to be cash equivalents.
Gains and losses on marketable
required disclosures about fair-value measurements.
Generally accepted accounting
or paid to transfer a liability.
Fair value is a market-based measurement that
an asset or liability.
Generally accepted accounting principles utilize a valuation
to the fair value measurement.
of the individual securities.
As a result, bonds with a total fair value of $51,558,274
These statements are subject to the safe harbor provisions
Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of
due to a 67% decrease in contract research and development revenue.
general, and administrative expense.
The increase in research and development
expense was due to increased new product development activities.
taxes for the quarter, compared to 32% in the prior-year quarter.
used in financing activities.
We currently believe our working capital and cash
of fiscal 2019 was due to a $4,842,010 quarterly dividend paid to shareholders.
securities.
obligations, corporate obligations, and money market funds.
Available-for-sale
We have not used derivative financial instruments
the period covered by this Report.
This evaluation included consideration of the
Based on such evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
control activities within them.
These included the development of new policies
At this time we are not aware of any material pending


