fls.txt
or estimated by us in the forward-looking statements.
We have attempted to identify,


item1.txt
In the opinion of management, these financial statements
products or services.
Revenue is disaggregated into product sales and contract
in product sales and the related shipping costs are included in cost of sales.
the sale of custom products or research and development contracts with third parties.
Contracts have specifications unique to each
a period of time using costs incurred as the measurement of progress towards completion.
through the completion of our performance obligation.
A contract asset is recognized
a customer but have not completed our performance obligation.
A contract liability
the performance obligation by transferring goods or services.
and contract research and development contracts are satisfied in one year or less.
performance obligations.
lease liabilities on the balance sheet of lessees.
Currently our only lease is the lease for our facility.
of leased liabilities and a right-of-use asset of $261,644 as of April 1, 2019.
The leased liabilities and right-of-use asset exclude non-lease components.
at amortized cost basis to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected.
period.
as available-for-sale securities and carried at estimated fair value.
including money market funds, to be cash equivalents.
Gains and losses on marketable
prescribe required disclosures about fair-value measurements.
Generally accepted
sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability.
Fair value is a market-based measurement
in pricing an asset or liability.
Generally accepted accounting principles utilize
a valuation hierarchy for disclosure of fair value measurements.
to the fair value measurement.
a non-cancellable lease through December 31, 2020.
Our lease does not provide
value of lease payments.
Lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis
These statements are subject to the safe harbor provisions
Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of
or estimated by us in the forward-looking statements.
quarter was primarily due to decreased purchases by existing customers.
The decrease
compared to $3,838,022 for the prior-year quarter.
by a decrease in net income.
The unrealized gain was due to strong bond market
We currently believe our working capital and cash
the period covered by this Report.
This evaluation included consideration of the
Based on such evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
At this time we are not aware of any material pending


