fls.txt
The Company evaluated all positive and negative evidence in concluding it was appropriate to release the majority of the valuation allowance against U.S. net deferred tax assets during fiscal year 2018.


item1.txt
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to sell its semiconductor cryogenics business to Edwards Vacuum LLC (a member of the Atlas Copco Group), (the “Disposition”).
The discussion in the notes to these Consolidated Financial Statements, unless otherwise noted, relate solely to the Company's continuing operations.
Please refer to Note 3, “Discontinued Operations” for further information.
The accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2018 was derived from the audited annual consolidated financial statements as of the period then ended.
The targeted changes to the lessor accounting are not applicable to the Company because we are not in the industry to be targeted by the guidance.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this ASU.
The ASU does not amend the interim disclosure requirements of ASC 715-20.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this ASU.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), an amendment of the FASB ASC.
For finance leases, interest on a lease liability should be recognized separately from the amortization of the right-of-use asset, while for operating leases, total lease costs are recorded on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Entities should determine at the inception of the arrangement whether a contract represents a lease or contains a lease which is defined as a right to control the use of identified property for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
In May 2014, the FASB issued new accounting guidance for reporting revenue recognition, ASC 606 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (“ASC 606”).
The guidance provides for the recognition of revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.


item2.txt
Item 2.
·    Overview.
In April 2018, we acquired BioSpeciMan Corporation, or BioSpeciMan, a Canadian provider of storage services for biological sample materials.
Please refer to Note 5, “Acquisitions” in the Notes to the unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 "Consolidated Financial Statements" of this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q for further information on these transactions.
Gross margin was 40.6% for the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to 39.7% for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year, an increase of $18.1 million.
Operating expenses were $66.8 million during the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to $52.1 million during the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year, an increase of $14.8 million.
Operating income was $13.7 million during the second quarter of fiscal year 2019 as compared to $10.3 million for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
Loss from continuing operations was $2.8 million for the second quarter of fiscal year 2019, which includes a $9.1 million loss on extinguishment of debt.
This compares to income from continuing operations of $62.5 million for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year, which included the reversal of the valuation allowance reserve against U.S. deferred income tax assets of $58.0 million.


item3.txt
Our term loans bear variable interest rates which subject us to interest rate risk.


item4.txt



part2.txt



