fls.txt
The Company evaluates the profitability of each tax-paying component on a historic cumulative basis and a forward-looking basis in the course of performing this analysis.


item1.txt
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to sell its semiconductor cryogenics business to Edwards Vacuum LLC (a member of the Atlas Copco Group), (the “Disposition”).
The discussion in the notes to these Consolidated Financial Statements, unless otherwise noted, relate solely to the Company's continuing operations.
Please refer to Note 3, “Discontinued Operations” for further information.
The accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2018 was derived from the audited annual consolidated financial statements as of the period then ended.
of Operations.
The ASU does not amend the interim disclosure requirements of ASC 715-20.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this ASU.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), an amendment of the FASB ASC.
For finance leases, interest on a lease liability should be recognized separately from the amortization of the right-of-use asset, while for operating leases, total lease costs are recorded on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Entities should determine at the inception of the arrangement whether a contract represents a lease or contains a lease which is defined as a right to control the use of identified property for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
provisions of ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
In May 2014, the FASB issued new accounting guidance for reporting revenue recognition, ASC 606 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (“ASC 606”).
The guidance provides for the recognition of revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
A portion of the adjustment related to the acceleration of revenue within the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment results from the change in the revenue recognition rules.


item2.txt
Item 2.
·    Overview.
This section provides an analysis of our financial results for the three months ended December 31, 2018 compared to the three months ended December 31, 2017.
Any additional precautionary statements made in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10‑K should be read as being applicable to all related forward-looking statements whenever they appear in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q.
In April 2018, we acquired BioSpeciMan Corporation, or BioSpeciMan, a Canadian provider of storage services for biological sample materials.
Please refer to Note 5, “Acquisitions” in the Notes to the unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 "Consolidated Financial Statements" of this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q for further information on these transactions.
Results of Operations- Revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2018 increased to $179.4 million, or by 26%, as compared to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
Gross margin was 40.2% for the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to 38.1% for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year, which resulted in an increase in gross profit of $17.8 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 as compared to the corresponding period of the fiscal year 2018.
Operating income was $5.3 million during the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 as compared to $4.9 million for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.


item3.txt
Our term loan bears variable interest rates which subjects us to interest rate risk.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1A.


