fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2017 was derived from the audited annual consolidated financial statements as of the period then ended.
The Company enters into foreign exchange contracts to reduce its exposure to currency fluctuations.
The forward contract arrangements that the Company enters into typically mature in three months or less.
These transactions do not qualify for hedge accounting.
Foreign exchange contract assets and liabilities are measured and reported at fair value based on observable market inputs and classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy due to a lack of an active market for these contracts.
In March 2016, the FASB issued an amendment to the accounting guidance to simplify accounting for share-based payment awards issued to employees.
Additionally, the entity can make an accounting policy election to either estimate the number of awards that are expected to vest, consistent with the current accounting guidance, or account for forfeitures as they occur.
In March 2016, the FASB issued an amendment to the accounting guidance to simplify accounting for embedded derivatives.
An entity performing the assessment in accordance with this guidance is required to assess the embedded call (put) options solely in accordance with the four-step decision process set forth in the guidance.
In February 2016, the FASB issued new accounting guidance for reporting lease transactions.
For finance leases, interest on a lease liability should be recognized separately from the amortization of the right-of-use asset, while for operating leases, total lease costs are recorded on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
For leases with a term of twelve months or less, a lessee is permitted to make an accounting policy election by class of underlying assets to forgo a recognition of right-of-use assets and corresponding lease liabilities and record a lease expense on a straight-line basis.


item2.txt
Item 2.
·    Overview.
This section provides an analysis of our financial results for the three months ended December 31, 2017 compared to the three months ended December 31, 2016.
anticipated or unanticipated events.
Please refer to Note 4, “Acquisitions” in the Notes to the unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 "Consolidated Financial Statements" of this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q for further information on this transaction.
In fiscal year 2017, we launched BioStudies, a bioinformatics sample intelligence software platform that enables customers to manage their global samples.
Results of Operations- Revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2017 increased to $189.3 million, or by 18%, as compared to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
Gross margin was 39.7% for the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 as compared to 35.6% for the first quarter of fiscal year 2017, which resulted in an increase in gross profit of $18.3 million.
Operating expenses were $54.4 million during the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 as compared to $43.8 million during the first quarter of fiscal year 2017, an increase of $10.6 million.
The increase of $2.6 million was primarily attributable to the increase in operating income of $7.7 million, as noted above, partically offset by the impact of non-operating expenses which reduced net income by $5.3 million compared to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
The increase in cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities of $127.6 million was primarily attributable to cash inflows of $197.6 million related to proceeds from the term loan and cash inflows of $3.2 million generated from our operating activities, partially offset by cash outflows related to acquisition payments of $65.1 million, dividend payments of $7.1 million made to our shareholders during the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, as well as capital expenditures of $2.7 million.
Our unaudited consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, or GAAP.


item3.txt
Our cash and cash equivalents consist principally of money market securities that are short-term in nature.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1A.


