fls.txt



item1.txt
All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Changes in estimates are recorded in the period in which they occur and become known.
Net foreign currency transaction and remeasurement losses totaled $0.6 million and $0.7 million, respectively, during the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, and $3.1 million and $1.6 million, respectively, during the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017.
The Company enters into foreign exchange contracts to reduce its exposure to currency fluctuations.
The forward contract arrangements that the Company enters into, typically mature in three months or less.
These transactions do not qualify for hedge accounting.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
The Company expects to adopt the guidance during the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 and is evaluating the effect that ASU 2018-02 will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018 and should be adopted via a modified retrospective approach with certain optional practical expedients that entities may elect to apply.
The new guidance introduces a new "expected loss" impairment model that applies to most financial assets measured at amortized cost and certain other instruments, including trade and other receivables, loans, held-to-maturity debt securities and other financial assets.
In May 2014, the FASB issued new accounting guidance for reporting revenue recognition, ASC 606 Revenue from Contracts with Customer (“ASC 606”).
The Company will adopt this standard effective October 1, 2018, using the modified retrospective method and will only apply this method to contracts that are not completed as of the effective date and all new contracts initiated on or after the effective date.
The implementation team is also responsible for evaluating and designing the necessary changes to the Company’s business processes, policies, systems and controls to support recognition and disclosure under the new guidance.
The Company has established a project plan and has completed its initial contract assessments.
Based on the procedures performed to date, the Company expects changes to the consolidated balance sheet related to accounts receivable, contract assets, and contract liabilities, as well as, significant changes to the Company’s disclosures, to comply with the new disclosure requirements under ASC 606.
For further information with regard to the Company’s Significant Accounting Policies, please refer to Note 2 "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" to the Company’s consolidated financial statements included in the 2017 Annual Report on Form 10‑K.


item2.txt
Item 2.
·    Overview.
·    Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates.
anticipated or unanticipated events.
In April 2018, we acquired BioSpeciMan Corporation, or BioSpeciMan, a Canadian provider of storage services for biological sample materials.
Please refer to Note 4, “Acquisitions” in the Notes to the unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 "Consolidated Financial Statements" of this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q for further information on these transactions.
In fiscal year 2017, we launched BioStudies, a bioinformatics sample intelligence software platform that enables customers to manage their global samples.
Results of Operations- Revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased to $223.5 million, or by 23%, as compared to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
Gross margin was 39.9% for the third quarter of fiscal year 2018 as compared to 39.4% for the third quarter of fiscal year 2017, which resulted in an increase in gross profit of $17.7 million.
Operating expenses were $62.5 million during the third quarter of fiscal year 2018 as compared to $52.8 million during the third quarter of fiscal year 2017, an increase of $9.7 million.
Net income was $22.6 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to $17.4 million for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
The increase of $5.3 million was primarily attributable to the increase in operating income of $7.9 million, partially offset by an increase in net non-operating expenses of $3.0 million compared to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year, primarily related to interest expense on the term loan and lower income from equity method investments of $1.2 million.


item3.txt
Our term loan bears variable interest rates which subjects us to interest rate risk.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1A.


