These accounting principles were applied on a basis consistent with those of the audited Consolidated Financial Statements contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) on March 1, 2019 (the “2018 Form 10-K”).
We elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance within the new standard, which among other things, allowed us to not reassess existing contracts to determine if they contain a lease and to carry forward their historical lease classification upon transition.
In addition, we will not apply the guidance of ASC 842 to leases with an initial term of 12 months or less as allowed by the standard.
Adoption of the new standard resulted in the recording of right-of-use assets and lease payment obligations for our real estate office leases of $387.6 million and $417.8 million, respectively, as of January 1, 2019.
As of March 31, 2019, $56.4 million of the lease liability was included in other accrued expenses on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
ASU 2016-13 requires companies to measure credit losses utilizing a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires a consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates.
A lease is identified when a contract allows us the right to control an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
Our operating leases are included on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as operating lease assets and operating lease liabilities.Our revenues increased $715.3 million, or 169.5%, primarily due to our acquisitions, which included DST Systems, Inc. (“DST”) and CACEIS North America (“CACEIS”) in the second quarter of 2018 and Eze Software Group, LLC (“Eze”) and Intralinks Holdings, Inc. (“Intralinks”) in the fourth quarter of 2018, which, combined, contributed $703.4 million in revenues.
Software-enabled services revenues increased $677.2 million, or 229.7%, primarily due to the acquisitions, which added revenues of $668.7 million, as well as from a continued increase in demand for our fund administration services and services for advisory and wealth managers.
The increase in interest expense, net for 2019 as compared to 2018 relates primarily to increased borrowings in connection with our acquisitions of DST, Eze and Intralinks and, to a lesser extent, higher average interest rates.
We recorded a $7.1 million loss on extinguishment of debt in the three months ended March 31, 2019 in connection with the repayment of a portion of our Term Loans with the proceeds from the issuance of our Senior Notes.
Our principal cash requirements are to finance the costs of our operations pending the billing and collection of client receivables, to fund payments with respect to our indebtedness, to invest in research and development, to acquire complementary businesses or assets and to pay dividends on our common stock.
We expect our cash on hand, cash flows from operations, and cash available under our Credit Agreement to provide sufficient liquidity to fund our current obligations, projected working capital requirements and capital spending for at least the next twelve months.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, we paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.10 per share of common stock totaling $25.2 million in the aggregate.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, we paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.07 per share of common stock totaling $14.5 million in the aggregate.We derive service revenues from investment earnings related to cash balances maintained in bank accounts on which we are the agent for clients.