The terms "MTS," "we," "us," the "Company" or "our" in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, unless the context otherwise requires, refer to MTS Systems Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
We have prepared the interim unaudited consolidated financial statements included herein pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States (U.S.) Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 824), which requires lessees to recognize a right-of-use asset, representing the right to use the underlying asset for the lease term, and a lease liability on the balance sheet for all leases with terms greater than 12 months.
Lessees can forgo recognizing a right-of-use asset and lease liability with lease terms of 12 months or less on the balance sheet through accounting policy elections as long as the lease does not include options to purchase the underlying assets that are reasonably certain to be exercised.
2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740), Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory, which requires companies to account for the income tax effects of intercompany sales and transfers of assets other than inventory when the transfer occurs.
Current guidance requires companies to defer the income tax effects of intercompany transfers of assets until the asset has been sold to an outside party or otherwise recognized.
For sales that include installation services, warranty obligations generally extend for a period of 12 to 24 months from the date of either shipment or acceptance based on the contract terms.
Assets held under capital leases, consisting of machinery and equipment, are recorded at the present value of minimum lease payments and are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated life of the asset or the lease term.
Carrying amounts of the financial assets and liabilities are equal to the fair value.
Carrying amount of the financial asset is equal to the fair value.Our testing hardware and software solutions help customers accelerate and improve design, development and manufacturing processes and are used for determining the mechanical behavior of materials, products and structures.
We believe we can create value for our customers by helping to enhance the precision, improve the reliability and create superior safety for their products, while reducing the delivery time to market for their products.
See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion of the impact of the Tax Act.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017, we initiated a series of Test workforce reductions and facility closures intended to increase organizational effectiveness, gain manufacturing efficiencies and provide cost savings that can be reinvested in our growth initiatives.
As a result, in the three and six months ended March 31, 2018, we recorded $321 and $414 of pre-tax severance and related expense, respectively, and $25 and $187 of pre-tax facility closure costs, respectively.
Approximately 70% of our revenue has historically been derived from customers outside of the U.S. Our financial results are principally exposed to changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the Euro, the Japanese yen and the Chinese yuan.A hypothetical 10% appreciation or depreciation in foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar, assuming all other variables are held constant, would result in an increase or decrease in revenue of approximately $15,023 for the six months ended March 31, 2018.A discussion of our risk factors can be found in Item 1A of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017.