 ITEM 1.   



FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  





See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.  





Table of Contents 



SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY PLC  



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS  









The information as of June 29, 2018 was derived from the Company’s audited Consolidated Balance Sheet as of June 29, 2018.  



See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.  





Table of Contents 



SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY PLC  



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS  









See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.  





Table of Contents 



SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY PLC  



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME  









See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.  





Table of Contents 



SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY PLC  



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS  









See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.  





Table of Contents 



SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY PLC  



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY  



For the Three Months Ended September 28, 2018  









See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.  





Table of Contents 



SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY PLC  



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  







Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  



Organization  



Seagate Technology plc (the “Company”) is a leading provider of data storage technology and solutions. Its principal products are hard disk drives, commonly referred to as disk drives, hard drives or HDDs. In addition to HDDs, the Company produces a broad range of data storage products including solid state drives (“SSDs”) and storage subsystems.  



Hard disk drives are devices that store digitally encoded data on rapidly rotating disks with magnetic surfaces. Disk drives continue to be the primary medium of mass data storage due to their performance attributes, high quality and cost effectiveness. Complementing existing data center storage architecture, solid-state storage devices use integrated circuit assemblies as memory to store data, and most SSDs use NAND flash memory.  



The Company’s HDD products are designed for mission critical and nearline applications in enterprise servers and storage systems; edge compute applications, where its products are designed primarily for desktop and mobile computing; and edge non-compute applications, where its products are designed for a wide variety of end user devices such as portable external storage systems, surveillance systems, digital video recorders (“DVRs”), network-attached storage (“NAS”), and gaming consoles. The Company’s SSD products mainly include serial attached SCSI (“SAS”) and Non-Volatile Memory Express (“NVMe”) SSDs.  



The Company’s enterprise data solutions (formerly referred to as the “cloud systems and solutions”) portfolio includes modular original equipment manufacturers (“OEM”) storage systems and scale-out storage servers.  



Basis of Presentation and Consolidation  



The Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and all its wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries, after elimination of intercompany transactions and balances.  



The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. The methods, estimates and judgments the Company uses in applying its most critical accounting policies have a significant impact on the results the Company reports in its condensed consolidated financial statements. The condensed consolidated financial statements reflect, in the opinion of management, all material adjustments necessary to present fairly the condensed consolidated financial position, results of operations, comprehensive income, cash flows and shareholders’ equity for the periods presented. Such adjustments are of a normal and recurring nature.  



The Company’s consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended June 29, 2018, are included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on August 3, 2018. The Company believes that the disclosures included in the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, when read in conjunction with its consolidated financial statements as of June 29, 2018, and the notes thereto, are adequate to make the information presented not misleading.  



The results of operations for the three months ended September 28, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations to be expected for any subsequent interim period or for the Company’s fiscal year ending June 28, 2019. The Company operates and reports financial results on a fiscal year of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the Friday closest to June 30. Both the three months ended September 28, 2018 and the three months ended September 29, 2017 consisted of 13 weeks. Fiscal year 2019, which ends on June 28, 2019, and fiscal year 2018, which ended on June 29, 2018, are both comprised of 52 weeks. The fiscal quarters ended September 28, 2018, June 29, 2018, and September 29, 2017, are also referred to herein as the “September 2018 quarter ”, the “June 2018 quarter” and the “September 2017 quarter”, respectively.  



Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  



Except for the change in the Company’s revenue recognition policy described below, there have been no material changes to the Company’s significant accounting policies disclosed in Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” contained in Part II, Item 8 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 29, 2018, as filed with the SEC on August 3, 2018.  





Table of Contents 



Revenue Recognition  





Revenue from sales of products is generally recognized upon transfer of control to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for those products, net of sales taxes. This typically occurs upon shipment from the Company. When applicable, the Company includes shipping charges billed to customers in Revenue and includes the related shipping costs in Cost of revenue on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.  



The Company records estimated variable consideration at the time of revenue recognition as a reduction to net revenue. Variable consideration generally consists of sales incentive programs, such as price protection and volume incentives aimed at increasing customer demand. For OEM sales, rebates are typically established by estimating the most likely amount of consideration expected to be received based on an OEM customer’s volume of purchases from Seagate or other agreed upon rebate programs. For the distribution and retailing channel, these programs typically involve estimating the most likely amount of rebates related to a customer’s level of sales, order size, advertising or point of sale activity as well as the expected value of price protection adjustments based on historical analysis and forecasted pricing environment. Marketing development program costs are accrued and recorded as a reduction to revenue at the same time that the related revenue is recognized.  



Practical Expedient and Exemptions  



The Company elected a practical expedient to expense sales commissions when the commissions are incurred because the amortization period would have been one year or less. These costs are recorded as Marketing and administrative on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.  



Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements  



In February 2016 and July 2018, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standard Update (“ASU”) 2016-02 (ASC Topic 842), Leases ASU 2018-10, Codification Improvements to Topic 842, and Leases, ASU 2018-11, Leases (ASC Topic 842), Target improvements, respectively. These ASUs amend a number of aspects of lease accounting, including requiring lessees to recognize operating leases with a term greater than one year on their balance sheet as a right-of-use asset and corresponding lease liability, measured at the present value of the lease payments. The Company plans to adopt this guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020. The Company is in the process of assessing the impact of these ASUs on its condensed consolidated financial statements.  







In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-15 (ASC Subtopic 350-40), Intangibles - Goodwill and Other - Internal-Use Software - Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That is a Service Contract. This ASU aligns the accounting for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the accounting for implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software. The Company is required to adopt the guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is in the process of assessing the impact of this ASU on its condensed consolidated financial statements.  





Table of Contents 



Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements  



In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09 (ASC Topic 606), Revenue from Contracts with Customers, and FASB also issued certain interpretive clarifications on this new guidance which outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and supersedes the revenue recognition guidance under ASC 605. It also requires entities to disclose both quantitative and qualitative information that enable financial statements users to understand the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. This ASU became effective and was adopted by the Company in the September 2018 quarter retrospectively with a cumulative adjustment to accumulated deficit at the date of adoption (“modified retrospective transition approach”). The Company has completed the adoption and implemented policies, processes and controls to support the new standard’s measurement and disclosure requirements.  







The impact of applying the new accounting standard on the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements for the September 2018 quarter was not material.  











Table of Contents 





Balance Sheet Information  



Available-for-sale Debt Securities  







As of September 28, 2018, the Company’s Other current assets included $3 million in restricted cash and investments held as collateral at banks for various performance obligations.  



As of September 28, 2018, the Company had no material available-for-sale debt securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for a period greater than 12 months. The Company determined no available-for-sale debt securities were other-than-temporarily impaired as of September 28, 2018.  











As of June 29, 2018, the Company’s Other current assets included $4 million in restricted cash and investments held as collateral at banks for various performance obligations.  



As of June 29, 2018, the Company had no material available-for-sale securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for a period greater than 12 months. The Company determined no available-for-sale securities were other-than-temporarily impaired as of June 29, 2018.  





Table of Contents 



Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash  







Inventories  







Property, Equipment and Leasehold Improvements, net  







Investment in Debt Security  



As of September 28, 2018 and June 29, 2018, the Company had approximately $1.3 billion investment in non-convertible preferred stock of Toshiba Memory Corporation (“TMC”, formerly known as “K.K. Pangea”). The investment, with a contractual maturity of six years starting from May 31, 2018, is accounted for as a held-to-maturity debt security, carried at cost and adjusted for amortization of transaction costs into interest income. Additionally, the debt security has a contractual payment-in-kind (“PIK”) income which will be paid in cash upon redemption of the investment. PIK income computed at the contractual rate is accrued into Interest income in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations and added to the carrying value of the Investment in debt security on its Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. For the three months ended September 28, 2018, the PIK income earned was $16 million. No impairment was identified as of September 28, 2018 and June 29, 2018. Please refer to Note 8 - Fair Value for more details.  



Accrued Expenses  









Table of Contents 



Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) (“AOCI”)  









Debt  



Short-Term Borrowings  



The credit agreement entered into by the Company and its subsidiary Seagate HDD Cayman on January 18, 2011 and subsequently amended (the “Revolving Credit Facility”) provides the Company with a $700 million senior secured revolving credit facility. The term of the Revolving Credit Facility is through January 15, 2020. The loans made under the Revolving Credit Facility will bear interest at a rate of LIBOR plus a variable margin that will be determined based on the corporate credit rating of the Company. The Company and certain of its material subsidiaries fully and unconditionally guarantee the Revolving Credit Facility. The Revolving Credit Facility is available for cash borrowings, subject to compliance with certain covenants and other customary conditions to borrowing, and for the issuance of letters of credit up to a sub-limit of $75 million.  





As of September 28, 2018, no borrowings had been drawn or letters of credit utilized under the Revolving Credit Facility.  



Long-Term Debt  



$800 million Aggregate Principal Amount of 3.75% Senior Notes due November 2018 (the “2018 Notes”). The interest on the 2018 Notes is payable semi-annually on May 15 and November 15 of each year. The issuer under the 2018 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2018 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by the Company. During the September 2017 quarter, the Company repurchased $22 million aggregate principal amount of the 2018 Notes for cash at a premium to their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest. The Company recorded an immaterial loss on the repurchase during the three months ended September 29, 2017, which is included in Other, net on the Compnay’s Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. There were no repurchases during the three months ended September 28, 2018. The remainder of the 2018 Notes were classified as Current portion of long-term debt on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at September 28, 2018 and June 29, 2018.  



$750 million Aggregate Principal Amount of 4.25% Senior Notes due March 2022 (the “2022 Notes”). The interest on the 2022 Notes is payable semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 of each year. The issuer under the 2022 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2022 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by the Company.  





Table of Contents 



$1 billion Aggregate Principal Amount of 4.75% Senior Notes due June 2023 (the “2023 Notes”). The interest on the 2023 Notes is payable semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 of each year. The issuer under the 2023 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2023 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by the Company.  



$500 million Aggregate Principal Amount of 4.875% Senior Notes due March 2024 (the “2024 Notes”). The interest on the 2024 Notes is payable semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 of each year. The issuer under the 2024 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2024 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by the Company.  



$1 billion Aggregate Principal Amount of 4.75% Senior Notes due January 2025 (the “2025 Notes”). The interest on the 2025 Notes is payable semi-annually on January 1 and July 1 of each year. The issuer under the 2025 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2025 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by the Company.  



$700 million Aggregate Principal Amount of 4.875% Senior Notes due June 2027 (the “2027 Notes”). The interest on the Notes is payable semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 of each year. The issuer under the 2027 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2027 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by the Company.  



$500 million Aggregate Principal Amount of 5.75% Senior Notes due December 2034 (the “2034 Notes”). The interest on the 2034 Notes is payable semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 of each year. The issuer under the 2034 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2034 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by the Company.  









Income Taxes  



The Company’s income tax provision of $18 million in the three months ended September 28, 2018 included approximately $1 million of net discrete tax expense.  



The Company’s income tax provision recorded for the three months ended September 28, 2018 differed from the provision from income taxes that would be derived by applying the Irish statutory rate of 25% to income before income taxes, primarily due to the net effect of (i) tax benefits related to non-U.S. earnings generated in jurisdictions that are subject to tax incentive programs and are considered indefinitely reinvested outside of Ireland and (ii) a decrease in valuation allowance for certain deferred tax assets.  



During the three months ended September 28, 2018, the Company’s unrecognized tax benefits excluding interest and penalties increased by approximately $2 million to $62 million. The unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would impact the effective tax rate were $62 million at September 28, 2018, subject to certain future valuation allowance reversals. During the twelve months beginning September 29, 2018, the Company expects that its unrecognized tax benefits could be reduced by approximately $19 million, primarily as a result of the expiration of certain statutes of limitation.  



The Company’s income tax provision of $7 million in the three months ended September 29, 2017 included approximately $1 million of net discrete tax expense.  



The Company’s income tax provision recorded for the three months ended September 29, 2017 differed from the provision from income taxes that would be derived by applying the Irish statutory rate of 25% to income before income taxes, primarily due to the net effect of (i) tax benefits related to non-U.S. earnings generated in jurisdictions that are subject to tax holidays or tax incentive programs and are considered indefinitely reinvested outside of Ireland and (ii) a decrease in valuation allowance for certain deferred tax assets.  



On December 22, 2017, the Tax Act was enacted into law in the United States. The Tax Act significantly revises U.S. corporate income tax law by, among other things, lowering U.S. corporate income tax rates from 35% to 21%, implementing a territorial tax system, and imposing a one-time transition tax on deemed repatriated earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries.  





Table of Contents 



The U.S. tax law changes, including limitations on various business deductions such as executive compensation under Internal Revenue Code §162(m), will not impact the Company’s tax expense in the short-term due to the Company’s large net operating loss and tax credit carryovers and associated valuation allowance. The Tax Act’s new international rules, including Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (“GILTI”), Foreign Derived Intangible Income (“FDII”), and Base Erosion Anti-Avoidance Tax (“BEAT”) are effective beginning in fiscal year 2019. For fiscal year 2019, the Company has included these effects of the Tax Act in its financial statements and concluded the impact will not be material.  



Pursuant to SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin (“SAB”) 118 (regarding the application of ASC 740, Income Taxes (“ASC 740”) associated with the enactment of the Tax Act), the Company believes its accounting under ASC 740 for the provisions of the Tax Act is now complete.  





Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets  



Goodwill  







Other Intangible Assets  



Other intangible assets consist primarily of existing technology, customer relationships and trade names acquired in business combinations. Intangibles are amortized on a straight-line basis over the respective estimated useful lives of the assets. Amortization is charged to Operating expenses in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.  













Table of Contents 









Restructuring and Exit Costs  



For the three months ended September 28, 2018 and September 29, 2017, the Company recorded restructuring charges of approximately $23 million and $51 million, respectively, comprised primarily of charges related to workforce reduction costs and facilities and other exit costs associated with the restructuring of its workforce. The Company’s significant restructuring plans are described below. All restructuring charges are reported in Restructuring and other, net on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.  



December 2017 Plan — On December 8, 2017, the Company committed to a restructuring plan (the “December 2017 Plan”) to reduce its cost structure. The December 2017 Plan included reducing the Company’s global headcount by approximately 500 employees. The December 2017 Plan was substantially completed by the end of fiscal year 2018.  



July 2017 Plan — On July 25, 2017, the Company committed to a restructuring plan (the “July 2017 Plan”) to reduce its cost structure. The July 2017 Plan included reducing the Company’s global headcount by approximately 600 employees. The July 2017 Plan was substantially completed during fiscal year 2018.  



March 2017 Plan — On March 9, 2017, the Company committed to a restructuring plan (the “March 2017 Plan”) in connection with the continued consolidation of its global footprint. The Company closed its design center in Korea, resulting in the reduction of the Company’s headcount by approximately 300 employees. The March 2017 Plan was substantially completed by the end of fiscal year 2017.  



July 2016 Plan — On July 11, 2016, the Company committed to a restructuring plan (the “July 2016 Plan”) for continued consolidation of its global footprint across Asia, EMEA and the Americas. The July 2016 Plan included reducing worldwide headcount by approximately 6,500 employees. The July 2016 Plan was substantially completed during fiscal year 2018.  









Derivative Financial Instruments  



The Company is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate, interest rate, and to a lesser extent, equity market risks relating to its ongoing business operations. From time to time, the Company enters into cash flow hedges in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts in order to manage the foreign currency exchange rate risk on forecasted expenses and investments denominated in foreign currencies. The Company’s accounting policies for these instruments are based on whether the instruments are classified as designated or non-designated hedging instruments. The Company records all derivatives in its Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value. The changes in the fair value of highly effective designated cash flow hedges are recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss until the hedged item is recognized in earnings.  





Table of Contents 



 Derivatives that are not designated as hedging instruments or are not assessed to be highly effective are adjusted to fair value through earnings. The amount of net unrealized gain on cash flow hedges was $2 million as of September 28, 2018 and less than $1 million as of June 29, 2018.  



The Company de-designates its cash flow hedges when the forecasted hedged transactions affect earnings or it is probable the forecasted hedged transactions will not occur in the initially identified time period. At such time, the associated gains and losses deferred in Accumulated other comprehensive loss on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets are reclassified immediately into earnings and any subsequent changes in the fair value of such derivative instruments are immediately reflected in earnings. The Company recognized a net gain of $1 million in Other expense, net related to the loss of hedge designation on discontinued cash flow hedges during the three months ended September 28, 2018. The Company did not recognize any net gains or losses related to the loss of hedge designation on discontinued cash flow hedges during the three months ended September 29, 2017.  



Other derivatives not designated as hedging instruments consist of foreign currency forward exchange contracts that the Company uses to hedge the foreign currency exposure on the investment in debt security and forecasted expenditures denominated in currency other than the U.S. dollar. The Company recognizes gains and losses on these contracts, as well as the related costs in Other, net on its Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations along with foreign currency gains and losses on investment in debt security, and deferred gains of derivatives in Other current assets on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.  



The following tables show the total notional value of the Company’s outstanding foreign currency forward exchange contracts as of September 28, 2018 and June 29, 2018. All these foreign currency forward exchange contracts mature within 12 months.  







The Company is subject to equity market risks due to changes in the fair value of the notional investments selected by its employees as part of its Non-qualified Deferred Compensation Plan—the Seagate Deferred Compensation Plan (the “SDCP”). In fiscal year 2014, the Company entered into a Total Return Swap (“TRS”) in order to manage the equity market risks associated with the SDCP liabilities. The Company pays a floating rate, based on LIBOR plus an interest rate spread, on the notional amount of the TRS. The TRS is designed to substantially offset changes in the SDCP liability due to changes in the value of the investment options made by employees. As of September 28, 2018, the notional investments underlying the TRS amounted to $120 million. The contract term of the TRS is through January 2019 and is settled on a monthly basis, therefore limiting counterparty performance risk. The Company did not designate the TRS as a hedge. Rather, the Company records all changes in the fair value of the TRS to earnings to offset the market value changes of the SDCP liabilities.  





Table of Contents 















As of September 29, 2017, the Company had no outstanding foreign currency forward exchange contracts and the gross fair value of the TRS reflected in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet was immaterial.  









Table of Contents 





Fair Value  



Measurement of Fair Value  



Fair value is defined as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required to be recorded at fair value, the Company considers the principal or most advantageous market in which it would transact and it considers assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.  



Fair Value Hierarchy  





Level 1 — Quoted prices in active markets that are unadjusted and accessible at the measurement date for identical, unrestricted assets or liabilities;  



Level 2 — Quoted prices for identical assets and liabilities in markets that are inactive; quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets or financial instruments for which significant inputs are observable, either directly or indirectly; or  



Level 3 — Prices or valuations that require inputs that are both unobservable and significant to the fair value measurement.  



The Company considers an active market to be one in which transactions for the asset or liability occur with sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis, and views an inactive market as one in which there are few transactions for the asset or liability, the prices are not current, or price quotations vary substantially either over time or among market makers. Where appropriate the Company’s or the counterparty’s non-performance risk is considered in determining the fair values of liabilities and assets, respectively.  



Items Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis  









Table of Contents 











The Company classifies items in Level 1 if the financial assets consist of securities for which quoted prices are available in an active market.  







Table of Contents 



 The Company uses a pricing service to assist in determining the fair value of all of its cash equivalents and short-term investments. For the cash equivalents and short-term investments in the Company’s portfolio, multiple pricing sources are generally available. The pricing service uses inputs from multiple industry standard data providers or other third party sources and various methodologies, such as weighting and models, to determine the appropriate price at the measurement date. The Company corroborates the prices obtained from the pricing service against other independent sources and, as of September 28, 2018, has not found it necessary to make any adjustments to the prices obtained. The Company’s derivative financial instruments are also classified within Level 2. The Company’s derivative financial instruments consist of foreign currency forward exchange contracts and the TRS. The Company recognizes derivative financial instruments in its condensed consolidated financial statements at fair value. The Company determines the fair value of these instruments by considering the estimated amount it would pay or receive to terminate these agreements at the reporting date.  



As of September 28, 2018 and June 29, 2018, the Company had no Level 3 assets or liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis.  



Items Measured at Fair Value on a Non-Recurring Basis  



From time to time, the Company enters into certain strategic investments for the promotion of business and strategic objectives. These strategic investments primarily include cost basis investments representing those where the Company does not have the ability to exercise significant influence as well as equity method investments representing those where the Company does have the ability to exercise significant influence but does not have control. These investments are included in Other assets, net in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, and are periodically analyzed to determine whether or not there are indicators of impairment.  





As of September 28, 2018 and June 29, 2018, the carrying value of the Company’s strategic investments were $107 million and $118 million, respectively. For the three months ended September 28, 2018 and September 29, 2017, the Company did not have any equity investments accounted for under the cost method that were other-than-temporarily impaired and did not record any impairment charges. There were no upward or downward adjustments on equity investments as a result of adoption of measurement alternative during the September 2018 quarter.  



As of September 28, 2018 and June 29, 2018, the Company had $26 million of held for sale land and building (collectively, the “property”) in Asia included in Other current assets on its Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. The respective property to be sold met the criteria to be classified as held for sale at the end of fiscal year 2017. During the September 2018 quarter, the Company accepted an offer to sell the property to a third party. The sale is expected to be completed by the end of fiscal year 2019, subject to government approval and customary closing conditions. No impairment was identified for the three months ended September 28, 2018 and September 29, 2017.  



Other Fair Value Disclosures  



The Company’s investment in a debt security, classified as held-to-maturity, represents shares of non-convertible preferred stock of TMC. This debt security has a maturity date of six years starting from May 31, 2018 and is classified as Investment in debt security on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. The debt security is recorded at amortized cost and its fair value approximated the carrying value at June 29, 2018. As of September 28, 2018, the fair value of this investment was $1,289 million with an unrealized gain of $30 million on the carrying value of $1,259 million. The fair value was determined utilizing Level 2 inputs such as discount rates and yield terms of similar types of securities issued by comparable companies.  





Table of Contents 









Table of Contents 





Equity  



Share Capital  



The Company’s authorized share capital is $13,500 and consists of 1,250,000,000 ordinary shares, par value $0.00001, of which 286,127,032 shares were outstanding as of September 28, 2018, and 100,000,000 preferred shares, par value $0.00001, of which none were issued or outstanding as of September 28, 2018.  



Ordinary shares – Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as and when declared by the Company’s board of directors (the “Board of Directors”). Upon any liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Company, after required payments are made to holders of preferred shares, any remaining assets of the Company will be distributed ratably to holders of the preferred and ordinary shares. Holders of shares are entitled to one vote per share on all matters upon which the ordinary shares are entitled to vote, including the election of directors.  



Preferred shares – The Company may issue preferred shares in one or more series, up to the authorized amount, without shareholder approval. The Board of Directors is authorized to establish from time to time the number of shares to be included in each series, and to fix the rights, preferences and privileges of the shares of each wholly unissued series and any of its qualifications, limitations or restrictions. The Board of Directors can also increase or decrease the number of shares of a series, but not below the number of shares of that series then outstanding, without any further vote or action by the shareholders.  



The Board of Directors may authorize the issuance of preferred shares with voting or conversion rights that could harm the voting power or other rights of the holders of the ordinary shares. The issuance of preferred shares, while providing flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could, among other things, have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of the Company and might harm the market price of its ordinary shares and the voting and other rights of the holders of ordinary shares.  



Repurchases of Equity Securities  



All repurchases are effected as redemptions in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association.  



As of September 28, 2018, $0.7 billion remained available for repurchase under the existing repurchase authorization limit.  









Revenue  









Revenue is attributed to countries based on bill from locations.    





Table of Contents 





Share-based Compensation  



The Company recorded approximately $18 million and $32 million of share-based compensation expense during the three months ended September 28, 2018 and September 29, 2017, respectively.  





Guarantees  



Indemnifications of Officers and Directors  



On May 4, 2009, Seagate Technology, an exempted company incorporated with limited liability under the laws of the Cayman Islands (“Seagate-Cayman”), then the parent company, entered into a new form of indemnification agreement (the “Revised Indemnification Agreement”) with its officers and directors of Seagate-Cayman and its subsidiaries (each, an “Indemnitee”). The Revised Indemnification Agreement provides indemnification in addition to any of Indemnitee’s indemnification rights under Seagate-Cayman’s Articles of Association, applicable law or otherwise, and indemnifies an Indemnitee for certain expenses (including attorneys’ fees), judgments, fines and settlement amounts actually and reasonably incurred by him or her in any action or proceeding, including any action by or in the right of Seagate-Cayman or any of its subsidiaries, arising out of his or her service as a director, officer, employee or agent of Seagate-Cayman or any of its subsidiaries or of any other entity to which he or she provides services at Seagate-Cayman’s request. However, an Indemnitee shall not be indemnified under the Revised Indemnification Agreement for (i) any fraud or dishonesty in the performance of Indemnitee’s duty to Seagate-Cayman or the applicable subsidiary of Seagate-Cayman or (ii) Indemnitee’s conscious, intentional or willful failure to act honestly, lawfully and in good faith with a view to the best interests of Seagate-Cayman or the applicable subsidiary of Seagate-Cayman. In addition, the Revised Indemnification Agreement provides that Seagate-Cayman will advance expenses incurred by an Indemnitee in connection with enforcement of the Revised Indemnification Agreement or with the investigation, settlement or appeal of any action or proceeding against him or her as to which he or she could be indemnified.  



On July 3, 2010, pursuant to a corporate reorganization, the common shareholders of Seagate-Cayman became ordinary shareholders of the Company and Seagate-Cayman became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, as described more fully in the Current Report on Form 8-K filed by the Company on July 6, 2010 (the “Redomestication”). On July 27, 2010, in connection with the Redomestication, the Company, as sole shareholder of Seagate-Cayman, approved a form of deed of indemnity (the “Deed of Indemnity”), which provides for the indemnification by Seagate-Cayman of any director, officer, employee or agent of the Company, Seagate-Cayman or any subsidiary of the Company (each, a “Deed Indemnitee”), in addition to any indemnification rights of a Deed Indemnitee under the Company’s Articles of Association, applicable law or otherwise, with a similar scope to the Revised Indemnification Agreement. Seagate-Cayman entered into Deeds of Indemnity with certain Deed Indemnitees effective as of July 3, 2010 and continues to enter into Deeds of Indemnity with additional Deed Indemnitees from time to time.  



The nature of these indemnification obligations prevents the Company from making a reasonable estimate of the maximum potential amount it could be required to pay on behalf of its officers and directors. Historically, the Company has not made any significant indemnification payments under such agreements and no amount has been accrued in the Company’s consolidated financial statements with respect to these indemnification obligations.  



Intellectual Property Indemnification Obligations  



The Company has entered into agreements with customers and suppliers that include limited intellectual property indemnification obligations that are customary in the industry. These guarantees generally require the Company to compensate the other party for certain damages and costs incurred as a result of third party intellectual property claims arising from these transactions. The nature of the intellectual property indemnification obligations prevents the Company from making a reasonable estimate of the maximum potential amount it could be required to pay to its customers and suppliers. Historically, the Company has not made any significant indemnification payments under such agreements and no amount has been accrued in the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements with respect to these indemnification obligations.  





Table of Contents 



Product Warranty  









Earnings Per Share  







The anti-dilutive shares related to employee equity award plans that were excluded from the computation of diluted net income per share were less than 1 million for the three months ended September 28, 2018, and approximately 2 million for the three months ended September 29, 2017.  





Legal, Environmental and Other Contingencies  



The Company assesses the probability of an unfavorable outcome of all its material litigation, claims, or assessments to determine whether a liability had been incurred and whether it is probable that one or more future events will occur confirming the fact of the loss. In the event that an unfavorable outcome is determined to be probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated, the Company establishes an accrual for the litigation, claim or assessment. In addition, in the event an unfavorable outcome is determined to be less than probable, but reasonably possible, the Company will disclose an estimate of the possible loss or range of such loss; however, when a reasonable estimate cannot be made, the Company will provide disclosure to that effect. Litigation is inherently uncertain and may result in adverse rulings or decisions. Additionally, the Company may enter into settlements or be subject to judgments that may, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on its results of operations. Accordingly, actual results could differ materially.  





Table of Contents 



Intellectual Property Litigation  



Convolve, Inc. (“Convolve”) and Massachusetts Institute of Technology (“MIT”) v. Seagate Technology LLC, et al. On July 13, 2000, Convolve and MIT filed suit against Compaq Computer Corporation and Seagate Technology LLC in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, alleging infringement of U.S. Patent No. 4,916,635 (the “‘635 patent”) and U.S. Patent No. 5,638,267 (the “‘267 patent”), misappropriation of trade secrets, breach of contract, and other claims. On January 16, 2002, Convolve filed an amended complaint, alleging defendants were infringing U.S. Patent No. 6,314,473 (the “‘473 patent”). The district court ruled in 2010 that the ‘267 patent was out of the case.  





Lambeth Magnetic Structures LLC v. Seagate Technology (US) Holdings, Inc., et al. On April 29, 2016, Lambeth Magnetic Structures LLC filed a complaint against Seagate Technology (US) Holdings, Inc. and Seagate Technology LLC in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania, alleging infringement of U.S. Patent No. 7,128,988, “Magnetic Material Structures, Devices and Methods.” The Company believes the claims asserted in the complaint are without merit and intends to vigorously defend this case. The court issued its claim construction ruling on October 18, 2017. No trial date has been set. While the possible range of loss for this matter remains uncertain, the Company estimates the amount of loss to be immaterial to the financial statements.  



Environmental Matters  



The Company’s operations are subject to U.S. and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. Some of the Company’s operations require environmental permits and controls to prevent and reduce air and water pollution, and these permits are subject to modification, renewal and revocation by issuing authorities.  



The Company has established environmental management systems and continually updates its environmental policies and standard operating procedures for its operations worldwide. The Company believes that its operations are in material compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits. The Company budgets for operating and capital costs on an ongoing basis to comply with environmental laws. If additional or more stringent requirements are imposed on the Company in the future, it could incur additional operating costs and capital expenditures.  



Some environmental laws, such as the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (as amended, the “Superfund” law) and its state equivalents, can impose liability for the cost of cleanup of contaminated sites upon any of the current or former site owners or operators or upon parties who sent waste to these sites, regardless of whether the owner or operator owned the site at the time of the release of hazardous substances or the lawfulness of the original disposal activity. The Company has been identified as a responsible or potentially responsible party at several sites. At each of these sites, the Company has an assigned portion of the financial liability based on the type and amount of hazardous substances disposed of by each party at the site and the number of financially viable parties. The Company has fulfilled its responsibilities at some of these sites and remains involved in only a few at this time.  



While the Company’s ultimate costs in connection with these sites is difficult to predict with complete accuracy, based on its current estimates of cleanup costs and its expected allocation of these costs, the Company does not expect costs in connection with these sites to be material.  





Table of Contents 





Other Matters  



The Company is involved in a number of other judicial, regulatory or administrative proceedings and investigations incidental to its business, and the Company may be involved in such proceedings and investigations arising in the normal course of its business in the future. Although occasional adverse decisions or settlements may occur, the Company believes that the final disposition of such matters will not have a material adverse effect on its financial position or results of operations.  





Subsequent Events  



Dividend Declared  



On November 2, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.63 per share, which will be payable on January 2, 2019 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on December 19, 2018.  



Share Repurchases  



On October 29, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of $2.3 billion of its outstanding ordinary shares.  





Table of Contents 



 ITEM 1.  



LEGAL PROCEEDINGS  



For a discussion of legal proceedings, see “Part I, Item 1. Financial Statements—Note 14. Legal, Environmental and Other Contingencies” of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.  



 ITEM 1A.  



RISK FACTORS  



There have been no material changes to the description of the risk factors associated with our business previously disclosed in Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 29, 2018. In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the risk factors discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K as they could materially affect our business, financial condition and future results.  



The Risk Factors are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results.  



