 ITEM 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  



We have exposure to market risks due to the volatility of interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, credit rating changes, equity and bond markets. A portion of these risks may be hedged, but fluctuations could impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.  



Interest Rate Risk. Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio. As of March 30, 2018, we had no available-for-sale securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for a period greater than 12 months. The Company determined no available-for-sale securities were other-than-temporarily impaired as of March 30, 2018. We currently do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio.  



We have fixed-rate debt obligations. We enter into these debt obligations to support general corporate purposes including capital expenditures and working capital needs.  



The table below presents principal amounts and related weighted-average interest rates by year of maturity for our investment portfolio and debt obligations as of March 30, 2018.  





Foreign Currency Exchange Risk. From time to time, we may enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage exposure related to certain foreign currency commitments and anticipated foreign currency denominated expenditures. Our policy prohibits us from entering into derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. At this time, we have not identified any material exposure associated with the potential changes related to the British vote to exit the European Union.  



We hedge portions of our foreign currency denominated balance sheet positions with foreign currency forward exchange contracts to reduce the risk that our earnings will be adversely affected by changes in currency exchange rates. The changes in fair value of these hedges are recognized in earnings in the same period as the gains and losses from the remeasurement of the assets and liabilities. These foreign currency forward exchange contracts are not designated as hedging instruments under ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging. We had no outstanding foreign currency forward exchange contracts as of March 30, 2018.  



We evaluate hedging effectiveness prospectively and retrospectively and record any ineffective portion of the hedging instruments in Cost of revenue on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. We did not have any material net gains (losses) recognized in Cost of revenue for cash flow hedges due to hedge ineffectiveness or discontinued cash flow hedges during the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018.  



Other Market Risks. We have exposure to counterparty credit downgrades in the form of credit risk related to our foreign currency forward exchange contracts and our fixed income portfolio. We monitor and limit our credit exposure for our foreign currency forward exchange contracts by performing ongoing credit evaluations. We also manage the notional amount of contracts entered into with any one counterparty, and we maintain limits on maximum tenor of contracts based on the credit rating of the financial institution. Additionally, the investment portfolio is diversified and structured to minimize credit risk. Changes in our corporate issuer credit ratings have minimal impact on our financial results, but downgrades may negatively impact our future transaction costs and our ability to execute transactions with various counterparties.  





We are subject to equity market risks due to changes in the fair value of the notional investments selected by our employees as part of our Seagate Deferred Compensation Plan (the “SDCP”). In fiscal year 2014, we entered into a Total Return Swap (“TRS”) in order to manage the equity market risks associated with the SDCP liabilities. We pay a floating rate, based on LIBOR plus an interest rate spread, on the notional amount of the TRS. The TRS is designed to substantially offset changes in the SDCP liability due to  



changes in the value of the investment options made by employees. See “Part I, Item 1. Financial Statements—Note 8. Derivative Financial Instruments” of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.  



 ITEM 3. DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIES  



None.  



