item1.txt
We recognized the cumulative effect of adopting ASC 606 as an increase to the 2018 opening balance of retained earnings in the amount of $0.8 million, with the impact primarily related to fixed-price contracts.
As part of this process, we review information including, but not limited to, any outstanding key contract matters, progress towards completion and the related program schedule, identified risks and opportunities and the related changes in estimates of revenue and costs.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019, the aggregate impact of adjustments in contract estimates increased our revenue by $3.2 million.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019, the amount of revenue that was included in the opening contract liabilities balance was $18.0 million.
The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued ASC 842, Leases, to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by requiring the recognition of right of use (ROU) assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet.
We are also required to recognize and measure leases existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented using a modified retrospective approach, with certain practical expedients available.
Our ROU asset is recognized as the lease liability, any initial indirect costs and any prepaid lease payments, less any lease incentives.
Our lease liabilities are recognized based on the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term at commencement date.
Our lease payments consist of amounts relating to the use of the underlying asset during the lease term, specifically fixed payments, payment to be made in optional periods when we are reasonably certain to exercise an option to extend the lease or not to exercise an option to terminate the lease and the amounts probable of being owned by us under residual 
Our variable lease payments are excluded in measuring ROU asset and lease liability because they do not depend on an index or a rate or are not in substance fixed payments.
Our leases typically do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at the commencement date in determining the present value of future payments.
For operating leases, after lease commencement, we measure our lease liability for each period at the present value of any remaining lease payments, discounted by using the rate determined at lease commencement.
In our condensed consolidated statement of income, we recognize a single operating lease expense calculated on a straight-line basis over the remaining lease term.
The amortization of the ROU asset increases each year as a result of the declining lease liability balance.
Variable lease payments are not recognized in the measurement of the lease liability - they are recognized in the period in which the related obligation has been incurred.
In each period, the lease liability will be increased to reflect the interest that is accrued on the related lease liability by using the appropriate discount rate, offset by a decrease in the lease liability resulting from the periodic lease payments.
Our transportation vehicles and equipment leases include a residual value guarantee, which is a guarantee made to the lessor that the value of the underlying asset returned to the lessor at the end of the lease will be at least a specific amount.
We sublease some of our real estate lease space, resulting in sublease income of $23 thousand as of the three months ended March 31, 2019.
We recognize payments related to short-term leases (less than one year) as profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the lease term and variable leases payments in the period in which the obligation for those payment is incurred.
As such, our short-term lease expense as of March 31, 2019 under ASC 842 was $1.4 million.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019, we incurred variable lease costs of $0.5 million.
Basic earnings per share has been computed by dividing net income available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during each period.
Depreciation and amortization expense related to property and equipment for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 was $6.3 million and $5.9 million, respectively.
The types of awards available under the Plan include, among others, stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units (RSUs).
Equity awards granted under the Plan are settled in shares of Class A common stock.
At the beginning of each year, the Plan provides that the number of shares available for issuance automatically increases by an amount equal to 1.5% of the total number of shares of Class A and Class B common stock outstanding on December 31st of the previous year.
Through March 31, 2019, the remaining aggregate number of shares of our common stock available for future grants under the Plan was 6,685,056.
Subject to the express provisions of the Plan, the committee has the Board of Directors’ authority to administer and interpret the Plan, including the discretion to determine the exercise price, vesting schedule, contractual life and the number of shares to be issued.
Stock Compensation Expense—For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, we recorded $1.3 million and $1.1 million of stock-based compensation expense.
No compensation expense of employees with stock awards, including stock-based compensation expense, was capitalized during the periods.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, we recorded $0.2 million and $1.1 million, respectively, to income tax benefit related to the exercise of stock options, vested cancellations and the vesting of restricted stock.
A stock option gives the holder the right, but not the obligation to purchase a certain number of shares at a predetermined price for a specific period of time.
We typically issue options that vest over three years in equal installments beginning on the first anniversary of the date of grant.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, we issued options that expire five years from the date of grant.
Fair Value Determination—We have used the Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing model to determine the fair value of our awards on the date of grant.
We will reconsider the use of the Black-Scholes-Merton model if additional information becomes available in the future that indicates another model would be more appropriate or if grants issued in future periods have characteristics that cannot be reasonably estimated under this model.
Stock Option Activity—The weighted-average fair value of options granted during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, as determined under the Black-Scholes-Merton valuation model, was $10.04 and $9.96, respectively.
Option grants that vested during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 had a combined fair value of $1.2 million and $0.7 million, respectively.
Unrecognized compensation expense related to non-vested awards was $7.3 million as of March 31, 2019, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2 years.
A restricted stock award is an issuance of shares that cannot be sold or transferred by the recipient until the vesting period lapses.
Restricted stock issued to members of our Board of Directors vest on the one year anniversary of the grant date.
The related compensation expense is recognized over the service period and is based on the grant date fair value of the stock.
The grant date fair value of the restricted stock is equal to the closing market price of our common stock on the date of grant.
Restricted Stock Activity— There was no restricted stock activity during the three months ended March 31, 2019.
Employees who are granted RSUs do not receive dividend payments during the vesting period.
Our employees have been granted performance-based RSUs and time-based RSUs. Performance-based RSUs result in the delivery of shares only if (a) performance criteria is met and (b) the employee remains employed, in good standing, through the date of the performance period.
The grant date fair value of the RSUs is equal to the closing market price of our common stock on the grant date less the present value of dividends expected to be awarded during the service period.
We recognize the grant date fair value of RSUs of shares we expect to issue as compensation expense ratably over the requisite service period.


item2.txt
The following table sets forth certain items from our condensed consolidated statements of income and the relative percentage that certain items of expenses and earnings bear to revenue, as well as the period-to-period change from March 31, 2018 to March 31, 2019.
The primary driver of our increase in revenues relates to revenue from new contract awards and growth on certain existing contracts, which were offset by contracts and tasks that ended and reduced scope of work on some contracts.
As a percentage of revenue, direct labor costs were 48% for both the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018.
As a percentage of revenues, other direct costs, which include subcontractors and third party equipment and materials used in the performance of our contracts, was 38% for the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to 37% for the same period in 2018.
We expect interest expense to increase for the remainder of 2019 due to increased borrowings under our credit facility to fund the acquisition of KGS.
Our funded backlog does not include the full value of our contracts because Congress often appropriates funds for a particular program or contract on a yearly or quarterly basis, even though the contract may call for performance over a much longer period of time.
Our primary liquidity needs relate to managing working capital, financing acquisitions, making cash dividend payments, purchasing property and equipment and investing in capital software.
Our primary sources of liquidity are cash from operating activities and borrowings under our revolving credit facility.
There were outstanding borrowings of $96.0 million under our revolving credit facility at March 31, 2019.
The maximum available borrowings under our revolving credit facility at March 31, 2019 were $396.3 million.
As of March 31, 2019, we were contingently liable under letters of credit totaling $7.7 million, which reduces our availability to borrow under our revolving credit facility.
Our operating cash flow is primarily affected by our ability to invoice and collect from our customers in a timely manner, our management of vendor payments and the overall profitability of our contracts.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, our net cash from (used in) operating activities was $47.3 million and $(18.0) million, respectively.
The increase in net cash flows from operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2019 when compared to the same period in 2018 was primarily due to the timing of receivables collection.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019, our net cash flow from financing activities was $78.1 million, which was primarily due to net borrowings under revolving credit facility and dividend payments.
The net increase in borrowings for the three months ended March 31, 2019 is due to funding requirements to acquire Kforce Government Solutions on April 1, 2019.
For the three months ended March 31, 2018, our net cash flow from financing activities were $27.9 million, which were primarily due to net borrowings under our revolving credit facility and exercise of stock options partially offset by dividend payments.
We believe the capital resources available to us from cash on hand, our remaining capacity under our revolving credit facility, and cash from our operations are adequate to fund our anticipated cash requirements for at least the next year.
We anticipate financing our internal and external growth through cash from operating activities, borrowings under our revolving credit facility or other debt and issuance of equity.
Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, amounts due from banks and short-term investments with maturity dates of three months or less at the date of purchase.
As of March 31, 2019, $7.7 million in letters of credit were issued but undrawn.
Our lease liabilities are recognized based on the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term at commencement date.
Our lease payments consist of amounts relating to the use of the underlying asset during the lease term, specifically fixed payments, payment to be made in optional periods when we are reasonably certain to exercise an option to extend the lease or not to exercise an option to terminate the lease and the amounts probable of being owned by us under residual guarantees.
Our leases typically do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at the commencement date in determining the present value of future payments.
In each period, the lease liability will be increased to reflect the interest that is accrued on the related lease liability by using the appropriate discount rate, offset by a decrease in the lease liability resulting from the periodic lease payments.
and purchases and issues of Level 3 assets and liabilities; (2) for investments in certain entities that calculate net asset value, an entity is required to disclose the timing of liquidation of an investee’s assets and the date that restrictions from redemption might lapse, only if the investee has communicated the timing to the entity or announced the timing publicly; and (3) it is clear that the measurement uncertainty disclosure is to communicate information about the uncertainty in measurement as of the reporting date.
Additionally, the ASU adds disclosure requirements for public entities about (1) the changes in unrealized gains and losses for the period included in other comprehensive income for recurring Level 3 fair value measurements held at the end of the reporting period, and (2) the range and weighted average of significant unobservable inputs used to develop Level 3 fair value measurements.
The amendments regarding changes in unrealized gains and losses, the range and weighted average of significant unobservable inputs used to develop Level 3 fair value measurements, and the narrative description of measurement uncertainty should be applied prospectively for only the most recent interim or annual period presented in the initial fiscal year of adoption.


item4.txt
As a result, our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that such disclosure controls and procedures will meet their objectives.
As of March 31, 2019, under the supervision and with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer (our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, respectively), management evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Rule 13a-15 of the Exchange Act. Based upon this evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level described above.


part2.txt
Item 1A.Risk Factors


