item1.txt
For the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, the aggregate impact of adjustments in contract estimates increased our revenue by $3.5 million and $4.3 million, respectively.
For the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, the aggregate impact of adjustments in contract estimates increased our revenue by $5.6 million and $5.8 million, respectively.
For the three months ended June 30, 2019, the amount of revenue that was included in the opening contract liabilities balance was $4.5 million.
For the six months ended June 30, 2019, the amount of revenue that was included in the opening contract liabilities balance was $22.5 million.
The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued ASC 842, Leases, to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by requiring the recognition of right of use (ROU) assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet.
We are also required to recognize and measure leases existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented using a modified retrospective approach, with certain practical expedients available.
Our ROU asset is recognized as the lease liability, any initial indirect costs and any prepaid lease payments, less any lease incentives.
Our lease liabilities are recognized based on the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term at commencement date.
Our variable lease payments are excluded in measuring ROU assets and lease liabilities because they do not depend on an index or a rate or are not in substance fixed payments.
Our leases typically do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at the commencement date in determining the present value of future payments.
For operating leases, after lease commencement, we measure our lease liability for each period at the present value of any remaining lease payments, discounted by using the rate determined at lease commencement.
In our condensed consolidated statement of income, we recognize a single operating lease expense calculated on a straight-line basis over the remaining lease term.
The depreciation of the ROU asset increases each year as a result of the declining lease liability balance.
Variable lease payments are not recognized in the measurement of the lease liability - they are recognized in the period in which the related obligation has been incurred.
In each period, the lease liability will be increased to reflect the interest that is accrued on the related lease liability by using the appropriate discount rate, offset by a decrease in the lease liability resulting from the periodic lease payments.
Our transportation vehicles and equipment leases include a residual value guarantee, which is a guarantee made to the lessor that the value of the underlying asset returned to the lessor at the end of the lease will be at least a specific amount.
We sublease some of our real estate lease space, resulting in sublease income of $6 thousand and $29 thousand as of the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively.
We recognize payments related to short-term leases (less than one year) as profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the lease term and variable lease payments in the period in which the obligation for those payments were incurred.
As such, our short-term lease expense for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 was $1.4 million and $2.8 million, respectively.
For the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, we incurred variable lease costs of $0.9 million and $1.4 million, respectively.
The purchase price of $114.6 million, which includes the finalized working capital adjustment, was preliminarily allocated to the underlying assets and liabilities based on their estimated fair value at the date of acquisition.
As we are still in the process of reviewing the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, the purchase price allocation for KGS is not complete as of June 30, 2019.
Basic earnings per share has been computed by dividing net income available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during each period.
For the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, options to purchase 479,685 shares and 251,250 shares, respectively, were outstanding but not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the options' effect would have been anti-dilutive.
For the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, options to purchase 496,859 shares and 280,833 shares, respectively, were outstanding but not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the options' effect would have been anti-dilutive.
For the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, there were 144,585 shares and 229,191 shares, respectively, issued from the exercise of stock options.
For the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 there were 72,493 shares and 86,233 shares, respectively, issued from the vesting of restricted stock units.
Depreciation and amortization expense related to property and equipment for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 was $6.2 million and $6.8 million, respectively.
Depreciation and amortization expense related to property and equipment for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 was $12.5 million and $12.7 million, respectively.
The types of awards available under the Plan include, among others, stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units (RSUs).
Equity awards granted under the Plan are settled in shares of Class A common stock.
At the beginning of each year, the Plan provides that the number of shares available for issuance automatically increases by an amount equal to 1.5% of the total number of shares of Class A and Class B common stock outstanding on December 31st of the previous year.
Through June 30, 2019, the remaining aggregate number of shares of our common stock available for future grants under the Plan was 6,707,684.
Subject to the express provisions of the Plan, the committee has the Board of Directors’ authority to administer and interpret the Plan, including the discretion to determine the exercise price, vesting schedule, contractual life and the number of shares to be issued.
Stock Compensation Expense—For the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, we recorded $1.9 million and $1.1 million of stock-based compensation expense.
For the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, we recorded $3.2 million and $2.2 million of stock-based compensation expense.
No compensation expense of employees with stock awards, including stock-based compensation expense, was capitalized during the periods.
For the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, we recorded $(0.5) million and $(0.2) million, respectively, to income tax expense (benefit) related to the exercise of stock options, vested cancellations and the vesting of restricted stock and restricted stock units.
For the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, we recorded $(0.7) million and $(1.7) million, respectively, to income tax expense (benefit) related to the exercise of stock options, vested cancellations and the vesting of restricted stock and restricted stock units.
A stock option gives the holder the right, but not the obligation to purchase a certain number of shares at a predetermined price for a specific period of time.
We typically issue options that vest over three years in equal installments beginning on the first anniversary of the date of grant.
During the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, we issued options that expire five years from the date of grant.
Stock Option Activity—The weighted-average fair value of options granted during the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, as determined under the Black-Scholes-Merton valuation model, was $10.07 and $9.96, respectively.
Option grants that vested during the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 had a combined fair value of $1.2 million and $0.7 million, respectively.
Unrecognized compensation expense related to non-vested awards was $6.1 million as of June 30, 2019, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2 years.
A restricted stock award is an issuance of shares that cannot be sold or transferred by the recipient until the vesting period lapses.
Restricted stock issued to members of our Board of Directors vest on the one year anniversary of the grant date.
The related compensation expense is recognized over the service period and is based on the grant date fair value of the stock.
The grant date fair value of the restricted stock is equal to the closing market price of our common stock on the date of grant.
Restricted Stock Activity— The following table summarizes the restricted stock activity during the year ended December 31, 2018 and the six months ended June 30, 2019.
Our employees have been granted performance-based RSUs and time-based RSUs. Performance-based RSUs result in the delivery of shares only if (a) performance criteria is met and (b) the employee remains employed, in good standing, through the date of the performance period.
The grant date fair value of the RSUs is equal to the closing market price of our common stock on the grant date less the present value of dividends expected to be awarded during the service period.
We recognize the grant date fair value of RSUs of shares we expect to issue as compensation expense ratably over the requisite service period.


item2.txt
The primary driver of our increase in revenues relates to revenue from new contract awards, growth on certain existing contracts and our recent acquisition, which were offset by contracts and tasks that ended and reduced scope of work on some contracts.
As a percentage of revenue, direct labor costs were 48% for both the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018.
As a percentage of revenues, other direct costs, which include subcontractors and third party equipment and materials used in the performance of our contracts, were 38% for the three months ended June 30, 2019, compared to 37% for the same period in 2018.
The increase in interest expense was due to increased borrowings on our revolving line of credit to fund the acquisition of Kforce Government Solutions.
Our effective income tax rates were 26% and 28% for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The primary driver of the decrease in our effective tax rate was due to an increased benefit from our deferred compensation plan and stock option exercises as well as increased tax expense for 2018 related to a discrete item recognized in the second quarter of 2018.
The primary driver of our increase in revenues relates to revenue from new contract awards and growth on certain existing contracts and our recent acquisition, which were offset by contracts and tasks that ended and reduced scope of work on some contracts.
As a percentage of revenue, direct labor costs were 48% for both the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018.
As a percentage of revenues, other direct costs, which include subcontractors and third party equipment and materials used in the performance of our contracts, were 38% for the six months ended June 30, 2019, compared to 37% for the same period in 2018.
These increases were partially offset by reduced bid and proposal spending and the reclassification of certain allocable expenses from general and administrative expenses to cost of services.
The increase in interest expense was due to increased borrowing on our revolving line of credit to fund the acquisition of Kforce Government Solutions (KGS).
We expect interest expense to increase for the remainder of 2019 due to increased borrowings under our credit facility to fund the acquisition.
Our funded backlog does not include the full value of our contracts because Congress often appropriates funds for a particular program or contract on a yearly or quarterly basis, even though the contract may call for performance over a much longer period of time.
A variety of circumstances or events may cause changes in the amount of our backlog and funded backlog, including the execution of new contracts, the extension of existing contracts, the non-renewal or completion of current contracts, the early termination of contracts and adjustment to estimates for previously included contracts.
Our primary liquidity needs relate to managing working capital, financing acquisitions, making cash dividend payments, purchasing property and equipment and investing in capital software.
Our primary sources of liquidity are cash from operating activities and borrowings under our revolving credit facility.
There were outstanding borrowings of $43.5 million under our revolving credit facility at June 30, 2019.
The maximum available borrowings under our revolving credit facility at June 30, 2019 were $448.8 million.
As of June 30, 2019, we were contingently liable under letters of credit totaling $7.7 million, which reduces our availability to borrow under our revolving credit facility.
Our operating cash flow is primarily affected by our ability to invoice and collect from our customers in a timely manner, our management of vendor payments and the overall profitability of our contracts.
For the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, our net cash from operating activities was $123.4 million and $35.0 million, respectively.
The increase in net cash flows from operating activities during the six months ended June 30, 2019 when compared to the same period in 2018 was primarily due to the timing of receivables collection.
We believe the capital resources available to us from cash on hand, our remaining capacity under our revolving credit facility, and cash from our operations are adequate to fund our anticipated cash requirements for at least the next year.
We anticipate financing our internal and external growth through cash from operating activities, borrowings under our revolving credit facility or other debt and issuance of equity.
Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, amounts due from banks and short-term investments with maturity dates of three months or less at the date of purchase.
As of June 30, 2019, $7.7 million in letters of credit were issued but undrawn.
In each period, the lease liability will be increased to reflect the interest that is accrued on the related lease liability by using the appropriate discount rate, offset by a decrease in the lease liability resulting from the periodic lease payments.
Certain other disclosure requirements are added to Subtopic 715-20, including (1) the weighted-average interest crediting rates for cash balance plans and other plans with promised interest crediting rates; and (2) an explanation of the reasons for significant gains and losses related to changes in the benefit obligation for the period.
The amendments are effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2020.
prior to the amendments in ASU 2017-04, had to perform procedures to determine the fair value at the impairment testing date of its assets and liabilities, including unrecognized assets and liabilities, in accordance with the procedure that would be required in determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination.
Under the amendments in this ASU, an entity should (1) perform its annual or interim goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount and (2) recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value, with the understanding that the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.
We do not expect the adoption of this ASU to have a material effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements.


item4.txt
As a result, our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that such disclosure controls and procedures will meet their objectives.
As of June 30, 2019, under the supervision and with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer (our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, respectively), management evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Rule 13a-15 of the Exchange Act. Based upon this evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level described above.


part2.txt
Item 1A.Risk Factors


