item1.txt
3.Revenue from Contracts with Customers
Revenue Recognition - On January 1, 2018, we adopted Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers using the modified retrospective method applied to those contracts that were not substantially complete as of January 1, 2018.
ASC 606 outlines a five-step model whereby revenue is recognized as performance obligations within the contract are satisfied.
We recognized the cumulative effect of adopting ASC 606 as an increase to the 2018 opening balance of retained earnings in the amount of $0.8 million, with the impact primarily related to fixed-price contracts.
Revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2018 increased $0.9 million as a result of applying ASC 606.
Then we determine the transaction price for the contract; the consideration to which we can expect in exchange for the promised goods or services in the contract.
We include estimated amounts in the transaction price to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is resolved.
Our estimates of variable consideration and determination of whether to include estimated amounts in the transaction price are based largely on an assessment of our anticipated performance and historical, current and forecasted information that is reasonably available to us.
The transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation using our best estimate of the standalone selling price for each distinct good or service promised in the contract.
The primary method used to estimate standalone selling price is the expected cost plus a margin approach, under which we forecast our expected costs of satisfying a performance obligation and then add an appropriate margin for that distinct good or service promised.
When control is transferred over time, revenue is recognized based on the extent of progress towards completion of the performance obligation.
Based on the nature of the products and services provided in the contract, we use our judgment to determine if an input measure or output measure best depicts the transfer of control over time.
For services contracts, we typically satisfy our performance obligations as services are rendered and use a contract cost-based input method to measure progress.
Revenue is recognized proportionally as contract costs are incurred plus estimated fees.
For time-and-material contracts, we bill the customer per labor hour and per material, and revenue is recognized in the amount invoiced since the amount corresponds directly to the value of our performance to date.
For stand-ready service contracts, a time-elapsed output method is used to measure progress, and revenue is recognized straight-line over the term of the contract.
If a contract does not meet the criteria for recognizing revenue over time, we recognize revenue at a point in time.
Revenue is recognized at the point in time when control of the good or service is transferred to our customer.
As part of this process, management reviews information including, but not limited to, any outstanding key contract matters, progress towards completion and the related program schedule, identified risks and opportunities and the related changes in estimates of revenue and costs.
Management must make assumptions and estimates regarding labor productivity and availability, the complexity of the work to be performed, the availability of materials, the length of time to complete the performance obligation, execution by our subcontractors, the availability and timing of funding from our customer and overhead cost rates, among other variables.
For the three months ended June 30, 2018, the aggregate impact of adjustments in contract estimates increased our revenue by $4.3 million.
For the six months ended June 30, 2018, the aggregate impact of adjustments in contract estimates increased our revenue by $5.8 million.
No adjustment on any one contract was material to our condensed consolidated financial statements for the six months ended June 30, 2018.
Revenue for cost-reimbursable contracts were recorded as reimbursable costs were incurred, including an estimated share of the applicable contractual fees earned.
For performance-based fees under cost-reimbursable contracts, we recognized the relevant portion of the expected fee to be awarded by the customer at the time such fee can be reasonably estimated, based on factors such as our prior award experience and communications with the customer regarding performance, or upon approval by the customer.
For time-and-materials contracts, revenue was recognized to the extent of billable rates times hours delivered plus materials and other reimbursable costs incurred.
For long-term fixed-price contracts, revenue was recognized at a rate per unit as the units were delivered or by other methods to measure services provided.
Revenue from other long-term fixed-price contracts were recognized ratably over the contract period or by other appropriate methods to measure services provided.
For long-term contracts, specifically described in the scope section of ASC 605-35, Revenue Recognition - Construction-Type and Production-Type Contracts, we applied the percentage of completion method.
Under the percentage of completion method, income was recognized at a consistent profit margin over the period of performance based on estimated profit margins at completion of the contract.
This method of accounting required estimating the total revenue and total contract cost at completion of the contract.
The impact on revenue and contract profit as a result of these revisions were included in the periods in which the revisions were made.
Estimated losses on contracts at completion were recognized when identified.
In certain circumstances, revenue was recognized when contract amendments were not finalized.
Contract liabilities - We receive advances and milestone payments from our customers on selected contracts that exceed revenue earned to date, resulting in contract liabilities.
Contract liabilities are reported on our condensed consolidated balance sheet on a net contract basis at the end of each reporting period.
Deferred contract costs - Costs of obtaining or fulfilling a contract that meet the criteria in ASC 340, Other Assets and Deferred Costs, are capitalized and amortized on a systematic basis that is consistent with the transfer of goods or services to the customer.
Deferred contracts costs are reported on our condensed consolidated balance sheet within current or non-current other assets based on the expected life of the related contract.
At June 30, 2018, we had $3.4 million of deferred contract costs.
Changes in the balances of contract assets and contract liabilities are primarily due to the timing difference between our performance and our customers' payments.
For the three months ended June 30, 2018, the amount of revenue that was included in the opening contract liabilities balance was $3.5 million.
For the six months ended June 30, 2018, the amount of revenue that was included in the opening contract liabilities balance was $5.8 million.
The purchase price of $184.0 million, which includes the finalized working capital adjustment, was preliminarily allocated to the underlying assets and liabilities based on their estimated fair value at the date of acquisition.
In preliminarily allocating the purchase price, we considered, among other factors, analysis of historical financial performance and estimates of future performance of InfoZen's contracts.
For the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, options to purchase 251,250 shares and 381,987 shares, respectively, were outstanding but not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the options' effect would have been anti-dilutive.
For the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, options to purchase 280,833 shares and 270,649 shares, respectively, were outstanding but not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the options' effect would have been anti-dilutive.
For the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, there were 229,191 shares and 102,936 shares, respectively, issued from the exercise of stock options.
Through June 30, 2018, the remaining aggregate number of shares of our common stock available for future grants under the Plan was 6,281,509.
Subject to the express provisions of the Plan, the committee has the Board of Directors’ authority to administer and interpret the Plan, including the discretion to determine the exercise price, vesting schedule, contractual life and the number of shares to be issued.
Stock Compensation Expense—For the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, we recorded $1.1 million and $1.3 million of stock-based compensation expense, respectively.
For the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, we recorded $2.2 million and $2.3 million of stock-based compensation expense, respectively.
For the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, we recorded $(0.2) million and $(0.2) million, respectively, to income tax expense (benefit) related to the exercise of stock options, vested cancellations and the vesting of restricted stock.
For the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, we recorded $(1.3) million and $(0.1) million, respectively, to income tax expense (benefit) related to the exercise of stock options, vested cancellations and the vesting of restricted stock.
A stock option gives the holder the right, but not the obligation to purchase a certain number of shares at a predetermined price for a specific period of time.
During the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, we issued options that expire five years from the date of grant.
Stock Option Activity—The weighted-average fair value of options granted during the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, as determined under the Black-Scholes-Merton valuation model, was $9.96 and $5.63, respectively.
Option grants that vested during the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 had a combined fair value of $0.7 million and $0.8 million, respectively.
Unrecognized compensation expense related to non-vested awards was $4.6 million as of June 30, 2018, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2 years.
The related compensation expense is recognized over the service period and is based on the grant date fair value of the stock.
Our employees have been granted performance-based RSUs and time-based RSUs. Performance-based RSUs result in the delivery of shares only if (a) performance criteria is met and (b) the employee remains employed, in good standing, through the date of the performance period of two years.
The grant date fair value of the RSUs is equal to the closing market price of our common stock on the grant date less the present value of dividends expected to be awarded during the service period.
We recognize the grant date fair value of RSUs of shares we expect to issue as compensation expense ratably over the requisite service period.


item2.txt
The primary driver of our increase in revenues relates to revenues from new contract awards, growth on certain existing contracts and acquisitions.
As a percentage of revenue, direct labor costs were 48% for the three months ended June 30, 2018, compared to 49% for the same period in 2017.
As a percentage of revenues, other direct costs, which include subcontractors and third party equipment and materials used in the performance of our contracts, was 37% for the three months ended June 30, 2018, compared to 36% fo the same period in 2017.
The increase in interest expense was due to increased borrowings under our credit facility to fund the acquisition of InfoZen in the fourth quarter of 2017 and the purchase of equipment to support a managed IT services contract.
The primary driver of our increase in revenue relates to revenues from new contract awards, growth on existing contracts, including higher levels of material procurements, and acquisitions.
As a percentage of revenue, direct labor costs were 48% for the six months ended June 30, 2018, compared to 49% for the same period in 2017.
As a percentage of revenue, other direct costs, which include subcontractors as well as equipment and materials used in the performance of our contracts, was 37% for the six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to 36% for the same period in 2017.
The increase in interest expense was due to increased borrowings under our credit facility to fund the acquisition of InfoZen in the fourth quarter of 2017 and the purchase of equipment to support a managed IT services contract.
Our funded backlog does not include the full value of our contracts because Congress often appropriates funds for a particular program or contract on a yearly or quarterly basis, even though the contract may call for performance over a much longer period of time.
A variety of circumstances or events may cause changes in the amount of our backlog and funded backlog, including the execution of new contracts, the extension of existing contracts, the non-renewal or completion of current contracts, the early termination of contracts, and adjustment to estimates for previously included contracts.
Our operating cash flow is primarily affected by our ability to invoice and collect from our customers in a timely manner, our management of vendor payments and the overall profitability of our contracts.
The decrease in net cash flows from operating activities during the six months ended June 30, 2018 when compared to the same period in 2017 was primarily due to the timing of receivables.
We have an outstanding performance bond in connection with a contract between ManTech MENA, LLC and Jadwalean International Operations and Management Company to fulfill technical support requirements for the Royal Saudi Air Force.
At contract inception, we identify the distinct goods or services promised in the contract, referred to as performance obligations.
Then we determine the transaction price for the contract; the consideration to which we can can expect in exchange for the promised goods or services in the contract.
include estimated amounts in the transaction price to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is resolved.
Our estimates of variable consideration and determination of whether to include estimated amounts in the transaction price are based largely on an assessment of our anticipated performance and historical, current and forecasted information that is reasonably available to us.
The transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation using our best estimate of the standalone selling price for each distinct good or service promised in the contract.
The primary method used to estimate standalone selling price is the expected cost plus a margin approach, under which we forecast our expected costs of satisfying a performance obligation and then add an appropriate margin for that distinct good or service promised.
Revenue is recognized when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied.
We recognize revenue over time when there is a continuous transfer of control to our customer.
For our U.S. government contracts, this continuous transfer of control to the customer is supported by clauses in the contract that allow the U.S. government to unilaterally terminate the contract for convenience, pay us for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit and take control of any work in process.
When control is transferred over time, revenue is recognized based on the extent of progress towards completion of the performance obligation.
Based on the nature of the products and services provided in the contract, we use our judgment to determine if an input measure or output measure best depicts the transfer of control over time.
For services contracts, we typically satisfy our performance obligations as services are rendered and use a contract cost-based input method to measure progress.
Revenue is recognized proportionally as contract costs are incurred plus estimated fees.
For time-and-material contracts, we bill the customer per labor hour and per material, and revenue is recognized in the amount invoiced since the amount corresponds directly to the value of our performance to date.
For stand-ready service contracts, a time-elapsed output method is used to measure progress, and revenue is recognized straight-line over the term of the contract.
If a contract does not meet the criteria for recognizing revenue over time, we recognize revenue at a point in time.
Revenue is recognized at the point in time when control of the good or service is transferred to our customer.
Determining a measure of progress and when control transfers requires us to make judgments that affect the timing of when revenue is recognized.
Essentially all of our contracts satisfy their performance obligations over time.
Contract modifications impact performance obligation when the modification either creates new or changes the existing enforceable rights and obligations.
The effect of a contract modification on the transaction price and our measure of progress for the performance obligation to which it relates is recognized as an adjustment to revenue under the cumulative catch-up method.
We recognize adjustments in estimated profit on contracts in the period identified.
If at any time the estimate of contract profitability indicates an anticipated loss on the contract, we recognize the loss in the quarter it is identified.
The impact of adjustments in contract estimates can be reflected in either revenue or operating expenses on the condensed consolidated statement of income.
ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606) supersedes existing revenue recognition guidance, including ASC 605-35, Revenue Recognition - Construction-Type and Production-Type Contracts.
Among other things, it requires companies to identify contractual performance obligations and determine whether revenue should be recognized at a point in time or over time.
We recognized the cumulative effect of adopting ASC 606 as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the amount of $0.8 million, with the impact primarily related to fixed-price contracts.
Revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2018 increased $0.9 million as a result of applying ASC 606.


item4.txt
As a result, our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that such disclosure controls and procedures will meet their objectives.
evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level described above.


part2.txt
Item 1A.Risk Factors


