item1.txt
We recognized the cumulative effect of adopting ASC 606 as an increase to the 2018 opening balance of retained earnings in the amount of $0.8 million, with the impact primarily related to fixed-price contracts.
As part of this process, we review information including, but not limited to, any outstanding key contract matters, progress towards completion and the related program schedule, identified risks and opportunities and the related changes in estimates of revenue and costs.
For the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, the aggregate impact of adjustments in contract estimates increased our revenue by $5.9 million and $4.5 million, respectively.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, the aggregate impact of adjustments in contract estimates increased our revenue by $9.0 million and $8.8 million, respectively.
For the three months ended and nine months ended September 30, 2019, the amount of revenue that was included in the opening contract liabilities balance were $0.9 million and $23.4 million, respectively.
Our lease liabilities are recognized based on the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term at commencement date.
Our lease payments consist of amounts relating to the use of the underlying asset during the lease term, specifically fixed payments, payment to be made in optional periods when we are reasonably certain to exercise an option to extend the lease or not to exercise an option to terminate the lease and the amounts probable of being owned by us under residual guarantees.
Our leases typically do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at the commencement date in determining the present value of future payments.
We recognize payments related to short-term leases (less than one year) as expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term and variable lease payments in the period in which the obligation for those payments were incurred.
As such, our short-term lease expense for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 was $1.4 million and $4.2 million, respectively.
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, we incurred variable lease costs of $0.5 million and $1.9 million, respectively.
The preliminary purchase price of $38.8 million, which includes an estimated working capital adjustment, was preliminarily allocated to the underlying assets and liabilities based on their estimated fair value at the date of acquisition.
As we are still in the process of reviewing the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed and in finalizing the closing working capital adjustment, the purchase price allocation for H2M is not complete as of September 30, 2019.
In preliminarily allocating the purchase price, we considered, among other factors, analysis of historical performance and estimates of future performance of H2M's contracts.
The components of other intangible assets associated with the acquisition were customer relationships and backlog valued at $9.6 million and $2.3 million, respectively.
The purchase price of $114.6 million, which includes the finalized working capital adjustment, was preliminarily allocated to the underlying assets and liabilities based on their estimated fair value at the date of acquisition.
As we are still in the process of reviewing the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, the purchase price allocation for KGS is not complete as of September 30, 2019.
In preliminarily allocating the purchase price, we considered, among other factors, analysis of historical financial performance and estimates of future performance of KGS's contracts.
Basic earnings per share has been computed by dividing net income available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during each period.
For the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, options to purchase 7,641 shares and 242,789 shares, respectively, were outstanding but not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the options' effect would have been anti-dilutive.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, options to purchase 331,994 shares and 268,013 shares, respectively, were outstanding but not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the options' effect would have been anti-dilutive.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, there were 255,376 shares and 387,926 shares, respectively, issued from the exercise of stock options.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 there were 76,346 shares and 86,233 shares, respectively, issued from the vesting of restricted stock units.
Depreciation and amortization expense related to property and equipment for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 was $6.9 million and $6.4 million, respectively.
Depreciation and amortization expense related to property and equipment for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 was $19.4 million and $19.1 million, respectively.
As of and during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, we were in compliance with the financial covenants under the credit agreement.
The types of awards available under the Plan include, among others, stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units (RSUs).
Equity awards granted under the Plan are settled in shares of Class A common stock.
At the beginning of each year, the Plan provides that the number of shares available for issuance automatically increases by an amount equal to 1.5% of the total number of shares of Class A and Class B common stock outstanding on December 31st of the previous year.
Through September 30, 2019, the remaining aggregate number of shares of our common stock available for future grants under the Plan was 6,727,002.
Subject to the express provisions of the Plan, the committee has the Board of Directors’ authority to administer and interpret the Plan, including the discretion to determine the exercise price, vesting schedule, contractual life and the number of shares to be issued.
Stock Compensation Expense—For the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, we recorded $2.0 million and $1.3 million of stock-based compensation expense.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, we recorded $5.2 million and $3.6 million of stock-based compensation expense.
including stock-based compensation expense, was capitalized during the periods.
For the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, we recorded $(0.9) million and $(1.2) million, respectively, to income tax expense (benefit) related to the exercise of stock options, vested cancellations and the vesting of restricted stock and restricted stock units.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, we recorded $(1.6) million and $(2.9) million, respectively, to income tax expense (benefit) related to the exercise of stock options, vested cancellations and the vesting of restricted stock and restricted stock units.
A stock option gives the holder the right, but not the obligation to purchase a certain number of shares at a predetermined price for a specific period of time.
We typically issue options that vest over three years in equal installments beginning on the first anniversary of the date of grant.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, we issued options that expire five years from the date of grant.
Fair Value Determination—We have used the Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing model to determine the fair value of our awards on the date of grant.
We will reconsider the use of the Black-Scholes-Merton model if additional information becomes available in the future that indicates another model would be more appropriate or if grants issued in future periods have characteristics that cannot be reasonably estimated under this model.
Stock Option Activity—The weighted-average fair value of options granted during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, as determined under the Black-Scholes-Merton valuation model, was $10.10 and $9.98, respectively.
Option grants that vested during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 had a combined fair value of $1.2 million and $0.7 million, respectively.
Unrecognized compensation expense related to non-vested awards was $5.1 million as of September 30, 2019, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2 years.
A restricted stock award is an issuance of shares that cannot be sold or transferred by the recipient until the vesting period lapses.
Restricted stock issued to members of our Board of Directors vest on the one year anniversary of the grant date.
The related compensation expense is recognized over the service period and is based on the grant date fair value of the stock.
The grant date fair value of the restricted stock is equal to the closing market price of our common stock on the date of grant.
Restricted Stock Activity— The following table summarizes the restricted stock activity during the year ended December 31, 2018 and the nine months ended September 30, 2019.
Our employees have been granted performance-based RSUs and time-based RSUs. Performance-based RSUs result in the delivery of shares only if (a) performance criteria is met and (b) the employee remains employed, in good standing, through the date of the performance period.
The grant date fair value of the RSUs is equal to the closing market price of our common stock on the grant date less the present value of dividends expected to be awarded during the service period.
We recognize the grant date fair value of RSUs of shares we expect to issue as compensation expense ratably over the requisite service period.


item2.txt
Through legislation passed in September 2018 and February 2019, all agencies of the U.S. federal government were funded through Government fiscal year (GFY) 2019.
The Act effectively ended the threat of sequestration by increasing spending for GFY 2020 and 2021 above caps previously in place under the Budget Control Act. The GFY 2020 and 2021 budgets include increases for areas supporting national security.
The following table sets forth certain items from our condensed consolidated statements of income and the relative percentage that certain items of expenses and earnings bear to revenue, as well as the period-to-period change from September 30, 2018 to September 30, 2019.
The primary driver of our increase in revenues relates to revenue from new contract awards, growth on certain existing contracts and our recent acquisitions, which were offset by contracts and tasks that ended and reduced scope of work or lower material purchases on some contracts.
As a percentage of revenue, direct labor costs were 46% for both the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018.
As a percentage of revenues, other direct costs, which include subcontractors and third party equipment and materials used in the performance of our contracts, were 38% for the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to 39% for the same period in 2018.
The increase in interest expense was due to increased borrowings on our revolving line of credit to fund our acquisitions.
Our effective income tax rates were 26% and 24% for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The primary driver of the increase in our effective tax rate was the impact of discrete items recognized in the third quarter of 2018, which were more favorable than discrete items recognized in the third quarter of 2019.
The following table sets forth certain items from our condensed consolidated statements of income and the relative percentage that certain items of expenses and earnings bear to revenue, as well as the period-to-period change from September 30, 2018 to September 30, 2019.
The primary driver of our increase in revenues was revenue from new contract awards and growth on certain existing contracts and our recent acquisitions, which was offset by contracts and tasks that ended and reduced scope of work on some contracts.
As a percentage of revenue, direct labor costs were 47% and 48% for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
As a percentage of revenues, other direct costs, which include subcontractors and third party equipment and materials used in the performance of our contracts, were 38% for both the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018.
These increases were partially offset by reduced bid and proposal spending, lower amortization on acquired intangibles and the reclassification of certain allocable expenses from general and administrative expenses to cost of services.
The increase in interest expense was due to increased borrowing on our revolving line of credit to fund the acquisitions of Kforce Government Solutions (KGS) and H2M Group (H2M).
We define funded backlog to be the portion of backlog for which funding currently is appropriated and allocated to the contract by the purchasing agency or otherwise authorized for payment by the customer upon completion of a specific portion of work.
Our funded backlog does not include the full value of our contracts because Congress often appropriates funds for a particular program or contract on a yearly or quarterly basis, even though the contract may call for performance over a much longer period of time.
Our primary liquidity needs relate to managing working capital, financing acquisitions, making cash dividend payments, purchasing property and equipment and investing in capital software.
Our primary sources of liquidity are cash from operating activities and borrowings under our revolving credit facility.
There were outstanding borrowings of $25.0 million under our revolving credit facility at September 30, 2019.
The maximum available borrowings under our revolving credit facility at September 30, 2019 were $467.3 million.
As of September 30, 2019, we were contingently liable under letters of credit totaling $7.7 million, which reduces our availability to borrow under our revolving credit facility.
Our operating cash flow is primarily affected by our ability to invoice and collect from our customers in a timely manner, our management of vendor payments and the overall profitability of our contracts.
Our accounts receivable days sales outstanding were 57 and 67 for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, our net cash from operating activities was $233.0 
We believe the capital resources available to us from cash on hand, our remaining capacity under our revolving credit facility, and cash from our operations are adequate to fund our anticipated cash requirements for at least the next year.
We anticipate financing our internal and external growth through cash from operating activities, borrowings under our revolving credit facility or other debt and issuance of equity.
Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, amounts due from banks and short-term investments with maturity dates of three months or less at the date of purchase.
Our lease liabilities are recognized based on the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term at commencement date.
Our lease payments consist of amounts relating to the use of the underlying asset during the lease term, specifically fixed payments, payments to be made in optional periods when we are reasonably certain to exercise an option to extend the lease or not to exercise an option to terminate the lease and the amounts probable of being owed by us under residual guarantees.
Our leases typically do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at the commencement date in determining the present value of future payments.
In each period, the lease liability will be increased to reflect the interest that is accrued on the related lease liability by using the appropriate discount rate, offset by a decrease in the lease liability resulting from the periodic lease payments.
period included in other comprehensive income for recurring Level 3 fair value measurements held at the end of the reporting period, and (2) the range and weighted average of significant unobservable inputs used to develop Level 3 fair value measurements.
The amendments regarding changes in unrealized gains and losses, the range and weighted average of significant unobservable inputs used to develop Level 3 fair value measurements, and the narrative description of measurement uncertainty should be applied prospectively for only the most recent interim or annual period presented in the initial fiscal year of adoption.


item4.txt
As a result, our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that such disclosure controls and procedures will meet their objectives.
As of September 30, 2019, under the supervision and with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer (our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, respectively), management evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Rule 13a-15 of the Exchange Act. Based upon this evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level described above.


part2.txt
Item 1A.Risk Factors


