In our power solutions and protection group, we provide intelligent, efficient and reliable AC-DC and DC-DC power conversion devices and circuit protection products. Applications range from board-mount power to system-level architectures for servers, storage, networking, industrial and transportation. 
The weighted-average interest rate in effect was 4.13% at June 30, 2018 and 3.38% at December 31, 2017 and consisted of LIBOR plus the Company's credit spread, as determined per the terms of the CSA. The Company incurred $1.3 million and $1.6 million of interest expense during the three months ended June 30, 2018 and June 30, 2017, respectively, and $2.5 million and $3.0 million of interest expense during the six months ended June 30, 2018 and June 30, 2017, respectively. 
Warranties vary by product line and are competitive for the markets in which the Company operates. Warranties generally extend for one to three years from the date of sale, providing customers with assurance that the related product will function as intended. The Company reviews its warranty liability quarterly based on an analysis of actual expenses and failure rates accompanied with estimated future costs and projected failure rate trends. Factors taken into consideration when evaluating our warranty reserve are (i) historical claims for each product, (ii) volume increases, (iii) life of warranty, (iv) historical warranty repair costs and (v) other factors. To the extent that actual experience differs from our estimate, the provision for product warranties will be adjusted in future periods. Actual warranty repair costs are charged against the reserve balance as incurred. See Note 11, "Accrued Expenses." 
Net Sales – Segment net sales are attributed to individual segments based on the geographic source of the billing for such customer sales. Intercompany sales include finished products manufactured in foreign countries which are then transferred to the United States and Europe for sale; finished goods manufactured in the United States which are transferred to Europe and Asia for sale; and semi-finished components manufactured in the United States which are sold to Asia for further processing. 
The Company's significant accounting policies are summarized in Note 1 of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017. There were no significant changes to these accounting policies during the six months ended June 30, 2018, except as discussed in Note 2, Revenue, related to the adoption of the new revenue standards. 
We estimate product returns, including product exchanges under warranty, based on historical experience. In general, the Company is not contractually obligated to accept returns except for defective product or in instances where the product does not meet the Company's product specifications. However, the Company may permit its customers to return product for other reasons. In certain instances, the Company would generally require a significant cancellation penalty payment by the customer. The Company estimates such returns, where applicable, based upon management's evaluation of historical experience, market acceptance of products produced and known negotiations with customers. Such estimates are deducted from sales and provided for at the time revenue is recognized. Distribution customers often receive what is referred to as "ship and debit" arrangements, whereby Bel will invoice them at an agreed upon unit price upon shipment of product and a price reduction may be granted if the market price of the product declines after shipment. Distributors may also be entitled to special pricing discount credits, and certain customers are entitled to return allowances based on previous sales volumes. Bel deducts estimates for anticipated credits, refunds and returns from sales each quarter based on historical experience. 
The change in balance of our unbilled receivables from January 1, 2018 to June 30, 2018 primarily relates to a timing difference between the Company's performance (i.e. when our product is shipped to a customer-controlled hub) and the point at which the Company can invoice the customer per the terms of the customer contract (i.e. when the customer pulls our product from the customer-controlled hub). 
Our revenues are substantially derived from sales of our products. 
Contracts with customers indicate the general terms and conditions in which business will be conducted for a set period of time. Individual purchase orders state the description, quantity and price of each product purchased. Payment for products sold under direct contracts with customers or contracts with distributors is typically due in full within 30-90 days from the transfer of title to customer. Payment for products sold under consignment contracts is typically due within 60 days of the customer pulling the product from the hub. Payment due related to our licensing agreements is generally within 30 days of receiving the licensee sales data, which is either on a quarterly or annual basis. 
In accordance with ASC 606, revenue is recognized when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services. The amount of revenue recognized reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled to receive in exchange for these goods and services. 
The Company maintains the Bel Fuse Inc. Employees' Savings Plan, a defined contribution plan that is intended to meet the applicable requirements for tax-qualification under sections 401(a) and (k) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). The expense for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 amounted to $0.3 million in both periods. The expense for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 amounted to $0.6 million in both periods. The Company's matching contribution is made in the form of Bel Fuse Inc. Class A common stock. As of June 30, 2018, the plan owned 90,521 and 140,591 shares of Bel Fuse Inc. Class A and Class B common stock, respectively. Our Magnetic Solutions group benefited from a strong position on next-generation switching products which utilize our integrated connector modules. This accounted for $1.0 million and $3.9 million of the sales growth during the second quarter and six-month period versus 2017. Our Signal Transformer business also contributed with an increase in sales of $1.3 million and $1.6 million during the second quarter and six-month period, as orders from new programs within industrial applications continued to ramp up in the second quarter. 
  ·   Revenues – The Company's revenues increased by $13.7 million (or 5.6%) in the first half of 2018 as compared to the same period of 2017, despite a $3.7 million decline in sales related to the NPS divestiture. Sales growth was seen across all of our major product groups and primarily related to higher sales through our distribution partners during the 2018 period and the new project wins from 2017 moving into production.     
Net sales and income from operations by operating segment for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 were as follows. Segment net sales are attributed to individual segments based on the geographic source of the billing for customer sales. 
The growth in North America sales in 2018 was largely due to increased demand for our passive connector products in structured cabling applications, strength in our connectivity products within key military programs, and higher sales of our transformer products into medical applications. In addition, sales with our Power Solutions business rebounded in 2018 largely due to increased demand for our power supplies in various datacenter applications. The decrease in Asia sales noted above for the second quarter primarily relates to reduced demand for custom module products, which was offset in part by higher sales of our integrated connector modules during the second quarter of 2018. Sales in Europe increased in both 2018 periods presented as a result of higher demand for our Stewart and Cinch connector products in that region, coupled with strong sales of our power products into rail applications. There was also a favorable impact on our European sales in general as a portion of those sales are invoiced in Euros or Pounds, which had appreciated against the U.S. Dollar in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to the same periods of 2017. 
The improvement in income from operations within our North America segment was largely due to higher sales volumes in the 2018 periods, partially offset by increased material costs on purchased components. The six-month period of 2018 was also affected by higher labor costs in Mexico, due to the appreciation of the Peso during the first quarter of 2018 compared to the same period last year. The reduction in income from operations at our Asia segment for the six-month period was primarily due to higher labor costs driven by an increase in minimum wage rates at one of our factories in the PRC and the unfavorable appreciation of the Renminbi during the first half of 2018 compared to the same period of 2017. Asia income from operations was flat year-over-year for the second quarter as higher labor and material costs were offset by a favorable shift in product mix and foreign exchange gains on the remeasurement of foreign exchange transactions. The increase in income from operations from our Europe segment are consistent with the increase in sales for that segment. 
During the six months ended June 30, 2017, accounts receivable increased by $13.8 million primarily due to higher sales volume in the second quarter of 2017 as compared to the fourth quarter of 2016. Days sales outstanding (DSO) increased to 62 days at June 30, 2017 from 54 days at December 31, 2016, primary due the extension of credit terms with one of our large customers, as well as the increase in revenue (and resulting accounts receivable balance) in our Asia segment where DSO tends to be higher as compared to our other geographic segments. Inventory levels were up by $2.7 million at June 30, 2017 compared to December 31, 2016 as raw materials and work in progress balances increased from year-end levels to accommodate increased demand for our products. 
We design, manufacture and market a broad array of products that power, protect and connect electronic circuits. These products are primarily used in the networking, telecommunications, computing, military, aerospace, transportation and broadcasting industries. Bel's portfolio of products also finds application in the automotive, medical and consumer electronics markets. PART II. Other Information 