BCMZ has a diversified portfolio of customers in the automotive, aerospace, defense, telecommunication, fibre-optic and medical industrial sectors and has been a long-term key supplier of precision machined components for our Cinch Connectivity Solutions UK business. BCMZ is additionally expected to give Cinch the capability to continue to support key defense and industrial customers across Europe with localized in-house machining ability. 
Warranties vary by product line and are competitive for the markets in which the Company operates. Warranties generally extend for one to three years from the date of sale, providing customers with assurance that the related product will function as intended. The Company reviews its warranty liability quarterly based on an analysis of actual expenses and failure rates accompanied with estimated future costs and projected failure rate trends. Factors taken into consideration when evaluating our warranty reserve are (i) historical claims for each product, (ii) volume increases, (iii) life of warranty, (iv) historical warranty repair costs and (v) other factors. To the extent that actual experience differs from our estimate, the provision for product warranties will be adjusted in future periods. Actual warranty repair costs are charged against the reserve balance as incurred. See Note 7, "Accrued Expenses." 
Net Sales – Segment net sales are attributed to individual segments based on the geographic source of the billing for such customer sales. Intercompany sales include finished products manufactured in foreign countries which are then transferred to the United States and Europe for sale; finished goods manufactured in the United States which are transferred to Europe and Asia for sale; and semi-finished components manufactured in the United States which are sold to Asia for further processing. 
We estimate product returns, including product exchanges under warranty, based on historical experience. In general, the Company is not contractually obligated to accept returns except for defective product or in instances where the product does not meet the Company's product specifications. However, the Company may permit its customers to return product for other reasons. In certain instances, the Company would generally require a significant cancellation penalty payment by the customer. The Company estimates such returns, where applicable, based upon management's evaluation of historical experience, market acceptance of products produced and known negotiations with customers. Such estimates are deducted from sales and provided for at the time revenue is recognized. Distribution customers often receive what is referred to as "ship and debit" arrangements, whereby Bel will invoice them at an agreed upon unit price upon shipment of product and a price reduction may be granted if the market price of the product declines after shipment. Distributors may also be entitled to special pricing discount credits, and certain customers are entitled to return allowances based on previous sales volumes. Bel deducts estimates for anticipated credits, refunds and returns from sales each quarter based on historical experience. 
The Company's subsidiaries in Asia have a retirement fund covering substantially all of their Hong Kong based full-time employees. The expense for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 amounted to $0.1 million in both periods. The expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 amounted to $0.3 million in both periods. As of September 30, 2018, the plan owned 3,323 and 17,342 shares of Bel Fuse Inc. Class A and Class B common stock, respectively. 
The Company's significant accounting policies are summarized in Note 1 of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017. There were no significant changes to these accounting policies during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, except as discussed in Note 2, Revenue, related to the adoption of the new revenue standards. 
The change in balance of our unbilled receivables from January 1, 2018 to September 30, 2018 primarily relates to a timing difference between the Company's performance (i.e. when our product is shipped to a customer-controlled hub) and the point at which the Company can invoice the customer per the terms of the customer contract (i.e. when the customer pulls our product from the customer-controlled hub). 
Our revenues are substantially derived from sales of our products. 
Contracts with customers indicate the general terms and conditions in which business will be conducted for a set period of time. Individual purchase orders state the description, quantity and price of each product purchased. Payment for products sold under direct contracts with customers or contracts with distributors is typically due in full within 30-90 days from the transfer of title to customer. Payment for products sold under consignment contracts is typically due within 60 days of the customer pulling the product from the hub. Payment due related to our licensing agreements is generally within 30 days of receiving the licensee sales data, which is either on a quarterly or annual basis. 
In accordance with ASC 606, revenue is recognized when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services. The amount of revenue recognized reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled to receive in exchange for these goods and services.   ·   Revenues – The Company's revenues increased by $33.8 million, or 9.1%, in the first nine months of 2018 as compared to the same period of 2017, despite a $5.1 million decline in sales related to the NPS divestiture. Sales growth was seen across all of our major product groups as certain project wins from 2017 are in full production and we continue to see strength in sales through our distribution partners.     
Our Magnetic Solutions group continued to benefit from a strong position on next-generation switching products which utilize our integrated connector modules. This accounted for $7.5 million and $11.4 million of the sales growth during the third quarter and nine-month period of 2018 versus 2017. Our Signal Transformer business also contributed with an increase in sales of $1.6 million and $3.2 million during the third quarter and nine-month period of 2018, as orders from new programs within industrial applications remained strong throughout the third quarter. 
Our connectivity solutions products showed an overall improvement in sales of $5.7 million and $12.0 million during the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, respectively, compared to the same periods of 2017. Sales of our Stewart passive connectors were very strong in the 2018 periods with increases of $3.6 million and $7.1 million during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to 2017. This was largely led by higher demand from our premise wiring customers in North America and Europe in response to improved economic conditions in the construction industry. We have also had a greater level of focus on our distribution channel in 2018 and our Stewart products have benefited from the increased exposure through our distribution base. Sales of our Cinch products were also up in 2018 (by $2.1 million for the third quarter and by $5.0 million for the nine-month period) primarily from the military sector for our optical and copper products used in encryption, communications and flight-grade applications and for our micro-miniature copper connectivity products in relation to key defense programs. 
Net sales and income from operations by operating segment for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 were as follows. Segment net sales are attributed to individual segments based on the geographic source of the billing for customer sales. 
The other expenses noted in the table above include fixed cost items such as support labor and fringe, depreciation and amortization, and facility costs (rent, utilities, insurance). In total, these other expenses increased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 by $1.1 million and $3.1 million, respectively, as compared to the same periods of 2017. This included higher support labor costs of $1.5 million and $3.0 million, respectively, partially offset by lower depreciation and amortization expense of $0.4 million and $0.9 million during the three and nine-month periods ending September 30, 2018 as compared to the same periods of 2017. 
  ·   repayments of long-term debt of $25.2 million; partially offset by     
  ·   Backlog – Our backlog reached $185.1 million at September 30, 2018, representing an increase of $38.6 million, or 26%, from December 31, 2017. Since year-end, we saw a 65% increase at Magnetic Solutions, driven by a strong position with our integrated connector modules in next-generation switching products. The backlog for our Connectivity Solutions products increased by 21%, driven by recent awards on key military programs, and heightened structured cabling demand for our passive connectors. Our Power Solutions and Protection backlog grew by 9%, led by higher demand for our power supplies for a variety of datacenter applications.     
The growth in North America sales in 2018 was largely due to increased demand for our passive connector products from our premise wiring customers, strength in our connectivity products within key military programs, and higher sales of our transformer products into medical applications. Sales of our Power Solutions products have also increased in 2018 with heightened demand for our power supplies for use in various datacenter applications. The increases in Asia sales noted above for the 2018 periods primarily relate to higher sales of our integrated connector modules for next-generation switching platforms. Sales in Europe increased in both 2018 periods presented as a result of higher demand for our Stewart and Cinch connector products in that region, coupled with strong sales of our power products into rail applications. There was also a favorable impact on our European sales in general during the nine-month period ended September 30, 2018 as a portion of those sales are invoiced in Euros or Pounds, which had appreciated against the U.S. Dollar particularly during the first half of 2018 as compared to the same period of 2017. Item 1. Legal Proceedings 