item1.txt
In the opinion of management, all normal recurring adjustments necessary to present fairly the consolidated balance sheet as of October 27, 2018; the results of operations and the statements of comprehensive income (loss) for the three months ended October 27, 2018 and October 28, 2017; the statements of cash flows and equity for the three months ended October 27, 2018 and October 28, 2017, as applicable, have been made.
It also requires increased disclosures including the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenues and cash flows related to contracts with customers.
In addition to the above revenue recognition timing impacts, ASC 606 requires incremental contract acquisition costs (such as sales commissions) for customer contracts to be capitalized and amortized on a systematic basis that is consistent with the transfer to the customer of the goods or services to which the assets relates.
We enter into contracts with customers that can include various combinations of products and services which are generally distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations.
We determine whether arrangements are distinct based on whether the customer can benefit from the product or service on its own or together with other resources that are readily available and whether our commitment to transfer the product or service to the customer is separately identifiable from other obligations in the contract.
We recognize revenue upon transfer of control of promised goods or services in a contract with a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products or services.
Transfer of control can also occur over time for software maintenance and services as the customer receives the benefit over the contract term.
Term software licenses include multiple performance obligations where the term licenses are recognized upfront upon transfer of control, with the associated software maintenance revenue recognized ratably over the contract term as services and software updates are provided.
SaaS arrangements have one distinct performance obligation which is satisfied over time with revenue recognized ratably over the contract term as the customer consumes the services.
Financial Instruments In January 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that changes the accounting for equity investments, financial liabilities under the fair value option, and the presentation and disclosure requirements for financial instruments.
The most significant impact of this accounting standard update is that it requires the remeasurement of investments not accounted for under the equity method to be recorded at fair value through the Consolidated Statement of Operations at the end of each reporting period.
As of October 27, 2018, the balance sheet changes attributable to ASC 606 related to accounts receivable, inventories, and deferred revenue were not materially different than the impacts upon adoption.
Leases In February 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update and subsequent amendments related to leases requiring lessees to recognize operating and financing lease liabilities on the balance sheet, as well as corresponding right-of-use assets.
We expect to adopt this accounting standard update on a modified retrospective basis in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, and we are currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Credit Losses of Financial Instruments  In June 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that requires measurement and recognition of expected credit losses for financial assets held based on historical experience, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts that affect the collectibility of the reported amount.
We expect to adopt this accounting standard update on a modified retrospective basis in the first quarter of fiscal 2021, and we are currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Therefore, security software licenses are generally represented by a single distinct performance obligation with revenue recognized ratably over the contract term.
In addition to our product offerings, we provide a broad range of service and support options for our customers, including technical support services and advanced services.
Technical support services represent the majority of these offerings which are distinct performance obligations that are satisfied over time with revenue recognized ratably over the contract term.
In connection with the adoption of ASC 606, we began to capitalize direct and incremental costs incurred to acquire contracts, primarily sales commissions, for which the associated revenue is expected to be recognized in future periods.
As of October 27, 2018, this business had tangible assets of approximately $165 million (primarily comprised of accounts receivables, inventories and various other current and long-term assets) and net intangible assets and goodwill (based on relative fair value) of $330 million.
We evaluate on an ongoing basis our investments in these privately held companies and our customer financings, and have determined that as of October 27, 2018, except as disclosed in Note 1, there were no significant variable interest entities required to be consolidated in our Consolidated Financial Statements.
As of October 27, 2018, the carrying value of our non-marketable equity securities was $1.2 billion, of which $670 million of such investments are considered to be in variable interest entities which are unconsolidated.
The carrying value of our non-marketable equity securities recorded to fair value on a non-recurring basis is adjusted for observable transactions for identical or similar investments of the same issuer or impairment.
The aggregate carrying value of long-term loan receivables and financed service contracts as of October 27, 2018 and July 28, 2018 was $3.4 billion and $3.6 billion, respectively.
The estimated fair value of long-term loan receivables and financed service contracts approximates their carrying value.
We use significant unobservable inputs in determining discounted cash flows to estimate the fair value of our long-term loan receivables and financed service contracts, and therefore they are categorized as Level 3.
As of October 27, 2018, we estimate that approximately $3 million of net derivative losses related to our cash flow hedges included in accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) will be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months when the underlying hedged item impacts earnings.
We hedge forecasted foreign currency transactions related to certain revenues, operating expenses and service cost of sales with currency options and forward contracts.
We enter into foreign exchange forward and option contracts to reduce the short-term effects of foreign currency fluctuations on assets and liabilities such as foreign currency receivables, including long-term customer financings, investments, and payables.
Gains and losses on the contracts are included in other income (loss), net, and substantially offset foreign exchange gains and losses from the remeasurement of intercompany balances or other current assets, investments, or liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the reporting entity.
Interest Rate Derivatives Designated as Fair Value Hedges, Long-Term Debt In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we did not enter into any interest rate swaps.
The gains and losses related to changes in the fair value of the interest rate swaps are included in interest expense and substantially offset changes in the fair value of the hedged portion of the underlying debt that are attributable to the changes in market interest rates.
For the periods presented, amounts excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness were not material for fair value, cash flow, and net investment hedges.
In addition, hedge ineffectiveness for fair value, cash flow, and net investment hedges was not material for any of the periods presented.
Certain of these purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers relate to arrangements to secure long-term pricing for certain product components for multi-year periods.
The 2005 Plan permits the granting of stock options, restricted stock, and restricted stock units ("RSUs"), the vesting of which may be performance-based or market-based along with the requisite service requirement, and stock appreciation rights to employees (including employee directors and officers), consultants of Cisco and its subsidiaries and affiliates, and non-employee directors of Cisco.
For the awards based on financial performance metrics or comparative market-based returns, generally 50% of the PRSUs are earned based on the average of annual operating cash flow and earnings per share goals established at the beginning of each fiscal year over a three-year performance period.
Impairment of that trust, or foreign regulatory actions taken in response to reports of certain intelligence gathering methods of the U.S. government, could affect the demand for our products from customers outside of the United States and could have an adverse effect on our operating results.
Although in many cases we use standard parts and components for our products, certain components are presently available only from a single source or limited sources, and a global economic downturn and related market uncertainty could negatively impact the availability of components from one or more of these sources, especially during times such as we have recently seen when there are supplier constraints based on labor and other actions taken during economic downturns.
While we intend to focus on managing our costs and expenses, over the long term, we also intend to invest in personnel and other resources related to our engineering, sales, service and marketing functions as we realign and dedicate resources on key priority and growth areas, such as Security and Applications, and we also intend to focus on maintaining leadership in Infrastructure Platforms and in Services.
Furthermore, particularly in the service provider market, rapid consolidation will lead to fewer customers, with the effect that loss of a major customer could have a material impact on results not anticipated in a customer marketplace composed of more numerous participants.
Our loan financing arrangements may include not only financing the acquisition of our products and services but also providing additional funds for other costs associated with network installation and integration of our products and services.
Our portfolio includes available-for-sale debt investments and equity investments, the values of which are subject to market price volatility to the extent unhedged.
Available-for-sale debt investments are recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax.
Securities classified as marketable equity are recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value with gains or losses recorded to interest and other income (loss), net.
The adoption of regulation of the Internet and Internet commerce could decrease demand for our products and, at the same time, increase the cost of selling our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition.
In particular, we believe that there may be future changes in U.S. telecommunications regulations that could slow the expansion of the service providers’ network infrastructures and materially adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition, including "net neutrality" rules to the extent they impact decisions on investment in network infrastructure.


item2.txt
In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we saw broad-based growth across the business and delivered solid revenue growth, margins and operating cash flow.
Our product revenue reflected solid growth in Infrastructure Platforms, Applications and Security, and we continued to make progress in the transition of our business model to increased software and subscriptions.
From a customer market standpoint, we experienced solid product revenue growth in the enterprise and service provider markets and, to a lesser extent, in the public sector and commercial markets.
We determine whether arrangements are distinct based on whether the customer can benefit from the product or service on its own or together with other resources that are readily available and whether our commitment to transfer the product or service to the customer is separately identifiable from other obligations in the contract.
We recognize revenue upon transfer of control of promised goods or services in a contract with a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products or services.
Term software licenses include multiple performance obligations where the term licenses are recognized upfront upon transfer of control, with the associated software maintenance revenue recognized ratably over the contract term as services and software updates are provided.
SaaS arrangements have one distinct performance obligation which is satisfied over time with revenue recognized ratably over the contract term as the customer consumes the services.
Revenue is allocated among these performance obligations in a manner that reflects the consideration that we expect to be entitled to for the promised goods or services based on standalone selling prices (SSP).
The reserve for future sales returns as of October 27, 2018 and July 28, 2018 was $112 million and $123 million, respectively, and was recorded as a reduction of our accounts receivable and revenue.
If an impairment is considered other than temporary based on condition (iii), the amount representing credit loss, defined as the difference between the present value of the cash flows expected to be collected and the amortized cost basis of the debt security, will be recognized in earnings, and the amount relating to all other factors will be recognized in other comprehensive income (OCI).
In estimating the amount and timing of cash flows expected to be collected, we consider all available information, including past events, current conditions, the remaining payment terms of the security, the financial condition of the issuer, expected defaults, and the value of underlying collateral.
Product revenue in the Americas segment increased by 6%, led by solid growth in the enterprise market and, to a lesser extent, in the commercial, service provider and public sector markets.
Product revenue in the APJC segment increased by 16%, with solid growth across each of the customer markets in this geographic segment.
Revenue in our Applications product category increased by 18%, or $216 million, with growth across all of the business.
Revenue in our Security product category increased 11%, or $66 million, driven by higher sales of identity and access, advance threat security and unified threat management products.
The decrease in revenue from our Other Products category was primarily driven by a decrease in revenue from Service Provider Video Software Solutions (“SPVSS”).
A charge of $122 million to product cost of sales recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 related to legal and indemnification settlements also contributed to the increase.
We believe that our strong cash and cash equivalents and investments position allows us to use our cash resources for strategic investments to gain access to new technologies, for acquisitions, for customer financing activities, for working capital needs, and for the repurchase of shares of common stock and payment of dividends as discussed below.
Our accounts receivable net, as of October 27, 2018 decreased by approximately 18%, as compared with the end of fiscal 2018, primarily due to the amount and timing of service billings, and also due to product billings being more linear in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018.
Our loan receivables include customer financing for purchases of our hardware, software and services and also may include additional funds for other costs associated with network installation and integration of our products and services.
Where we provide a guarantee, we defer the revenue associated with the channel partner and end-user financing arrangement in accordance with revenue recognition policies, or we record a liability for the fair value of the guarantees.


item3.txt
At any time, a sharp rise in market interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our available-for-sale debt investment portfolio.
We had no outstanding hedging instruments for our available-for-sale debt investments as of October 27, 2018.
As of October 27, 2018, a hypothetical 50 BPS increase or decrease in market interest rates would change the fair value of the fixed-rate debt, excluding the $6.8 billion of hedged debt, by a decrease or increase of approximately $0.5 billion, respectively.


part2.txt
Impairment of that trust, or foreign regulatory actions taken in response to reports of certain intelligence gathering methods of the U.S. government, could affect the demand for our products from customers outside of the United States and could have an adverse effect on our operating results.
In addition, to the extent that manufacturing issues and any related component shortages result in delayed shipments in the future, and particularly in periods in which our contract manufacturers are operating at higher levels of capacity, it is possible that revenue for a quarter could be adversely affected if such matters occur and are not remediated within the same quarter.
Sales to the service provider market have been characterized by large and sporadic purchases, especially relating to our router sales and sales of certain other Infrastructure Platforms and Applications products, in addition to longer sales cycles.
Product orders from the service provider market could continue to decline and, as has been the case in the past, such weakness could persist over extended periods of time given fluctuating market conditions.
Sales activity in this industry depends upon the stage of completion of expanding network infrastructures; the availability of funding; and the extent to which service providers are affected by regulatory, economic, and business conditions in the country of operations.
Weakness in orders from this industry, including as a result of any slowdown in capital expenditures by service providers (which may be more prevalent during a global economic downturn, or periods of economic, political or regulatory uncertainty), could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition.
For example, in the past, many of our service provider customers have been materially and adversely affected by slowdowns in the general economy, by overcapacity, by changes in the service provider market, by regulatory developments, and by constraints on capital availability, resulting in business failures and substantial reductions in spending and expansion plans.
These conditions have materially harmed our business and operating results in the past, and some of these or other conditions in the service provider market could affect our business and operating results in any future period.
Any inability to effectively manage these complicated relationships with customers, suppliers, and strategic alliance partners could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition and accordingly affect our chances of success.
Although in many cases we use standard parts and components for our products, certain components are presently available only from a single source or limited sources, and a global economic downturn and related market uncertainty could negatively impact the availability of components from one or more of these sources, especially during times such as we have recently seen when there are supplier constraints based on labor and other actions taken during economic downturns.
The process of developing new technology, including intent-based networking, more programmable, flexible and virtual networks, and technology related to other market transitions— such as security, digital transformation and IoT, and cloud— is complex and uncertain, and if we fail to accurately predict customers’ changing needs and emerging technological trends our business could be harmed.
We must commit significant resources, including the investments we have been making in our priorities to developing new products before knowing whether our investments will result in products the market will accept.
For example, if we do not introduce products related to network programmability, such as software-defined-networking products, in a timely fashion, or if product offerings in this market that ultimately succeed are based on technology, or an approach to technology, that differs from ours, such as, for example, networking products based on “white box” hardware, our business could be harmed.
In addition, our business could be adversely affected in periods surrounding our new product introductions if customers delay purchasing decisions to qualify or otherwise evaluate the new product offerings.
Because of the rapid introduction of new products and changing customer requirements related to matters such as cost-effectiveness and security, we believe that there could be performance problems with Internet communications in the future, which could receive a high degree of publicity and visibility.
Because we are a large supplier of networking products, our business, operating results, and financial condition may be materially adversely affected, regardless of whether or not these problems are due to the performance of our own products.
Furthermore, particularly in the service provider market, rapid consolidation will lead to fewer customers, with the effect that loss of a major customer could have a material impact on results not anticipated in a customer marketplace composed of more numerous participants.
For example, in the second quarter of fiscal 2017 we recorded a charge to product cost of sales of $125 million related to the expected remediation costs for anticipated failures in future periods of a widely-used component sourced from a third party which is included in several of our products, and in the second quarter of fiscal 2014 we recorded a pre-tax charge of $655 million related to the expected remediation costs for certain products sold in prior fiscal years containing memory components manufactured by a single supplier between 2005 and 2010.
Although these losses have not been material to date, future losses, if incurred, could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.
Additionally, to the degree that turmoil in the credit markets makes it more difficult for some customers to obtain financing, those customers’ ability to pay could be adversely impacted, which in turn could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition.
An increase in the value of the dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the United States where we sell in dollars and a weakened dollar could increase the cost of local operating expenses and procurement of raw materials to the extent that we must purchase components in foreign currencies.
Although we are not dependent on any individual patents or group of patents for particular segments of the business for which we compete, if we are unable to protect our proprietary rights to the totality of the features (including aspects of products protected other than by patent rights) in a market, we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the substantial expense, time, and effort required to create innovative products that have enabled us to be successful.
While counterfeiters often aim their sales at customers who might not have otherwise purchased our products due to lack of verifiability of origin and service, such counterfeit sales, to the extent they replace otherwise legitimate sales, could adversely affect our operating results.
The adoption of regulation of the Internet and Internet commerce could decrease demand for our products and, at the same time, increase the cost of selling our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition.
In particular, we believe that there may be future changes in U.S. telecommunications regulations that could slow the expansion of the service providers’ network infrastructures and materially adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition, including "net neutrality" rules to the extent they impact decisions on investment in network infrastructure.
Future changes in tariffs by regulatory agencies or application of tariff requirements to currently untariffed services could affect the sales of our products for certain classes of customers.
Changes in tariffs or failure by us to obtain timely approval of products could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition.
Vulnerabilities and critical security defects, prioritization errors in remedying vulnerabilities or security defects, failure of third-party providers to remedy vulnerabilities or security defects, or customers not deploying security releases or deciding not to upgrade products, services or solutions could result in claims of liability against us, damage our reputation or otherwise harm our business.


