item1.txt
Share-Based Compensation In March 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that impacts the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
The application of this accounting standard update did not have a material impact on the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements.
Reclassification of Certain Tax Effects from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income In February 2018, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that allows companies to reclassify from accumulated other comprehensive income ("AOCI") to retained earnings stranded tax effects resulting from the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Tax Act").
The most significant impact of this accounting standard update for Cisco is that it will require the remeasurement of investments that are not accounted for under the equity method at fair value at the end of each reporting period with the changes recorded to the income statement.
Credit Losses of Financial Instruments  In June 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that requires measurement and recognition of expected credit losses for financial assets held based on historical experience, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts that affect the collectibility of the reported amount.
Pro forma results of operations for the acquisitions completed during the nine months ended April 28, 2018 have not been presented because the effects of the acquisitions, individually and in the aggregate, were not material to the Company’s financial results.
As of April 28, 2018, this business had tangible assets of approximately $200 million (primarily comprised of accounts receivables, inventories and various other current and long-term assets) and net intangible assets and goodwill (based on relative fair value) of $300 million.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company extended the Fiscal 2017 Plan to include an additional $150 million of estimated additional pretax charges for employee severance and other one-time termination benefits.
The net realized losses related to the Company's available-for-sale investments included impairment charges of $26 million and $52 million for the three and nine months ended April 28, 2018, respectively.
For the three and nine months ended April 29, 2017, the net realized losses related to the Company's available-for-sale investments included impairment charges of $73 million.
As of April 28, 2018, for fixed income securities that were in unrealized loss positions, the Company has determined that (i) it does not have the intent to sell any of these investments and (ii) it is not more likely than not that it will be required to sell any of these investments before recovery of the entire amortized cost basis.
In addition, as of April 28, 2018, the Company anticipates that it will recover the entire amortized cost basis of such fixed income securities and has determined that no other-than-temporary impairments associated with credit losses were required to be recognized during the nine months ended April 28, 2018.
This determination was based on several factors, which include the length of time and extent to which fair value has been less than the cost basis, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, and the Company’s intent and ability to hold the publicly traded equity securities for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value.
The Company requires collateral equal to at least 102% of the fair market value of the loaned security and that the collateral be in the form of cash or liquid, high-quality assets.
The Company evaluates on an ongoing basis its investments in these privately held companies and its customer financings, and has determined that as of April 28, 2018, except as disclosed in Note 1, there were no significant variable interest entities required to be consolidated in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.
In addition, the Company has additional funding commitments of $212 million related to these investments, some of which are based on the achievement of certain agreed-upon milestones, and some of which are required to be funded on demand.
When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required or permitted to be either recorded or disclosed at fair value, the Company considers the principal or most advantageous market in which it would transact, and it also considers assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.
Significant unobservable inputs, which included financial metrics of comparable private and public companies, financial condition and near-term prospects of the investees, recent financing activities of the investees, and the investees’ capital structure as well as other economic variables, reflected the assumptions market participants would use in pricing these assets.
The carrying value of investments in privately held companies that were accounted for under the cost method was $851 million and $859 million as of April 28, 2018 and July 29, 2017, respectively.
The Company entered into interest rate swaps in prior periods with an aggregate notional amount of $6.75 billion designated as fair value hedges of certain of its fixed-rate senior notes.
As of April 28, 2018, the Company estimates that approximately $18 million of net derivative gains related to its cash flow hedges included in AOCI will be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months when the underlying hedged item impacts earnings.
The Company hedges forecasted foreign currency transactions related to certain operating expenses and service cost of sales with currency options and forward contracts.
The Company assesses effectiveness based on changes in total fair value of the derivatives.
The Company enters into foreign exchange forward and option contracts to reduce the short-term effects of foreign currency fluctuations on assets and liabilities such as foreign currency receivables, including long-term customer financings, investments, and payables.
As of April 28, 2018 and July 29, 2017, the Company did not have any outstanding interest rate derivatives related to its fixed income securities.
Interest Rate Derivatives Designated as Fair Value Hedges, Long-Term Debt In the nine months ended April 28, 2018, the Company did not enter into any interest rate swaps.
In prior fiscal years, the Company entered into interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges related to fixed-rate senior notes that are due in fiscal 2019 through 2025.
To manage its exposure to changes in the fair value of certain equity securities, the Company has periodically entered into equity derivatives that are designated as fair value hedges.
The Company purchases components from a variety of suppliers and uses several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for its products.
As of April 28, 2018, the Company estimated that future cash compensation expense of up to $370 million may be required to be recognized pursuant to the applicable business combination agreements.
During fiscal 2014, the Company acquired the remaining interests in Insieme, at which time the former noncontrolling interest holders became eligible to receive up to two milestone payments, which were determined using agreed-upon formulas based primarily on revenue for certain of Insieme’s products.
The Company recorded compensation expense of $9 million and $41 million during the three and nine months ended April 29, 2017, respectively, related to these milestone payments.
The Company also has certain funding commitments, primarily related to its investments in privately held companies and venture funds, some of which are based on the achievement of certain agreed-upon milestones, and some of which are required to be funded on demand.
In fiscal 2014, the Company recorded a charge to product cost of sales of $655 million resulting from failures related to products containing memory components manufactured by a single supplier between 2005 and 2010.
During the second quarter of fiscal 2017, the Company further reduced the liability by $141 million to reflect lower than expected defects, actual usage history, and estimated lower future remediation costs as more of the impacted products age and near the end of the support period covered by the remediation program.
In addition, during the second quarter of fiscal 2017, the Company recorded a charge to product cost of sales of $125 million related to the expected remediation costs for anticipated failures in future periods of a widely-used component sourced from a third party which is included in several of the Company’s products.
The Company has been asked to indemnify certain of the Company’s service provider customers that have been subject to patent infringement claims asserted by Sprint Communications Company, L.P. in federal court in Kansas and Delaware.
Sprint alleges that the service provider customers infringed Sprint’s patents by offering VoIP telephone services utilizing products provided by the Company generally in combination with those of other manufacturers.
For the nine months ended April 28, 2018, the Company recorded legal and indemnification settlement charges of $127 million to product cost of sales in relation to these matters.
The Company repurchased approximately 16 million shares for each of the nine months ended April 28, 2018 and April 29, 2017, or $541 million and $497 million of common stock, respectively, in settlement of employee tax withholding obligations due upon the vesting of restricted stock or stock units.
In addition, starting November 19, 2013, shares withheld by the Company from an award other than a stock option or stock appreciation right to satisfy withholding tax liabilities resulting from such award will again be available for issuance, based on the fungible share ratio in effect on the date of grant.
The 2005 Plan permits the granting of stock options, restricted stock, and restricted stock units ("RSUs"), the vesting of which may be performance-based or market-based along with the requisite service requirement, and stock appreciation rights to employees (including employee directors and officers), consultants of the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates, and non-employee directors of the Company.
Employees may purchase a limited number of shares of the Company’s stock at a discount of up to 15% of the lesser of the market value at the beginning of the offering period or the end of each 6-month purchase period.
The Company issued 12 million shares under the Purchase Plan during each of the nine months ended April 28, 2018 and April 29, 2017.
During the nine months ended April 28, 2018, the Company recorded a provisional tax expense of $11.1 billion related to the Tax Act, comprised of $8.9 billion of U.S. transition tax, $1.2 billion of foreign withholding tax (discussed above), and $1.0 billion re-measurement of net DTA.
The Company’s total cash and cash equivalents and investments held by various foreign subsidiaries were $6.9 billion and $67.5 billion as of April 28, 2018 and July 29, 2017, respectively, and the remaining $47.5 billion and $3.0 billion at the respective period ends were available in the United States.
In addition, reports of certain intelligence gathering methods of the U.S. government could affect customers’ perception of the products of IT companies which design and manufacture products in the United States.
Our portfolio includes fixed income securities and equity investments in publicly traded companies, the values of which are subject to market price volatility to the extent unhedged.
In particular, we believe that there may be future changes in U.S. telecommunications regulations that could slow the expansion of the service providers’ network infrastructures and materially adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition, including "net neutrality" rules to the extent they impact decisions on investment in network infrastructure.


item2.txt
Our product revenue reflected growth in Infrastructure Platforms, Applications and Security, and we continued to make progress in the transition of our business model to increased software and subscriptions.
From a product category perspective, the product revenue increase of 5% was driven by a 2% product revenue increase in Infrastructure Platforms and solid product revenue growth in Applications and Security, which grew by 19% and 11%, respectively.
If an impairment is considered other than temporary based on condition (iii), the amount representing credit loss, defined as the difference between the present value of the cash flows expected to be collected and the amortized cost basis of the debt security, will be recognized in earnings, and the amount relating to all other factors will be recognized in other comprehensive income (OCI).
For publicly traded equity securities, we consider various factors in determining whether we should recognize an impairment charge, including the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than our cost basis, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, and our intent and ability to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value.
Product revenue in the Americas segment increased by 1%, led by solid growth in the commercial market, partially offset by product revenue declines in the service provider and enterprise markets.
The increase in product revenue in the Americas segment was led by solid growth in the commercial market and, to a lesser extent, growth in the public sector market.
These increases were partially offset by a product revenue decline in the enterprise market.
Product revenue in the EMEA segment increased by 11%, with solid growth across each of our customer markets.
The increase in product revenue in the EMEA segment of 2% was driven by solid growth in the commercial and public sector markets.
These increases were partially offset by a product revenue decline in the service provider market.
The product revenue increase was led by solid growth in the commercial and enterprise markets.
These increases were partially offset by product revenue declines in the service provider and public sector markets.
Product revenue in the APJC segment was flat as product revenue growth in the commercial and enterprise markets was offset by product revenue declines in the service provider and public sector markets.
Revenue from the Infrastructure Platforms product category was flat as the increases in sales of switching, data center and wireless products were offset by the decreased revenue in routing.
Revenue in our Applications product category increased by 19%, or $209 million, driven by increased revenue in Telepresence endpoints, unified communications infrastructure and analytics from our fiscal 2017 acquisition of AppDynamics.
Revenue in our Applications product category increased by 10%, or $344 million, with analytics from our fiscal 2017 acquisition of AppDynamics driving the majority of the increase along with revenue increases across our collaboration offerings.
Revenue in our Security product category increased 11%, or $56 million, driven by higher sales of unified threat management, advanced threat and web security products.
We continue to increase the amount of deferred revenue and the proportion of recurring revenue related to our Security product category.
Revenue in our Security product category increased 8%, or $131 million, driven by higher sales of unified threat management, web security and advanced threat security products.
The decrease in revenue from our Other Products category for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018 as compared to the corresponding periods of fiscal 2017 was primarily driven by a decrease in revenue from Service Provider Video Software and Solutions (“SPVSS”).
Product gross margin decreased by 1.2 percentage points due largely to unfavorable impacts from product pricing and a charge of $127 million to product cost of sales recorded in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 related to legal and indemnification settlements, partially offset by productivity benefits and a favorable product mix.
Sales and marketing expenses increased in the third quarter of fiscal 2018, as compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017, due to increases in headcount-related expenses, discretionary spending and contracted services and, to a lesser extent, higher share-based compensation expense and higher acquisition-related costs.
Sales and marketing expenses were flat in the first nine months of fiscal 2018, as compared with the first nine months of fiscal 2017, as the increases in headcount-related expenses, share-based compensation expense and acquisition-related costs substantially offset decreases in contracted services and discretionary spending.
The change in total net gains (losses) on available-for-sale investments was primarily attributable to higher realized gains on publicly traded equity securities and lower impairment charges on publicly traded equity securities, partially offset by higher realized losses on fixed income securities as a result of market conditions and the timing of sales of these securities.
The change in total net gains (losses) on available-for-sale investments was primarily attributable to higher realized gains on publicly traded equity securities and lower impairment charges on publicly traded equity securities, partially offset by higher realized losses on fixed income securities as a result of market conditions and the timing of sales of these securities.
Deferred product revenue increased 11% primarily due to increased deferrals related to recurring software and subscription offers.


part2.txt
Impairment of that trust, or foreign regulatory actions taken in response to reports of certain intelligence gathering methods of the U.S. government, could affect the demand for our products from customers outside of the United States and could have an adverse effect on our operating results.
In addition, to the extent that manufacturing issues and any related component shortages result in delayed shipments in the future, and particularly in periods in which our contract manufacturers are operating at higher levels of capacity, it is possible that revenue for a quarter could be adversely affected if such matters occur and are not remediated within the same quarter.
Sales to the service provider market have been characterized by large and sporadic purchases, especially relating to our router sales and sales of certain other Infrastructure Platforms and Applications products, in addition to longer sales cycles.
Product orders from the service provider market could continue to decline and, as has been the case in the past, such weakness could persist over extended periods of time given fluctuating market conditions.
Sales activity in this industry depends upon the stage of completion of expanding network infrastructures; the availability of funding; and the extent to which service providers are affected by regulatory, economic, and business conditions in the country of operations.
Weakness in orders from this industry, including as a result of any slowdown in capital expenditures by service providers (which may be more prevalent during a global economic downturn, or periods of economic, political or regulatory uncertainty), could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition.
For example, in the past, many of our service provider customers have been materially and adversely affected by slowdowns in the general economy, by overcapacity, by changes in the service provider market, by regulatory developments, and by constraints on capital availability, resulting in business failures and substantial reductions in spending and expansion plans.
These conditions have materially harmed our business and operating results in the past, and some of these or other conditions in the service provider market could affect our business and operating results in any future period.
Any inability to effectively manage these complicated relationships with customers, suppliers, and strategic alliance partners could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition and accordingly affect our chances of success.
Although in many cases we use standard parts and components for our products, certain components are presently available only from a single source or limited sources, and a global economic downturn and related market uncertainty could negatively impact the availability of components from one or more of these sources, especially during times such as we have recently seen when there are supplier constraints based on labor and other actions taken during economic downturns.
The process of developing new technology, including intent-based networking, more programmable, flexible and virtual networks, and technology related to other market transitions— such as security, digital transformation and IoT, and cloud— is complex and uncertain, and if we fail to accurately predict customers’ changing needs and emerging technological trends our business could be harmed.
For example, if we do not introduce products related to network programmability, such as software-defined-networking products, in a timely fashion, or if product offerings in this market that ultimately succeed are based on technology, or an approach to technology, that differs from ours, such as, for example, networking products based on “white box” hardware, our business could be harmed.
In addition, our business could be adversely affected in periods surrounding our new product introductions if customers delay purchasing decisions to qualify or otherwise evaluate the new product offerings.
Over the last few years, we have been transforming our business to move from selling individual products and services to selling products and services integrated into architectures and solutions, and we are seeking to meet the evolving needs of customers which include offering our products and solutions in the manner in which customers wish to consume them.
Furthermore, particularly in the service provider market, rapid consolidation will lead to fewer customers, with the effect that loss of a major customer could have a material impact on results not anticipated in a customer marketplace composed of more numerous participants.
For example, in the second quarter of fiscal 2017 we recorded a charge to product cost of sales of $125 million related to the expected remediation costs for anticipated failures in future periods of a widely-used component sourced from a third party which is included in several of our products, and in the second quarter of fiscal 2014 we recorded a pre-tax charge of $655 million related to the expected remediation costs for certain products sold in prior fiscal years containing memory components manufactured by a single supplier between 2005 and 2010.
Additionally, to the degree that turmoil in the credit markets makes it more difficult for some customers to obtain financing, those customers’ ability to pay could be adversely impacted, which in turn could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition.
An increase in the value of the dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the United States where we sell in dollars and a weakened dollar could increase the cost of local operating expenses and procurement of raw materials to the extent that we must purchase components in foreign currencies.
Although we are not dependent on any individual patents or group of patents for particular segments of the business for which we compete, if we are unable to protect our proprietary rights to the totality of the features (including aspects of products protected other than by patent rights) in a market, we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the substantial expense, time, and effort required to create innovative products that have enabled us to be successful.
While counterfeiters often aim their sales at customers who might not have otherwise purchased our products due to lack of verifiability of origin and service, such counterfeit sales, to the extent they replace otherwise legitimate sales, could adversely affect our operating results.
The adoption of regulation of the Internet and Internet commerce could decrease demand for our products and, at the same time, increase the cost of selling our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition.
In particular, we believe that there may be future changes in U.S. telecommunications regulations that could slow the expansion of the service providers’ network infrastructures and materially adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition, including "net neutrality" rules to the extent they impact decisions on investment in network infrastructure.
Future changes in tariffs by regulatory agencies or application of tariff requirements to currently untariffed services could affect the sales of our products for certain classes of customers.
Changes in tariffs or failure by us to obtain timely approval of products could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition.
Despite our implementation of network security measures, the products and services we sell to customers, and our servers, data centers and the cloud-based solutions on which our data, and data of our customers, suppliers and business partners are stored, are vulnerable to cyber-attacks, data protection breaches, computer viruses, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering or human error.
Any such event could compromise our networks or those of our customers, and the information stored on our networks or those of our customers could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen, which could subject us to liability to our customers, suppliers, business partners and others, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition and may cause damage to our reputation.
Breaches of network security in our customers’ networks, or in cloud-based services provided by or enabled by us, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to a vulnerability in our products or services, could result in claims of liability against us, damage our reputation or otherwise harm our business.
In addition, the continued threat of terrorism and heightened security and military action in response to this threat, or any future acts of terrorism, may cause further disruptions to the economies of the United States and other countries and create further uncertainties or otherwise materially harm our business, operating results, and financial condition.
Vulnerabilities and critical security defects, prioritization errors in remedying vulnerabilities or security defects, failure of third-party providers to remedy vulnerabilities or security defects, or customers not deploying security releases or deciding not to upgrade products, services or solutions could result in claims of liability against us, damage our reputation or otherwise harm our business.


