item1.txt
As a result of the modification, 0.8 million awards vested during the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, which resulted in approximately $24.9 million of stock-based compensation expense recognized for the three months ended November 30, 2017.
During the three months ended November 30, 2017, the Company’s five largest customers accounted for approximately 51% of its net revenue and 74 customers accounted for approximately 90% of its net revenue.
The estimated fair values of the Company’s publicly traded debt, including the 8.250%, 5.625% and 4.700% senior notes, were approximately $405.6 million, $431.2 million and $525.3 million, respectively, as of November 30, 2017.
The estimated fair value of the Company’s private debt, the 4.900% senior notes, was approximately $311.7 million, as of November 30, 2017.
The Company does not record a servicing asset or liability on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as the Company estimates that the fee it receives to service these receivables approximates the fair market compensation to provide the servicing activities.
Accordingly, the special purpose entities associated with these asset-backed securitization programs are included in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
(3) Recorded initially at fair value as prepaid expenses and other current assets on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and are valued using unobservable inputs (Level 3 inputs), primarily discounted cash flows, and due to their credit quality and short-term maturity the fair values approximated book values.
(1) There is no tax benefit (expense) related to the foreign currency translation adjustment components of AOCI, including reclassification adjustments, for the three months ended November 30, 2017.
(2) $3.5 million of AOCI reclassified into earnings during the three months ended November 30, 2017 for derivative instruments was classified as a reduction of income tax expense.
(3) There is no tax benefit (expense) related to the available for sale securities components of AOCI, including reclassification adjustments, for the three months ended November 30, 2017.
In addition to derivatives that are designated as hedging instruments and qualify for hedge accounting, the Company also enters into forward contracts to economically hedge transactional exposure associated with commitments arising from trade accounts receivable, trade accounts payable, fixed purchase obligations and intercompany transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the respective operating entity.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2016, the Company entered into forward starting swap transactions to hedge the fixed interest rate payments for an anticipated debt issuance.
Changes in the fair value of the forward starting swap transactions are recorded on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as a component of AOCI.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2016, the Company entered into interest rate swap transactions to hedge the variable interest rate payments for the Term Loan Facility.
Changes in the fair value of the interest rate swap transactions are recorded on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as a component of AOCI.
On September 1, 2017, the Company completed the acquisition of True-Tech Corporation (“True-Tech”) for approximately $95.9 million in cash, which remains subject to adjustment based on review of the actual net assets of the acquisition as of the closing date.
During fiscal year 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued an accounting standard which will supersede existing revenue recognition guidance under current U.S. GAAP.
The accounting standard is effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.
During fiscal year 2016, the FASB issued a new accounting standard to address certain aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of financial instruments.
This guidance is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.
Early application is permitted only for certain provisions, and the update must be applied by means of a cumulative-effect adjustment to the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption and applied prospectively to equity investments that exist as of the date of adoption of the standard.
During fiscal year 2016, the FASB issued a new accounting standard revising lease accounting.
This guidance is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020.
During fiscal year 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard, which replaces the existing incurred loss impairment methodology with a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates.
This guidance is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021 and early adoption is permitted beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020.
During fiscal year 2016, the FASB issued a new accounting standard to address the presentation of certain transactions within the statement of cash flows with the objective of reducing the existing diversity in practice.
This guidance is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and early adoption is permitted.
During fiscal year 2017, the FASB issued a new accounting standard to improve the accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
This guidance is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and early adoption is permitted.
During fiscal year 2017, the FASB issued a new accounting standard to simplify how an entity is required to test goodwill for impairment by eliminating the requirement to calculate the implied fair value of goodwill (i.e., Step 2 of the current goodwill impairment test) to measure a goodwill impairment charge.
This guidance is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021, with early application permitted.
During fiscal year 2017, the FASB issued a new accounting standard which clarifies the scope of accounting for asset derecognition and adds further guidance for recognizing gains and losses from the transfer of non-financial assets in contracts with non-customers.
This guidance is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 coincident with the new revenue recognition guidance.
During fiscal year 2017, the FASB issued a new accounting standard to improve the financial reporting of hedging relationships to better portray the economic results of an entity’s risk management activities by simplifying the application of hedge accounting and improving the related disclosures in its financial statements.
This guidance is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020, with early adoption permitted.


item2.txt
During the three months ended November 30, 2017, we recognized $7.4 million of expenses, net of insurance proceeds of $10.3 million.
(2)  During the three months ended August 31, 2017, the decrease in days in accounts receivable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to the timing of sales and collections activity.
(3)  During the three months ended November 30, 2017 and August 31, 2017, the increase in days in accounts payable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to higher materials purchases during the quarter due to increased demand in the mobility business as well as the timing of purchases and cash payments from purchases during the quarter.
During the three months ended May 31, 2017, the increase in days in accounts payable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to the timing of purchases and cash payments from purchases during the quarter.
Net revenue increased 9.4% to $5.6 billion during the three months ended November 30, 2017, compared to $5.1 billion during the three months ended November 30, 2016.
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased to $293.1 million (5.2% of net revenue) during the three months ended November 30, 2017, compared to $214.1 million (4.2% of net revenue) during the three months ended November 30, 2016.
During the three months ended November 30, 2017, we recognized an additional $32.4 million of stock-based compensation expense due to the modification of certain performance-based restricted stock awards and a one-time cash-settled award while the three months ended November 30, 2016 included a $21.0 million reversal of stock-based compensation expense due to decreased expectations for the vesting of certain performance-based restricted stock awards.
Research and development expenses remained relatively consistent at $9.1 million (0.2% of net revenue) during the three months ended November 30, 2017, compared to $7.6 million (0.2% of net revenue) during the three months ended November 30, 2016.
Amortization of intangibles increased to $10.0 million during the three months ended November 30, 2017, compared to $8.3 million during the three months ended November 30, 2016, primarily due to amortization from intangible assets related to the Lewis Engineering and True-Tech acquisitions that occurred in the third quarter of fiscal year 2017 and the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, respectively.
(1) Includes $5.9 million and $7.4 million recorded in the EMS segment, $4.6 million and $11.5 million recorded in the DMS segment and $0.9 million and $17.0 million of non-allocated charges for the three months ended November 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
Other expense increased to $5.9 million for the three months ended November 30, 2017 compared to $4.7 million for the three months ended November 30, 2016.
Interest income increased to $3.8 million during the three months ended November 30, 2017, compared to $2.5 million during the three months ended November 30, 2016, due to increased investments.
Management believes that the non-GAAP “core” financial measures set forth below are useful to facilitate evaluating the past and future performance of our ongoing manufacturing operations over multiple periods on a comparable basis by excluding the effects of the amortization of intangibles, stock-based compensation expense and related charges, restructuring and related charges, distressed customer charges, acquisition costs and certain purchase accounting adjustments, loss on disposal of subsidiaries, settlement of receivables and related charges, impairment of notes receivable and related charges, goodwill impairment charges, business interruption and impairment charges, net, other than temporary impairment on securities, income (loss) from discontinued operations, gain (loss) on sale of discontinued operations and certain other expenses, net of tax and certain deferred tax valuation allowance charges.
(1)  Charges, net of insurance proceeds of $10.3 million, relate to business interruptions and asset impairment costs associated with damage from Hurricane Maria, which impacted our operations in Cayey, Puerto Rico.
As discussed in Note 12 – “Business Acquisitions” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, we completed one acquisition during the three months ended November 30, 2017 which was accounted for as a business combination using the acquisition method of accounting.
We believe that our level of liquidity sources, which includes available borrowings under our revolving credit facilities, additional proceeds available under our asset-backed securitization programs and under our uncommitted trade accounts receivable sale programs, cash on hand, funds provided by operations and the access to the capital markets, will be adequate to fund our capital expenditures, the payment of any declared quarterly dividends, share repurchases, any potential acquisitions and our working capital requirements for the next 12 months.
During the three months ended November 30, 2017, we sold $1.1 billion of trade accounts receivable under these programs and we received cash proceeds of $1.1 billion.
As of November 30, 2017, we had up to $543.9 million in available liquidity under our trade accounts receivable sale programs.
Net cash used in operating activities during the three months ended November 30, 2017 was primarily due to higher inventories, prepaid expenses and other current assets and accounts receivable, partially offset by higher accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities.
The increase in accounts receivable is primarily driven by the timing of sales and cash collections activity as well as higher sales levels.
The increase in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities was primarily due to an increase in capital expenditures and materials purchases due to increased demand in the mobility business and the timing of purchases and cash payments.


item4.txt
10% of the total assets of the Registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.
The Registrant agrees to furnish a copy of any such instrument to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


part2.txt
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  
Defaults Upon Senior Securities  
The Registrant agrees to furnish a copy of any such instrument to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


