item1.txt
Charges, net of insurance proceeds of $6.1 million for the three months ended February 28, 2018, and $2.9 million and $16.4 million for the six months ended February 28, 2019 and 2018, respectively, relate to business interruption and asset impairment costs associated with damage from Hurricane Maria, which impacted our operations in Cayey, Puerto Rico.
The Company regularly sells designated pools of trade accounts receivable under a foreign asset-backed securitization program, a North American asset-back securitization program and uncommitted trade accounts receivable sale programs (collectively referred to herein as the “programs”).
The Company does not record a servicing asset or liability on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as the Company estimates that the fee it receives to service these receivables approximates the fair market compensation to provide the servicing activities.
Transfers of the receivables under the programs are accounted for as sales and, accordingly, net receivables sold under the programs are excluded from accounts receivable on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and are reflected as cash provided by operating activities on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
The adoption of Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-15 (“ASU 2016-15”) described in Note 14, New Accounting Guidance, resulted in a reclassification of cash flows from operating activities to investing activities in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for cash receipts related to collections on the deferred purchase price receivable (i.e. beneficial interest) on asset-backed securitization transactions.
The Company continuously sells designated pools of trade accounts receivable under its foreign asset-backed securitization program to a special purpose entity, which in turn sells certain of the receivables to an unaffiliated financial institution and a conduit administered by an unaffiliated financial institution on a monthly basis.
As of October 1, 2018, approximately $734.2 million of accounts receivable sold under the foreign asset-backed securitization program was exchanged for the outstanding deferred purchase price receivable of $335.5 million.
Accordingly, the special purpose entity associated with the foreign asset-backed securitization program is included in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The North American asset-backed securitization program was terminated on October 9, 2018 and as of this date approximately $500.0 million of accounts receivable sold under the program was exchanged for the outstanding deferred purchase price receivable of $300.0 million and $200.0 million of cash.
On November 27, 2018, the Company entered into a new North American asset-backed securitization program.
The Company continuously sells designated pools of trade accounts receivable under its new North American asset-backed securitization program to a special purpose entity, which in turn sells certain of the receivables to conduits administered by unaffiliated financial institutions on a monthly basis.
The special purpose entity in the North American asset-backed securitization program is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company and is included in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Recorded initially at fair value as prepaid expenses and other current assets on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and are valued using unobservable inputs (Level 3 inputs), primarily discounted cash flows, and due to their credit quality and short-term maturity the fair values approximated book values.
As of February 28, 2019 and August 31, 2018, the Company was in compliance with all covenants under the asset-backed securitization programs.
The Company expects to reclassify $5.9 million into earnings during the next twelve months, which will primarily be classified as a component of cost of revenue.
In addition to derivatives that are designated as hedging instruments and qualify for hedge accounting, the Company also enters into forward contracts to economically hedge transactional exposure associated with commitments arising from trade accounts receivable, trade accounts payable, fixed purchase obligations and intercompany transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the respective operating entity.
For the three months and six months ended February 28, 2019, the Company recognized $57.1 million and $52.6 million, respectively, of foreign currency losses in cost of revenue, which are offset by the gains from the forward foreign exchange contracts.
During the three months and six months ended February 28, 2018, the Company recognized $41.7 million and $35.5 million, respectively, of foreign currency losses in cost of revenue, which are offset by the gains from the forward foreign exchange contracts.
During fiscal year 2018, the Company entered into interest rate swap transactions to hedge the variable interest rate payments for the $350.0 million Term Loan Facility which expires on August 24, 2020 (the “2018 Term Loan Facility”).
On February 25, 2019, under the terms of the Framework Agreement, the Company completed the initial closing of its acquisition of certain assets of JJMD for approximately $80.8 million in cash, which remains subject to certain post-closing adjustments.
During fiscal year 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued an accounting standard, which is a comprehensive new revenue recognition model that requires a company to recognize revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to a customer at an amount that reflects the consideration it expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services.
The accounting standard became effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.
During fiscal year 2016, the FASB issued a new accounting standard to address the presentation of certain transactions within the statement of cash flows with the objective of reducing the existing diversity in practice.
This standard was adopted on September 1, 2018 on a retrospective basis and resulted in a reclassification of cash flows from operating activities to investing activities in the Company’s Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for cash receipts related to collections on the deferred purchase price receivable on asset-backed securitization transactions.
During fiscal year 2017, the FASB issued a new accounting standard to improve the accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
The Company adopted the standard on September 1, 2018 on a retrospective basis which results in reclassifications for the service cost component of net periodic benefit cost from selling, general and administrative expense to cost of revenue and for the other components from selling, general and administrative expense to other expense.
The Company is currently evaluating practical expedients and accounting policy elections, and assessing overall impacts this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
During fiscal year 2018, the FASB issued a new accounting standard which aligns the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software.
The new standard is a comprehensive new revenue recognition model that requires the Company to recognize revenue in a manner which depicts the transfer of goods or services to its customers at an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services.
Prior to the adoption of the new standard, the Company recognized substantially all of its revenue from contracts with customers at a point in time, which was generally when the goods were shipped to or received by the customer, title and risk of ownership had passed, the price to the buyer was fixed or determinable and collectability was reasonably assured (net of estimated returns).
Under the new standard, the Company will recognize revenue over time for the majority of its contracts with customers which will result in revenue for those customers being recognized earlier than under the previous guidance.
Additionally, the new standard impacts the Company’s accounting for certain fulfillment costs, which include upfront costs to prepare for manufacturing activities that are expected to be recovered.
Under the new standard, such upfront costs will be recognized as an asset and amortized on a systematic basis consistent with the pattern of the transfer of control of the products or services to which to the asset relates.
The Company records an asset when revenue is recognized prior to invoicing a customer (“contract assets”) while a liability is recognized when a customer pays an invoice prior to the Company transferring control of the goods or services (“contract liabilities”).
No impairment costs related to contract assets were recognized during the six months ended February 28, 2019.
Revenue recognized during the six months ended February 28, 2019 that was included in the contract liability balance as of September 1, 2018 was $267.0 million.
The Company capitalizes costs incurred to fulfill its contracts that i) relate directly to the contract or anticipated contracts, ii) are expected to generate or enhance the Company’s resources that will be used to satisfy the performance obligation under the contract, and iii) are expected to be recovered through revenue generated from the contract.


item2.txt
During the three months ended November 30, 2018, the increase in days in accounts receivable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to an increase in accounts receivable primarily driven by the amended and new securitization programs and higher sales and timing of collections.
During the three months ended February 28, 2019, the decrease in days in accounts payable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to lower materials purchases during the quarter and timing of purchases and cash payments for purchases during the quarter.
During the three months ended August 31, 2018, the increase in days in accounts payable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to higher materials purchases during the quarter and the timing of purchases and cash payments for purchases during the quarter.
Net revenue increased during the three months ended February 28, 2019, compared to the three months ended February 28, 2018.
Net revenue increased during the six months ended February 28, 2019, compared to the six months ended February 28, 2018.
The increase is partially offset by a 3% decrease in revenue from customers within our mobility business as a result of decreased end user product demand.
Gross profit decreased as a percent of net revenue during the six months ended February 28, 2019, compared to the six months ended February 28, 2018, primarily due to weakness in the capital equipment business and ramp costs associated with new business awards in our EMS segment.
The increase is partially offset by an additional $32.4 million of stock-based compensation expense recognized during the six months ended February 28, 2018 as a result of the one-time modification of certain performance-based restricted stock unit awards and a one-time cash-settled award.
Other expense increased for the three months ended February 28, 2019, compared to the three months ended February 28, 2018, primarily due to additional fees associated with the utilization of the foreign and North American asset-backed securitization programs.
The effective tax rate decreased for the three months and six months ended February 28, 2019 compared to the three months and six months ended February 28, 2018, primarily due to $30.9 million of tax expense from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (“Tax Act”) for the three months and six months ended February 28, 2018, partially offset by $16.1 million of income tax benefits from the lapse of statute in a non-U.S. jurisdiction for the three months and six months ended February 28, 2018.
Charges, net of insurance proceeds of $6.1 million for the three months ended February 28, 2018, and $2.9 million and $16.4 million for the six months ended February 28, 2019 and 2018, respectively, relate to business interruptions and asset impairment costs associated with damage from Hurricane Maria, which impacted our operations in Cayey, Puerto Rico.
We continuously sell designated pools of trade accounts receivable under our foreign asset-backed securitization program to a special purpose entity, which in turn sells certain of the receivables to an unaffiliated financial institution and a conduit administered by an unaffiliated financial institution on a monthly basis.
As of October 1, 2018, approximately $734.2 million of accounts receivable sold under the foreign asset-backed securitization program was exchanged for the outstanding deferred purchase price receivable of $335.5 million.
The North American asset-backed securitization program was terminated on October 9, 2018 and as of this date approximately $500.0 million of accounts receivable sold under the program was exchanged for the outstanding deferred purchase price receivable of $300.0 million and $200.0 million of cash.
We continuously sell designated pools of trade accounts receivable under our new North American asset-backed securitization program to a special purpose entity, which in turn sells certain of the receivables to conduits administered by unaffiliated financial institutions on a monthly basis.
In connection with our asset-backed securitization programs, during the three months and six months ended February 28, 2019, we sold $1.1 billion and $1.8 billion, respectively, of trade accounts receivable and we received cash proceeds of $1.1 billion and $1.8 billion, respectively.
During the three months and six months ended February 28, 2019, we sold $1.7 billion and $3.6 billion, respectively, of trade accounts receivable under these programs and we received cash proceeds of $1.7 billion and $3.5 billion, respectively.
Net cash provided by operating activities during the six months ended February 28, 2019 was primarily due to non-cash expenses, increased accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities and decreased inventories, partially offset by increased contract assets and accounts receivable.
The increase in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities is primarily due to the timing of collections on accounts receivable sold under the securitization programs and the timing of purchases and cash payments.
The decrease in inventories is primarily due to the adoption of ASU 2014-09 and the reclassification to contract assets for revenue recognized for over time customers, partially offset by an increase to support expected sales levels in the second half of fiscal year 2019.
The increase in accounts receivable is primarily driven by the amended and new securitization programs and higher sales and timing of collections.
Net cash used in investing activities during the six months ended February 28, 2019 consisted primarily of capital expenditures principally to support ongoing business in the DMS and EMS segments and for assets acquired in connection with the initial closing of the acquisition of JJMD at the end of February, partially offset by proceeds and advances from the sale of property, plant and equipment and cash receipts on sold receivables under the asset-backed securitization programs.


part2.txt
XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language) Filed Electronically with this report.


