item1.txt
As a result of the modification, 0.8 million awards vested during the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, which resulted in approximately $24.9 million of stock-based compensation expense recognized.
During the nine months ended May 31, 2018, the Company’s five largest customers accounted for approximately 50% of its net revenue and 77 customers accounted for approximately 90% of its net revenue.
Segment income does not include amortization of intangibles, stock-based compensation expense and related charges, restructuring and related charges, distressed customer charges, acquisition costs and certain purchase accounting adjustments, loss on disposal of subsidiaries, settlement of receivables and related charges, impairment of notes receivable and related charges, goodwill impairment charges, business interruption and impairment charges, net, income (loss) from discontinued operations, gain (loss) on sale of discontinued operations, other expense, interest income, interest expense, income tax expense or adjustment for net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests.
(3)  During the second quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company issued $500.0 million of publicly registered 3.950% Senior Notes due 2028 (the “3.950% Senior Notes”).
The net proceeds from the offering were used for general corporate purposes, including to redeem $400.0 million of the Company’s outstanding 8.250% Senior Notes due 2018 and pay related costs and a “make-whole” premium.
The estimated fair values of the Company’s publicly traded debt, including the 5.625%, 4.700% and 3.950% Senior Notes, were approximately $419.5 million, $514.1 million and $481.7 million, respectively, as of May 31, 2018.
The estimated fair value of the Company’s private debt, the 4.900% Senior Notes, was approximately $306.5 million, as of May 31, 2018.
This fair value estimate is based on the Company’s indicative borrowing cost derived from discounted cash flows (Level 3 criteria).
The Company regularly sells designated pools of trade accounts receivable under two asset-backed securitization programs and seven uncommitted trade accounts receivable sale programs (collectively referred to herein as the “programs”).
The Company does not record a servicing asset or liability on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as the Company estimates that the fee it receives to service these receivables approximates the fair market compensation to provide the servicing activities.
Transfers of the receivables under the programs are accounted for as sales and, accordingly, net receivables sold under the programs are excluded from accounts receivable on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and are reflected as cash provided by operating activities on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
Accordingly, the special purpose entities associated with these asset-backed securitization programs are included in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
(3)  Recorded initially at fair value as prepaid expenses and other current assets on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and are valued using unobservable inputs (Level 3 inputs), primarily discounted cash flows, and due to their credit quality and short-term maturity the fair values approximated book values.
(1)  There is no tax benefit (expense) related to the foreign currency translation adjustment components of AOCI, including reclassification adjustments, for the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018.
(2)  $10.0 million of AOCI reclassified into earnings during the nine months ended May 31, 2018 for derivative instruments was classified as a reduction of income tax expense.
(3)  There is no tax benefit (expense) related to the available for sale securities components of AOCI, including reclassification adjustments, for the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018.
In addition to derivatives that are designated as hedging instruments and qualify for hedge accounting, the Company also enters into forward contracts to economically hedge transactional exposure associated with commitments arising from trade accounts receivable, trade accounts payable, fixed purchase obligations and intercompany transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the respective operating entity.
During the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018, the Company recognized $27.2 million and $59.8 million, respectively, in foreign currency losses, which were offset by $41.2 million and $92.2 million of gains, respectively, from related forward contracts.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2016, the Company entered into forward interest rate swap transactions to hedge the fixed interest rate payments for an anticipated debt issuance, which was the issuance of the 3.950% Senior Notes.
The effective portion of the swaps is recorded in the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets as a component of AOCI and is amortized as a reduction to interest expense in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Operations through January 2028.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2016, the Company entered into interest rate swap transactions to hedge the variable interest rate payments for the Term Loan Facility.
Changes in the fair value of the interest rate swap transactions are recorded in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as a component of AOCI.
During fiscal year 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued an accounting standard which will supersede existing revenue recognition guidance under current U.S. GAAP.
The new standard is a comprehensive new revenue recognition model that requires a company to recognize revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to a customer at an amount that reflects the consideration it expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services.
The accounting standard is effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.
During fiscal year 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard, which replaces the existing incurred loss impairment methodology with a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates.
During fiscal year 2016, the FASB issued a new accounting standard to address the presentation of certain transactions within the statement of cash flows with the objective of reducing the existing diversity in practice.
Adoption of this standard will be required on a retrospective basis and will result in a reclassification of cash flows from operating activities to investing activities in the Company’s Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for cash receipts for the deferred purchase price receivable on asset-backed securitization transactions.
During fiscal year 2017, the FASB issued a new accounting standard to improve the accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
The adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements; however, the impact on future periods will depend on the facts and circumstances of future transactions.
During fiscal year 2017, the FASB issued a new accounting standard which clarifies the scope of accounting for asset derecognition and adds further guidance for recognizing gains and losses from the transfer of non-financial assets in contracts with non-customers.
This guidance is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 coincident with the new revenue recognition guidance.
During the second quarter of fiscal year 2018, the FASB issued a new accounting standard which allows a reclassification from accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings for stranded tax effects resulting from the Tax Act. This guidance is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020, with early adoption permitted.


item2.txt
(2)  During the three months ended May 31, 2018, the decrease in days in inventory from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to increased sales activity during the quarter.
During the three months ended February 28, 2018, the increase in days in inventory from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to the increase in inventories to support expected sales levels in the third quarter of fiscal year 2018 along with overall increased demand.
(3)  During the three months ended May 31, 2018, the decrease in days in accounts payable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to the timing of purchases and cash payments for purchases during the quarter.
During the three months ended November 30, 2017, the increase in days in accounts payable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to higher materials purchases during the quarter due to increased demand in the mobility business as well as the timing of purchases and cash payments from purchases during the quarter.
Net revenue increased during the three months ended May 31, 2018, compared to the three months ended May 31, 2017.
Gross profit increased during the three months ended May 31, 2018, compared to the three months ended May 31, 2017 primarily due to the increase in net revenue.
Gross profit decreased as a percentage of revenue due to (i) increased materials costs in our mobility and packaging businesses due to the constrained components market and (ii) charges related to a distressed customer.
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased during the three months ended May 31, 2018, compared to the three months ended May 31, 2017, primarily due to an increase in salary and salary related expenses and other costs to support business growth and development.
Amortization of intangibles increased during the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018, compared to the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2017, primarily due to amortization from intangible assets related to the True-Tech acquisition that occurred in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018.
Other expense decreased for the three months ended May 31, 2018, compared to the three months ended May 31, 2017, primarily due to an other than temporary impairment on available for sale securities of $11.5 million during the third quarter of fiscal year 2017.
The decrease was partially offset by an increase in fees of $4.7 million associated with the asset-backed securitization programs and trade accounts receivable sale programs during the third quarter of fiscal year 2018.
Other expense increased for the nine months ended May 31, 2018, compared to the nine months ended May 31, 2017, primarily due to an increase in fees associated with the asset-backed securitization programs and the new trade accounts receivable sale programs.
Interest expense increased during the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018, compared to the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2017, due to additional borrowings on the Revolving Credit Facility and higher interest rates.
Management believes that the non-GAAP “core” financial measures set forth below are useful to facilitate evaluating the past and future performance of our ongoing manufacturing operations over multiple periods on a comparable basis by excluding the effects of the amortization of intangibles, stock-based compensation expense and related charges, restructuring and related charges, distressed customer charges, acquisition costs and certain purchase accounting adjustments, loss on disposal of subsidiaries, settlement of receivables and related charges, impairment of notes receivable and related charges, goodwill impairment charges, business interruption and impairment charges, net, other than temporary impairment on securities, income (loss) from discontinued operations, gain (loss) on sale of discontinued operations and certain other expenses, net of tax and certain deferred tax valuation allowance charges.
(2)  Charges, net of insurance proceeds of $5.0 million and $21.4 million for the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018, respectively, relate to business interruptions and asset impairment costs associated with damage from Hurricane Maria, which impacted our operations in Cayey, Puerto Rico.
As discussed in Note 12 – “Business Acquisitions” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, we completed one acquisition during the nine months ended May 31, 2018 which was accounted for as a business combination using the acquisition method of accounting.
We believe that our level of liquidity sources, which includes available borrowings under our revolving credit facilities, additional proceeds available under our asset-backed securitization programs and under our uncommitted trade accounts receivable sale programs, cash on hand, funds provided by operations and the access to the capital markets, will be adequate to fund our capital expenditures, the payment of any declared quarterly dividends, share repurchases, any potential acquisitions and our working capital requirements for the next 12 months.
During the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018, we sold $1.3 billion and $4.0 billion, respectively, of trade accounts receivable under these programs and we received cash proceeds of $1.3 billion and $4.0 billion, respectively.
Net cash provided by operating activities during the nine months ended May 31, 2018 was primarily due to non-cash expenses and higher accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities, partially offset by higher inventories, accounts receivable and prepaid expenses and other current assets.
The increase in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities was primarily due to an increase in materials purchases due to increased demand in the mobility business and the timing of purchases and cash payments.
The increase in prepaid expense and other current assets is primarily due to an increase in value added tax receivables, partially offset by a decrease in deferred purchase price receivables from a decrease in receivables sold and the timing of cash collections.


item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Certain instruments with respect to long-term debt of the Registrant and its consolidated subsidiaries are not filed herewith pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of Regulation S-K since the total amount of securities authorized under each such instrument does not exceed 10% of the total assets of the Registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.
The Registrant agrees to furnish a copy of any such instrument to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


