item1.txt
Charges, net of insurance proceeds of $2.9 million and $10.3 million, for the three months ended November 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, relate to business interruption and asset impairment costs associated with damage from Hurricane Maria, which impacted our operations in Cayey, Puerto Rico.
The Company regularly sells designated pools of trade accounts receivable under a foreign asset-backed securitization program, a North American asset-back securitization program and nine uncommitted trade accounts receivable sale programs (collectively referred to herein as the “programs”).
The Company does not record a servicing asset or liability on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as the Company estimates that the fee it receives to service these receivables approximates the fair market compensation to provide the servicing activities.
Transfers of the receivables under the programs are accounted for as sales and, accordingly, net receivables sold under the programs are excluded from accounts receivable on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and are reflected as cash provided by operating activities on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
The adoption of ASU 2016-15 described in Note 14, New Accounting Guidance, resulted in a reclassification of cash flows from operating activities to investing activities in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for cash receipts related to collections on the deferred purchase price receivable on asset-backed securitization transactions.
In addition, the beneficial interest of $162.2 million and $747.3 million for the three months ended November 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, obtained in exchange for securitized receivables are reported as non-cash investing activities.
The Company continuously sells designated pools of trade accounts receivable under its foreign asset-backed securitization program to a special purpose entity, which in turn sells certain of the receivables to an unaffiliated financial institution and a conduit administered by an unaffiliated financial institution on a monthly basis.
As of October 1, 2018, approximately $734.2 million of accounts receivable sold under the foreign asset-backed securitization program was exchanged for the outstanding deferred purchase price receivable of $335.5 million.
Accordingly, the special purpose entity associated with the foreign asset-backed securitization program is included in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The North American asset-backed securitization program was terminated on October 9, 2018 and as of this date approximately $500.0 million of accounts receivable sold under the program was exchanged for the outstanding deferred purchase price receivable of $300.0 million and $200.0 million of cash.
On November 27, 2018, the Company entered into a new North American asset-backed securitization program.
The Company continuously sells designated pools of trade accounts receivable under its new North American asset-backed securitization program to a special purpose entity, which in turn sells certain of the receivables to conduits administered by unaffiliated financial institutions on a monthly basis.
The special purpose entity in the North American asset-backed securitization program is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company and is included in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
As of November 30, 2018 and August 31, 2018, the Company was in compliance with all covenants under the asset-backed securitization programs.
The Company expects to reclassify $9.2 million into earnings during the next twelve months, which will primarily be classified as a component of cost of revenue.
In addition to derivatives that are designated as hedging instruments and qualify for hedge accounting, the Company also enters into forward contracts to economically hedge transactional exposure associated with commitments arising from trade accounts receivable, trade accounts payable, fixed purchase obligations and intercompany transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the respective operating entity.
During the three months ended November 30, 2018, the Company recognized $21.9 million in foreign currency gains, which were offset by $38.6 million of losses from related forward contracts.
During fiscal year 2018, the Company entered into interest rate swap transactions to hedge the variable interest rate payments for the $350.0 million Term Loan Facility which expires on August 24, 2020 (the “2018 Term Loan Facility”).
During fiscal year 2016, the Company entered into forward interest rate swap transactions to hedge the fixed interest rate payments for an anticipated debt issuance (the 3.950% Senior Notes).
During fiscal year 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued an accounting standard, which is a comprehensive new revenue recognition model that requires a company to recognize revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to a customer at an amount that reflects the consideration it expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services.
The accounting standard became effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.
During fiscal year 2016, the FASB issued a new accounting standard to address the presentation of certain transactions within the statement of cash flows with the objective of reducing the existing diversity in practice.
This standard was adopted on September 1, 2018 on a retrospective basis and resulted in a reclassification of cash flows from operating activities to investing activities in the Company’s Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for cash receipts related to collections on the deferred purchase price receivable on asset-backed securitization transactions.
The increase in cash flow from investing activities and the corresponding decrease to cash flow from operating activities upon adoption of the standard was $96.8 million and $596.1 million for the three months ended November 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
During fiscal year 2017, the FASB issued a new accounting standard to improve the accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
The Company adopted the standard on September 1, 2018 on a retrospective basis which results in reclassifications for the service cost component of net periodic benefit cost from selling, general and administrative expense to cost of revenue and for the other components from selling, general and administrative expense to other expense.
The Company is currently evaluating practical expedients and accounting policy elections, and assessing overall impacts this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
During fiscal year 2018, the FASB issued a new accounting standard which allows a reclassification from AOCI to retained earnings for stranded tax effects resulting from the Tax Act. This guidance is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020, with early adoption permitted.
During fiscal year 2018, the FASB issued a new accounting standard which aligns the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software.
Effective September 1, 2018, the Company adopted Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09 (“ASU 2014-09”), Revenue Recognition (Topic 606).
The new standard is a comprehensive new revenue recognition model that requires the Company to recognize revenue in a manner which depicts the transfer of goods or services to its customers at an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services.
Prior to the adoption of the new standard, the Company recognized substantially all of its revenue from contracts with customers at a point in time, which was generally when the goods were shipped to or received by the customer, title and risk of ownership had passed, the price to the buyer was fixed or determinable and collectability was reasonably assured (net of estimated returns).
Under the new standard, the Company will recognize revenue over time for the majority of its contracts with customers which will result in revenue for those customers being recognized earlier than under the previous guidance.
Additionally, the new standard impacts the Company’s accounting for certain fulfillment costs, which include upfront costs to prepare for manufacturing activities that are expected to be recovered.
Under the new standard, such upfront costs will be recognized as an asset and amortized on a systematic basis consistent with the pattern of the transfer of control of the products or services to which to the asset relates.
The Company records an asset when revenue is recognized prior to invoicing a customer (“contract assets”) while a liability is recognized when a customer pays an invoice prior to the Company transferring control of the goods or services (“contract liabilities”).
No impairment costs related to contract assets were recognized during the three months ended November 30, 2018.
The Company capitalizes costs incurred to fulfill its contracts that i) relate directly to the contract or anticipated contracts, ii) are expected to generate or enhance the Company’s resources that will be used to satisfy the performance obligation under the contract, and iii) are expected to be recovered through revenue generated from the contract.


item2.txt
During the three months ended November 30, 2018, the increase in days in accounts receivable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to an increase in accounts receivable primarily driven by the amended and new securitization programs and higher sales and timing of collections.
During the three months ended August 31, 2018, the increase in days in accounts payable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to higher materials purchases during the quarter and the timing of purchases and cash payments for purchases during the quarter.
During the three months ended May 31, 2018, the decrease in days in accounts payable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to the timing of purchases and cash payments for purchases during the quarter.
Gross profit decreased as a percent of net revenue during the three months ended November 30, 2018, compared to the three months ended November 30, 2017, primarily due to higher costs in our capital equipment business and ramp costs associated with new business awards in our EMS segment.
The decrease is primarily due to an additional $32.4 million of stock-based compensation expense recognized during the three months ended November 30, 2017 as a result of the modification of certain performance-based restricted stock awards and a one-time cash-settled award.
The effective tax rate decreased for the three months ended November 30, 2018 compared to the three months ended November 30, 2017, primarily due to $13.3 million of income tax benefit associated with Tax Act adjustments, mainly related to the one-time transition tax.
Management believes that the non-GAAP “core” financial measures set forth below are useful to facilitate evaluating the past and future performance of our ongoing manufacturing operations over multiple periods on a comparable basis by excluding the effects of the amortization of intangibles, stock-based compensation expense and related charges, restructuring and related charges, distressed customer charges, acquisition and integration charges, loss on disposal of subsidiaries, settlement of receivables and related charges, impairment of notes receivable and related charges, goodwill impairment charges, business interruption and impairment charges, net, other than temporary impairment on securities, income (loss) from discontinued operations, gain (loss) on sale of discontinued operations and certain other expenses, net of tax and certain deferred tax valuation allowance charges.
Charges, net of insurance proceeds of $2.9 million and $10.3 million for the three months ended November 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, relate to business interruptions and asset impairment costs associated with damage from Hurricane Maria, which impacted our operations in Cayey, Puerto Rico.
We believe that our level of liquidity sources, which includes available borrowings under our revolving credit facilities, additional proceeds available under our asset-backed securitization programs and under our uncommitted trade accounts receivable sale programs, cash on hand, funds provided by operations and the access to the capital markets, will be adequate to fund our capital expenditures, the payment of any declared quarterly dividends, share repurchases, any potential acquisitions and our working capital requirements for the next 12 months.
We continuously sell designated pools of trade accounts receivable under our foreign asset-backed securitization program to a special purpose entity, which in turn sells certain of the receivables to an unaffiliated financial institution and a conduit administered by an unaffiliated financial institution on a monthly basis.
As of October 1, 2018, approximately $734.2 million of accounts receivable sold under the foreign asset-backed securitization program was exchanged for the outstanding deferred purchase price receivable of $335.5 million.
The North American asset-backed securitization program was terminated on October 9, 2018 and as of this date approximately $500.0 million of accounts receivable sold under the program was exchanged for the outstanding deferred purchase price receivable of $300.0 million and $200.0 million of cash.
We continuously sell designated pools of trade accounts receivable under our new North American asset-backed securitization program to a special purpose entity, which in turn sells certain of the receivables to conduits administered by unaffiliated financial institutions on a monthly basis.
In connection with our asset-backed securitization programs, during the three months ended November 30, 2018, we sold $750.4 million of trade accounts receivable and we received cash proceeds of $744.0 million.
During the three months ended November 30, 2018, we sold $1.8 billion of trade accounts receivable under these programs and we received cash proceeds of $1.8 billion.
Net cash used in operating activities during the three months ended November 30, 2018 was primarily due to increased contract assets and accounts receivable, partially offset by increased accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities and decreased inventories.
The increase in accounts receivable is primarily driven by the amended and new securitization programs and higher sales and timing of collections.
The increase in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities is primarily due to the timing of collections on accounts receivable sold under the securitization programs, an increase in materials purchases due to increased demand in the mobility business and the timing of purchases and cash payments.
Net cash used in investing activities during the three months ended November 30, 2018 consisted primarily of capital expenditures principally to support ongoing business in the DMS and EMS segments, partially offset by cash receipts on sold receivables under the asset-backed securitization programs.


item4.txt
Certain instruments with respect to long-term debt of the Registrant and its consolidated subsidiaries are not filed herewith pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of Regulation S-K since the total amount of securities authorized under each such instrument does not exceed 10% of the total assets of the Registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.


part2.txt
Certain instruments with respect to long-term debt of the Registrant and its consolidated subsidiaries are not filed herewith pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of Regulation S-K since the total amount of securities authorized under each such instrument does not exceed 10% of the total assets of the Registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


