item1.txt
Solacom Technologies Inc. On February 28, 2019, we completed our acquisition of Solacom Technologies Inc. ("Solacom"), pursuant to the Arrangement Agreement, dated as of January 7, 2019, by and among Solacom, Comtech and Solar Acquisition Corp., a Canadian corporation and a direct, wholly-owned subsidiary of Comtech.
The preliminary purchase price for accounting purposes is subject to finalization.
The purchase price was allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, based on their preliminary fair value as of February 28, 2019, pursuant to the business combination accounting rules.
The preliminary fair value of customer relationships and backlog was primarily based on the value of the discounted cash flows that the related intangible asset could be expected to generate in the future.
Among the factors contributing to the recognition of goodwill, as a component of the purchase price allocation, were synergies in products and technologies and the addition of a skilled, assembled workforce.
The allocation of the preliminary purchase price shown in the above table was based upon a preliminary valuation and estimates and assumptions that are subject to change within the purchase price allocation period (generally one year from the acquisition date).
The primary areas of the purchase price allocation not yet finalized include the purchase price (due to customary provisions in the purchase agreement related to adjustments to net working capital as of the acquisition date), a final assessment of accrued warranty obligations, income taxes and residual goodwill.
The acquisition of this NG-911 business from GD ("the GD NG-911 business") has a preliminary cash purchase price of $10,000,000.
In connection with this acquisition, we also announced an award of a five-year contract to develop, implement and operate a NG-911 emergency communications system for a Northeastern State.
The acquisition, contract award and hiring of talented employees are expected to strengthen Comtech’s position in the growing NG-911 solutions market.


item2.txt
We are a leading provider of advanced communications solutions for both commercial and government customers worldwide.
Our solutions fulfill our customers’ needs for secure wireless communications in some of the most demanding environments, including those where traditional communications are unavailable or cost-prohibitive, and in mission-critical and other scenarios where performance is crucial.
•Commercial Solutions - serves commercial customers and smaller governments, such as state and local governments, that require advanced communication technologies to meet their needs.
We believe this segment is a leading provider of satellite communications (such as satellite earth station modems and traveling wave tube amplifiers ("TWTA") and solid-state power amplifiers ("SSPAs")), public safety systems (such as next generation 911 ("NG-911") technologies) and enterprise application technologies (such as a messaging and trusted location-based technologies).
•Government Solutions - serves large government end-users (including those of foreign countries) that require mission critical technologies and systems.
We believe this segment is a leading provider of command and control applications (such as the design, installation and operation of data networks that integrate computing and communications (including both satellite and terrestrial links)), ongoing network operation and management support services including project management and fielding and maintenance solutions related to satellite ground terminals), troposcatter communications (such as digital troposcatter multiplexers, digital over-the-horizon modems, troposcatter systems, and frequency converter systems) and RF power and switching technologies (such as solid state high-power broadband amplifiers, identification friend or foe amplifiers, and amplifiers used in the counteraction of improvised explosive devices).
We consider certain accounting policies to be critical due to the estimation process involved in each.
Revenue Recognition.
As a practical expedient, we adopted the new standard only for existing contracts as of August 1, 2018.
This generally occurs when we enter into a long-term contract relating to the design, development or manufacture of complex equipment or technology platforms to a buyer’s specification (or to provide services related to the performance of such contracts).
Continuous transfer of control is typically supported by contract clauses which allow our customers to unilaterally terminate a contract for convenience, pay for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit and take control of work-in-process.
Revenue recognized over time is generally based on the extent of progress toward completion of the related performance obligations.
The selection of the method to measure progress requires judgment and is based on the nature of the products or services provided.
In certain instances, typically for firm fixed-price contracts, we use the cost-to-cost measure because it best depicts the transfer of control to the customer which occurs as we incur costs on our contracts.
Under the cost-to-cost measure, the extent of progress toward completion is measured based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs at completion, including warranty costs.
Revenues, including estimated fees or profits, are recorded proportionally as costs are incurred.
When these contracts are modified, the additional goods or services are generally not distinct from those already provided.
For over time contracts using a cost-to-cost measure of progress, we have an estimate at completion ("EAC") process in which management reviews the progress and execution of our performance obligations.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



