item1.txt
Solacom Technologies Inc. On February 28, 2019, we completed our acquisition of Solacom Technologies Inc. ("Solacom"), pursuant to the Arrangement Agreement, dated as of January 7, 2019, by and among Solacom, Comtech and Solar Acquisition Corp., a Canadian corporation and a direct, wholly-owned subsidiary of Comtech.
The cash portion of the purchase price was funded principally through borrowings under our Credit Facility.
The purchase price was allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, based on their fair value as of February 28, 2019, pursuant to the business combination accounting rules.
The fair value of technology and trade name was estimated based on the discounted capitalization of royalty expense saved because we now own the assets.
Among the factors contributing to the recognition of goodwill, as a component of the purchase price allocation, were synergies in products and technologies and the addition of a skilled, assembled workforce.
On April 29, 2019, we completed the acquisition of a state and local government NG-911 business pursuant to the Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of April 29, 2019, by and among General Dynamics Information Technology, Inc., Comtech and Comtech NextGen LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of Comtech.
The acquisition of this NG-911 business from GD (the "GD NG-911 business") has a preliminary cash purchase price of $10,000,000 (which is subject to a net working capital adjustment).
The acquisition, contract award and hiring of talented employees are expected to strengthen Comtech’s position in the growing NG-911 solutions market.
We are accounting for the acquisition of this business under the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with FASB ASC 805.
The fair value of customer relationships was estimated based on the value of the discounted cash flows that the related intangible asset could be expected to generate in the future.
This goodwill has been assigned to our Commercial Solutions segment based on specific identification.
We are currently finalizing a net working capital adjustment, pursuant to the terms of the purchase agreement.


item2.txt
We are a leading provider of advanced communications solutions for both commercial and government customers worldwide.
Our solutions fulfill our customers' needs for secure wireless communications in some of the most demanding environments, including those where traditional communications are unavailable or cost-prohibitive, and in mission-critical and other scenarios where performance is crucial.
•Commercial Solutions - offers satellite ground station technologies (such as modems and amplifiers), public safety and location technologies (such as 911 call routing and mapping solutions) to commercial customers and smaller government customers, such as state and local governments.
In fiscal 2020, we have rebranded our operating segment product groups to better align with our end markets.
Prior descriptions of these product lines were updated to reflect such changes.
This generally occurs when we enter into a long-term contract relating to the design, development or manufacture of complex equipment or technology platforms to a buyer’s specification (or to provide services related to the performance of such contracts).
Continuous transfer of control is typically supported by contract clauses which allow our customers to unilaterally terminate a contract for convenience, pay for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit and take control of work-in-process.
Under the cost-to-cost measure, the extent of progress toward completion is measured based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs at completion, including warranty costs.
Revenues, including estimated fees or profits, are recorded proportionally as costs are incurred.
This EAC process requires management judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenue and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues.
Since certain contracts extend over a long period of time, the impact of revisions in revenue and or cost estimates during the progress of work may impact current period earnings through a cumulative adjustment.
Additionally, if the EAC process indicates a loss, a provision is made for the total anticipated loss in the period that it becomes evident.
Contract revenue and cost estimates for significant contracts are generally reviewed and reassessed at least quarterly.
For service-based contracts in our public safety and location technologies product line, we recognize revenue over time.
In determining that our equipment has alternative use, we considered the underlying manufacturing process for our products.
In the early phases of manufacturing, raw materials and work in process (including subassemblies) consist of common parts that are highly fungible among many different types of products and customer applications.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 1.


