In the opinion of management, the information furnished reflects all material adjustments (which include normal recurring adjustments) necessary for a fair presentation of the results for the unaudited interim periods.
Certain reclassifications have been made to previously reported condensed consolidated financial statements to conform to the current fiscal period presentation.
The preliminary purchase price for accounting purposes is subject to finalization.
2016-16 "Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory," which eliminates a prior exception and now requires an entity to recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory (for example, intellectual property and property, plant and equipment) when the transfer occurs.
33-10532 "Disclosure Update and Simplification," which revised certain of the SEC’s disclosure requirements that have become superseded in light of other SEC and or U.S. GAAP disclosure requirements.
Continuous transfer of control is typically supported by contract clauses which allow our customers to unilaterally terminate a contract for convenience, pay for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit and take control of work-in-process.We are a leading provider of advanced communications solutions for both commercial and government customers worldwide.
Our solutions fulfill our customers’ needs for secure wireless communications in some of the most demanding environments, including those where traditional communications are unavailable or cost-prohibitive, and in mission-critical and other scenarios where performance is crucial.
•Commercial Solutions - serves commercial customers and smaller governments, such as state and local governments, that require advanced communication technologies to meet their needs.
We believe this segment is a leading provider of satellite communications (such as satellite earth station modems and traveling wave tube amplifiers ("TWTA")), public safety systems (such as next generation 911 ("NG911") technologies) and enterprise application technologies (such as a messaging and trusted location-based technologies).
•Government Solutions - serves large government end-users (including those of foreign countries) that require mission critical technologies and systems.
We believe this segment is a leading provider of command and control applications (such as the design, installation and operation of data networks that integrate computing and communications (including both satellite and terrestrial links)), ongoing network operation and management support services including project management and fielding and maintenance solutions related to satellite ground terminals), troposcatter communications (such as digital troposcatter multiplexers, digital over-the-horizon modems, troposcatter systems, and frequency converter systems) and RF power and switching technologies (such as solid state high-power broadband amplifiers, enhanced position location reporting system (or commonly known as "EPLRS") amplifier assemblies, identification friend or foe amplifiers, and amplifiers used in the counteraction of improvised explosive devices).
We consider certain accounting policies to be critical due to the estimation process involved in each.
Revenue Recognition.
As a practical expedient, we adopted the new standard only for existing contracts as of August 1, 2018.
This generally occurs when we enter into a long-term contract relating to the design, development or manufacture of complex equipment or technology platforms to a buyer’s specification (or to provide services related to the performance of such contracts).
Continuous transfer of control is typically supported by contract clauses which allow our customers to unilaterally terminate a contract for convenience, pay for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit and take control of work-in-process.
Revenue recognized over time is generally based on the extent of progress toward completion of the related performance obligations.