fls.txt



item1.txt
There were no changes to goodwill, nor has the Company recognized any impairment charges, during the three months’ periods ended November 30, 2018 and 2017.
The agreement provided for a working capital adjustment, an eighteen-month $1,000,000 holdback provision against certain representations and warranties, and an Earn-out agreement of up to an additional $5,000,000 in Earn-out payments based on earnings over three years.
This plan will terminate in December 2026.
Amortization of software development costs amounted to $339,073 and $285,310 for the three months ended November 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Accounts receivable concentration shows that six customers comprised 18%, 8%, 8% (a dealer account in Japan representing various customers), 7%, 6%, and 5% of accounts receivable at November 30, 2017.
If the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to the excess.
If, however, the fair value of the reporting unit is less than book value, then the second step is performed to determine if goodwill is impaired and to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any.
The reported results for fiscal year 2019 reflect the application of ASC Topic 606, while the reported results for fiscal year 2018 are not adjusted and continue to be reported under ASC Topic 605.
The revenue recognition standard is required to be applied retrospectively, including any combination of practical expedients as allowed in the standard.
It is estimated that approximately 40% of the original Earn-out liability will be paid in the second year and the remainder of the Earn-out will be paid in the following year.
Significant accounting policies for us include revenue recognition, accounting for capitalized computer software development costs, valuation of stock options, and accounting for income taxes.
In May 2016 the Company exercised the two, two-year options extending the term of the lease through February 2, 2021 at a fixed rate of $25,000 per month.
The Company performs valuations of assets acquired and liabilities assumed on each acquisition accounted for as a business combination and recognizes the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their acquisition date fair value.
Under ASC 605 revenues were recognized as invoiced and certain costs were capitalized as development.
We maintain a 401(K) Plan for all eligible employees, and we make matching contributions equal to 100% of the employee’s elective deferral, not to exceed 4% of total employee compensation.


item2.txt
To ensure high-quality analyses, organizations must not only apply high-quality science, but must also be able to support the science by being able to validate the results.
Our goal with GastroPlus is to integrate the most advanced science into user-friendly software to enable researchers and regulators to perform sophisticated analyses of complex compound behaviors in humans and laboratory animals.
The MedChem Studio Module in ADMET Predictor is a powerful software tool that is used both for data mining and for de novo design of new molecules.
If the number is too high (greater than 7), the molecule is not likely to be successful as a drug.
The ideal score is zero; however, a low score greater than zero might be acceptable, depending on what property(s) caused the points to be assigned.
Comparison of Three Months Ended November 30, 2018 and 2017.
Our flagship product, originally introduced in 1998, and currently our largest single source of software revenue, is GastroPlus.
This version added new formulation types (controlled release bilayer tablet, delayed release coated tablet, and immediate release coated beads), expanded formulation specification options, biorelevant solubilities and surfactant effects on dissolution, tablet compression and disintegration models, links with GastroPlus, and updated licensing.
ADMET (Absorption, Distribution, Metabolism, Excretion, and Toxicity) Predictor is a chemistry-based computer program that takes molecular structures (i.e., drawings of molecules represented in various formats) as inputs and predicts approximately 150 different properties for them at an average rate of over 100,000 compounds per hour on a modern laptop computer.
The software will utilize predictions of drug exposure in the kidney from PBPK platforms such as GastroPlus, along with in vitro data related to certain kidney injury mechanisms, to make predictions.
The increase is a resulted mainly from the change in rates due to the new federal tax legislation passed in 2018.
Consolidated software and software-related sales increased $365,000 or 9.7%, while consolidated consulting and analytical study revenues increased $46,000 or 3.1% over 1QFY18.


item3.txt
None.


item4.txt



part2.txt
We are not a party to any legal proceedings and are not aware of any pending legal proceedings of any kind.


