fls.txt



item1.txt
Therefore, revenue is recognized one year at a time.
We recognize revenue on sales of our DILIsym Subsidiary in accordance with ASC 605-25, “Revenue Recognition, Multiple-Element Arrangements”.
The agreement provided for a working capital adjustment, an eighteen-month $1,000,000 holdback provision against certain representations and warrantees, and an Earn-out agreement of up to an additional $5,000,000 in Earn-out payments based on earnings over the next three years.
Determining the fair value of certain acquired assets and liabilities is subjective in nature and often involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions, including, but not limited to, the selection of appropriate valuation methodology, projected revenue, expenses and cash flows, weighted average cost of capital, discount rates, estimates of advertiser and publisher turnover rates, and estimates of terminal values.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Simulations Plus, Inc. and, as of September 2, 2014, its wholly owned subsidiary, Cognigen Corporation, and as of June 1, 2017, the accounts of DILIsym Services, Inc. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated in consolidation.
The agreement provided for a working capital adjustment, an eighteen-month $1,000,000 holdback provision against certain representations and warrantees, and an Earn-out agreement of up to an additional $5,000,000 in Earn-out payments based on earnings over the next three years.
Therefore, revenue is recognized one year at a time.
The Earn-out liability has been recorded at fair value.
The initial five-year term expires in October 2018; the lease allows for a three-year option to extend to October 2021.
The dividend will be distributed on Wednesday May 2, 2018, for shareholders of record as of Wednesday April 25, 2018.
The Company has not yet selected a transition method nor has it determined the effect of the standard on its ongoing financial reporting.
These costs include salaries, laboratory experiment, and purchased software that was developed by other companies and incorporated into, or used in the development of, our final products.


item2.txt
Consolidated gross margin increased $2.34 million or 28.4%, to $10.57 million in 6moFY18 from $8.23 million in 6moFY17.
Net income increased by $2.63 million, or 103.0%, in 6moFY18 to $5.19 million from $2.56 million in 6moFY17.
When used with a license for ADMET Predictor, MedChem Designer becomes a de novo molecule design tool.
At various scientific meetings around the world each year there are numerous presentations and posters presented in which the reported research was performed using our software.
If the number is too high (greater than 5 or 6), the molecule is not likely to be successful as a drug.
Training related expenses were down $75,000 compared to the prior year.
In addition, we actively seek strategic acquisitions to expand the pharmaceutical software and services business and to explore opportunities in aerospace and general healthcare.
Already the most widely used program in the world for physiologically based pharmacokinetics (PBPK), the addition of these new capabilities is expected to expand the user base in the early pharmaceutical research and development process, while also helping us further penetrate the biopharmaceuticals, food, cosmetics, and general toxicology markets.
The Board of Directors must approve each quarterly dividend distribution and may decide to increase, decrease, or eliminate dividend distributions at any time.
Net income increased by $2.63 million, or 103.0%, in 6moFY18 to $5.19 million from $2.56 million in 6moFY17.
It was initially a molecule-drawing program, or “sketcher”, but now has capabilities exceeding those of other molecule-drawing programs because of its integration with both MedChem Studio and ADMET Predictor.
The Board of Directors must approve each quarterly dividend distribution and may decide to increase, decrease, or eliminate dividend distributions at any time.
Researchers can also click on an icon to generate the likely metabolites of a molecule and then predict all of the properties of those metabolites from ADMET Predictor, including each of their ADMET Risk scores.
Net income increased by $2.63 million, or 103.0%, in 6moFY18 to $5.19 million from $2.56 million in 6moFY17.
To ensure high-quality analyses, organizations must not only apply high-quality science, but must also be able to support the science by being able to validate the results.


item3.txt
The majority of our software license agreements are denominated in U.S. dollars.


item4.txt



part2.txt
None.


