fls.txt



item1.txt
We believe the combination of Simulations Plus and DILIsym provides substantial future potential based on the complementary strengths of each of the companies.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Simulations Plus, Inc. and, as of September 2, 2014, its wholly owned subsidiary, Cognigen Corporation, and as of June 1, 2017, the accounts of DILIsym Services, Inc. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated in consolidation.
We allocate the revenue derived from these arrangements among all the deliverables.
The standard will eliminate the transaction- and industry-specific revenue recognition guidance under current generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. (GAAP) and replace it with a principles-based approach for determining revenue recognition.
On February 23, 2007, the Board of Directors adopted and the shareholders approved the 2007 Stock Option Plan under which a total of 1,000,000 shares of common stock had been reserved for issuance.
Significant judgment is employed in determining the appropriateness of these assumptions as of the acquisition date and for each subsequent period.
Amortization of capitalized software development costs is calculated on a product-by-product basis on the straight-line method over the estimated economic life of the products (not to exceed five years).
Recently, the Company has begun to explore developing software applications for defense and for health care outside of the pharmaceutical industry.
The Company is required to perform step one only if it concludes that it is more likely than not that a reporting unit's fair value is less than its carrying value.
The initial five-year term expires in October 2018; the lease allows for a three-year option to extend to October 2021.
Accounts receivable concentration shows that six customers comprised 18%, 8%, 8% (a dealer account in Japan representing various customers), 7%, 6%, and 5% of accounts receivable at November 30, 2017.
Accumulated amortization as of November 30, 2017 and August 31, 2017 was $43,125 and $41,250, respectively.
The following consolidated supplemental pro forma information assumes that the acquisition of DILIsym took place on September 1, 2016 for the income statement for the three-month period ended November 30, 2016.
Our multiple-deliverable arrangements consist of consulting arrangements, at our DILIsym Subsidiary.


item2.txt
We currently have one license agreement, with BIOVIA (formerly known as Accelrys, Inc.), a San Diego division of Dassault Systemes in France, pursuant to which a small royalty is paid to BIOVIA from revenues on each license for the Metabolite module in ADMET Predictor.
Without ADMET Risk, the chemist would have to individually examine many key properties for each new molecule (and its metabolites) to determine whether any of them became unacceptable as a result of changing the structure.
Overall gross margin remained fairly constant increasing by 0.1% to 75.4% in 1QFY18 from 75.3.9% in 1QFY17.
In addition to the two funded efforts with the FDA described above, we also have an unfunded RCA with the FDA’s Office of Generic Drugs (OGD) that began in 2014.
In its data-mining role, MedChem Studio facilitates searching large chemical libraries to find molecules that contain identified substructures, and it enables rapid identification of clusters (classes) of molecules that share common substructures.
Both the DILIsym and NAFLDsym software programs require outputs from physiologically based pharmacokinetics (PBPK) software as inputs.
Overall gross margin remained fairly constant increasing by 0.1% to 75.4% in 1QFY18 from 75.3.9% in 1QFY17.
As chemists attempt to modify structures to improve one property, they often cause others to become unacceptable.
On June 1, 2017, the Company consummated the acquisition of all outstanding equity interests of DILIsym pursuant to the terms of the Stock Agreement, with DILIsym becoming a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company.
This version added new formulation types (controlled release bilayer tablet, delayed release coated tablet, and immediate release coated beads), expanded formulation specification options, biorelevant solubilities and surfactant effects on dissolution, tablet compression and disintegration models, links with GastroPlus, and updated licensing.
This license agreement continues in perpetuity and either party has the right to terminate it.
We have achieved continuous positive operating cash flow over the last ten fiscal years.
The merger closed on September 2, 2014, and Cognigen became our wholly owned subsidiary.


item3.txt
Some of our cash and cash equivalents are held in money market accounts; however, they are not exposed to market rate risk.


item4.txt



part2.txt
  Item 1A.


