fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company determines the appropriate useful life by performing an analysis of expected cash flows based on historical experience of the acquired businesses.
As a byproduct of ongoing improvements and upgrades for the new programs and new modules of software, some modifications are provided to our customers who have already purchased software at no additional charge.
Should this be the case, the first step of the two-step process is to identify whether a potential impairment exists by comparing the estimated fair values of the Company's reporting units with their respective book values, including goodwill.
The following is a reconciliation of contingent consideration value.
Changes in the value of the contingent consideration obligations are recorded in the Company’s Consolidated Statement of Operations.
The Company maintains cash at financial institutions that may, at times, exceed federally insured limits.
If the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to the excess.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this standard on its consolidated financial statements.
Such guidance prescribes a recognition threshold of more likely than not and a measurement process for financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return.
The Company has commenced its assessment of these new standards, developed a project plan to guide the implementation, and is evaluating the impact these new standards will have on its consolidated financial statements.
The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Amortization expense for each of the three-month and nine-month periods ended May 31, 2018 and 2017 was $89,375 and $36,875, and $268,125 and $110,625, respectively.
If the estimated fair value of the reporting unit exceeds book value, goodwill is considered not to be impaired, and no additional steps are necessary.


item2.txt
Overall gross margin as a percentage of revenue decreased by 1.4% to 74.4% in 9moFY18 from 75.8% in 9moFY17.
The Buffalo division gross profit increased $69,000 or 6.6% with gross margin of 57.5%, and DILIsym of North Carolina showed $519,000, a 54.2% gross margin.
In September 2014, Simulations Plus acquired Cognigen Corporation (Cognigen) as a wholly owned subsidiary pursuant to that certain Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of July 23, 2014, by and between Simulations Plus and Cognigen (the “Merger Agreement”).
In addition, since it can take hundreds of models to create one final model, an automated diagnostics dashboard has been added that visually displays the results of over 10 diagnostics that are used by modelers to decide what direction to take their modeling with the potential to significantly reduce the amount of time it takes to arrive at a final model.
$1,360,000 of this increase is from the Lancaster division, which showed an 83.8% gross margin.
We have also developed software for harnessing cloud-based computing in support of modeling and simulation activities and secure data archiving, and we provide consulting services to improve interdisciplinary collaborations and research and development productivity.
Included in the increase was $167,000 of salary expense at DILIsym.
Our clinical-pharmacology-based consulting services include pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic modeling, clinical trial simulations, data programming, and technical writing services in support of regulatory submissions.
In addition, since it can take hundreds of models to create one final model, an automated diagnostics dashboard has been added that visually displays the results of over 10 diagnostics that are used by modelers to decide what direction to take their modeling with the potential to significantly reduce the amount of time it takes to arrive at a final model.
The forward-looking statements contained or incorporated by reference in this document are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (“Securities Act”) and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”) and are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Overall gross margin as a percentage of revenue decreased by 1.4% to 74.4% in 9moFY18 from 75.8% in 9moFY17.
The DILIsym software models a variety of interactions within the hepatocytes to determine whether a particular drug molecule interrupts normal signaling pathways in a manner to induce injury to the cells.
All payments were made as of April 2017.
Where DILIsym is used to investigate the likelihood that a known drug molecule would cause injury to the liver, NAFLDsym is concerned with a liver that is already diseased by excess fat and investigates the likelihood that various molecules might provide beneficial therapeutic benefits to treat or cure the disease.


item3.txt
We do not hedge currencies or enter into derivative contracts.


item4.txt



part2.txt
   Item 1A.


