There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage any of these risks successfully.
Our solutions are complex and operate in a wide variety of environments, systems and configurations, which could result in failures of our solutions to function as designed.
Rent expense under operating leases was $18 million and $37 million for the three and six months ended September 28, 2018, respectively.
We sell our solutions to customers around the world through multi-tiered sales and distribution networks.
Revenues from customers inside the U.S. were $427 million and $883 million during the three and six months ended October 4, 2019, respectively, and $425 million and $842 million during the three and six months ended September 28, 2018, respectively. No other individual country accounted for more than 10% of revenues.
Our discontinued operations consist of our divested Enterprise Security assets and also includes results of our previously divested Veritas information management business (Veritas). There was no income from Veritas during the three and six months ended October 4, 2019. Revenue from Veritas was $4 million and $9 million during the three and six months ended September 28, 2018. Income from Veritas, net of taxes was $0 million and $5 million during the three and six months ended September 28, 2018.
•Our OEM partners may develop, market, and distribute their own solutions and market and distribute products of our competitors, which could reduce our sales.
Because we offer very complex solutions, undetected errors, failures or bugs may occur, especially when solutions are first introduced or when new versions are released. Despite testing by us and others, errors, failures, or bugs may not be found in new solutions or releases until after they are delivered to customers. In the past, we have discovered software errors, failures, and bugs in certain of our solutions after their introduction and, in some cases, have experienced delayed or lost revenues as a result of these errors.
We are dependent upon Broadcom for certain engineering services, which are critical to our products and business.
We recognized amortization expense of capitalized contract acquisition costs of $1 million and $3 million during the three and six months ended October 4, 2019, respectively, and $1 million and $2 million during the three and six months ended September 28, 2018, respectively. There were no impairment losses recognized during the periods.Our cost of revenues decreased $16 million primarily due to inventory write-offs of $10 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 which did not recur in fiscal 2020 and an $8 million decrease in technical support costs in the second quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to the corresponding period in the prior year.
Net revenues increased $34 million compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2019 primarily due to approximately $44 million of revenue from the additional week in the first six months of fiscal 2020.
Sales and marketing expense increased $1 million primarily due to a $9 million increase advertising and promotional expense, partially offset by a $9 million decrease in stock-based compensation expense.There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage any of these risks successfully.
We sell our solutions to customers around the world through multi-tiered sales and distribution networks.
If we are unable to develop new and enhanced solutions that achieve widespread market acceptance, or if we are unable to continually improve the performance, features, and reliability of our existing solutions or adapt our business model to keep pace with industry trends, our competitive position may weaken, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected.
•Our OEM partners may develop, market, and distribute their own solutions and market and distribute products of our competitors, which could reduce our sales.
We are dependent upon Broadcom for certain engineering services, which are critical to our products and business.