See Note 6 for more information on our acquisitions and divestiture.
For the three and nine months ended December 29, 2017, we recorded an income tax benefit of $30 million and an income tax expense of $7 million on discontinued operations, respectively. For the three and nine months ended December 30, 2016, 
During our second quarter of fiscal 2017, we acquired all of the outstanding common stock of Blue Coat, Inc. (“Blue Coat”). The total consideration for the acquisition was approximately $4.67 billion, net of cash acquired. The Blue Coat results are included in our Enterprise Security segment. See Note 2 for more information related to our segments.
Note 6. Acquisitions and Divestiture
•Consumer Digital Safety. Our Consumer Digital Safety segment focuses on providing a comprehensive Digital Safety solution to protect information, devices, networks and the identities of consumers. This solution includes our Norton-branded services, which provide multi-layer security across major desktop and mobile operating systems, public Wi-Fi connections, and home networks, to defend against increasingly complex online threats to individuals, families and small businesses, and our LifeLock-branded identity protection services. Our LifeLock-branded identity protection services primarily consist of identifying and notifying users of identity-related and other events and assisting users in remediating their impact. With the addition of LifeLock-branded identity protection services, we are providing a comprehensive digital safety solution designed to protect information across devices, customer identities and the connected home and family and accelerating our leadership in Consumer Digital Safety to protect all aspects of consumers’ digital lives.
On October 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our website security (“WSS”) and public key infrastructure (“PKI”) solutions to Thoma Bravo, LLC’s portfolio company DigiCert Parent Inc. (“DigiCert”). The results of operations of our WSS and PKI solutions prior to the divestiture are reported in our consolidated results of operations through October 31, 2017. See Note 6 for more information on the divestiture.
In July 2017, we completed our acquisitions of Israel-based Fireglass, Ltd. (“Fireglass”) and Skycure, Ltd. (“Skycure”). Fireglass provides agentless isolation solutions that prevent ransomware, malware and phishing threats in real-time from reaching user endpoints or the corporate network. With this acquisition, we further strengthened our enterprise security strategy to deliver an Integrated Cyber Defense Platform and extended our participation in the Secure Web Gateway and Email protection markets delivered both on premises and in the cloud. Skycure provides mobile threat defense for devices running modern operating systems, including iOS and Android. This acquisition extends our endpoint security capabilities. With the addition of Skycure our Integrated Cyber Defense Platform now has visibility into and control over all endpoint devices, including mobile devices, whether corporate owned or bring your own device. The total aggregate consideration for these acquisitions, primarily consisting of cash, was $345 million, net of $15 million cash acquired.
Item 1. Legal Proceedings
During the third quarter of fiscal 2018, we prepaid principal amounts of $130 million of our Senior Term Loan A-3 and $500 million of our Senior Term Loan A-1.Revenue increased $462 million, or 38%, primarily due to revenue from sales of LifeLock products in the first nine months of fiscal 2018, which were absent in the same period in fiscal 2017. We were also impacted by the trends related to our Norton products discussed above. Operating income increased $122 million, or 18%, primarily due to the contribution from the LifeLock acquisition.
Our cost of revenues increased $174 million, or 29%, primarily due to cost of revenues related to our acquired Blue Coat and LifeLock products, including $83 million of increased amortization of acquired intangible assets and $52 million of increased technical support costs primarily driven by the LifeLock acquisition.
Our percentage of revenues from the Americas for the three and nine months ended December 29, 2017 increased compared to prior year periods primarily as a result of LifeLock sales which are entirely U.S.-based.
Revenue increased $258 million, or 15%, primarily due to the full period impact of the Blue Coat acquisition, partially offset by a decrease of $80 million in revenue as a result of the divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions on October 31, 2017. Revenue during the first nine months of fiscal 2018 was also unfavorably affected by our shift to products with ratable revenue recognition as described above. Operating income increased $266 million, or 240%, primarily due to the contribution from the Blue Coat acquisition.
The increase in non-operating income (expense), net, for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 from our divestiture was partially offset by increased interest expense of $65 million mainly related to the timing of the issuance of the borrowings in fiscal 2017 as well as a foreign currency net loss of $26 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2018, compared to a net gain of $3 million in the same period in fiscal 2017.
Revenue increased $187 million, or 47%, primarily due to revenue from sales of LifeLock products in the third quarter of fiscal 2018, which were absent in the third quarter of fiscal 2017. Our revenue growth reflects the benefit of the shift to subscription-based contracts and combined packaging of our consumer products, which is helping to mitigate the trend of declining revenues from sales of stand-alone Norton-branded products. Operating income increased $89 million, or 42%, primarily due to the contribution from the LifeLock acquisition.
Non-operating income (expense), net, increased during the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2018, compared to the same periods in fiscal 2017, primarily due to a $658 million gain as a result of our divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions. See Note 6 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on our divestiture.
•Gross margin increased 2 percentage points compared to the corresponding period in the prior year due to the mix of customer and products, as our higher margin Consumer Digital Safety segment contributed to a larger proportion of the total gross profit.
Sales and marketing expense were relatively flat compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017.Changes to our effective tax rate could increase our income tax expense and reduce (increase) our net income (loss).