For the three months ended June 30, 2017, we recorded an income tax expense of $41 million on discontinued operations.
Operating segments are based upon the nature of our business and how our business is managed.
Revenues from customers inside the U.S. were $688 million and $679 million during the three months ended June 29, 2018 and June 30, 2017, respectively.
There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage any of these risks successfully.
For the three months ended June 29, 2018, we had no income tax expense on discontinued operations.
During the three months ended June 29, 2018, as a result of the adoption of the new revenue recognition guidance, our net revenue increased $5 million and operating expenses decreased $9 million.
During the three months ended June 29, 2018, we completed the acquisition of a business for a net cash purchase price of $5 million.
Our solutions are complex and operate in a wide variety of environments, systems, applications and configurations, which could result in failures of our solutions to function as designed.
During the three months ended June 29, 2018, we recognized $23 million of amortization expense of capitalized contract acquisition costs.
We are involved in a number of other judicial and administrative proceedings that are incidental to our business.
designed to impede the performance and availability of our offerings and harm our reputation as a company.Operating income decreased $38 million primarily due to our October 2017 divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions which contributed $59 million to operating income in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Revenue decreased $90 million, primarily due to a $103 million decrease in revenue as a result of our fiscal 2018 divestiture of the WSS and PKI solutions.There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage any of these risks successfully.
designed to impede the performance and availability of our offerings and harm our reputation as a company.
•Obtaining sufficient licenses to technology and technical access to operating system software.
To compete successfully, we must maintain an innovative research and development effort to develop new solutions and enhance our existing solutions, effectively adapt to changes in the technology or product rights held by our competitors, appropriately respond to competitive strategies and effectively adapt to technological changes and changes in the ways that our information is accessed, used and stored within our enterprise and consumer markets.
We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position, and that the level of these investments will increase in future periods.
Because we offer very complex solutions, undetected errors, failures or bugs may occur, especially when solutions are first introduced or when new versions are released.