Operating segments are based upon the nature of our business and how our business is managed.
Revenues from customers inside the U.S. were $754 million and $688 million during the three months ended July 5, 2019 and June 29, 2018, respectively.
There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage any of these risks successfully.
During the three months ended July 5, 2019 and June 29, 2018, we recognized amortization expense of capitalized contract acquisition costs of $28 million and $23 million, respectively.
The outcome of such an investigation is difficult to predict.
The outcome of such an investigation is difficult to predict.
Our solutions are complex and operate in a wide variety of environments, systems, applications, and configurations, which could result in failures of our solutions to function as designed.
We are involved in a number of other judicial and administrative proceedings that are incidental to our business.
•Obtaining sufficient licenses to technology and technical access to operating system software.
We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position, and that the level of these investments will increase in future periods.
Because we offer very complex solutions, undetected errors, failures or bugs may occur, especially when solutions are first introduced or when new versions are released.•Net income and net income per share increased primarily due to the higher operating income, partially offset by higher income tax expense.
Days sales outstanding (DSO) decreased to 34 days in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, compared to 39 days in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage any of these risks successfully.
•Obtaining sufficient licenses to technology and technical access to operating system software.
We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position, and that the level of these investments will increase in future periods.
Because we offer very complex solutions, undetected errors, failures or bugs may occur, especially when solutions are first introduced or when new versions are released.
In particular, term-based license subscriptions and cloud-based products are increasing as a percentage of our total revenues.
If these systems or their functionality do not operate as we expect them to, we may be required to expend significant resources to make corrections or find alternative sources for performing these functions.