Operating segments are based upon the nature of our business and how our business is managed.
Revenues from customers inside the U.S. were $714 million and $1,402 million during the three and six months ended September 28, 2018, respectively, and $713 million and $1,392 million during the three and six months ended September 29, 2017, respectively.
There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage any of these risks successfully.
During the three and six months ended September 28, 2018, as a result of the adoption of the new revenue recognition guidance, our net revenue increased $4 million and $9 million, respectively, and operating expenses decreased $2 million and $11 million, respectively.
In July 2017, we completed our acquisitions of Israel-based Fireglass Ltd. and Skycure Ltd.
Our solutions are complex and operate in a wide variety of environments, systems, applications and configurations, which could result in failures of our solutions to function as designed.
We are involved in a number of other judicial and administrative proceedings that are incidental to our business.
•Obtaining sufficient licenses to technology and technical access to operating system software.
To compete successfully, we must maintain an innovative research and development effort to develop new solutions and enhance our existing solutions, effectively adapt to changes in the technology or product rights held by our competitors, appropriately respond to competitive strategies and effectively adapt to technological changes and changes in the ways that our information is accessed, used and stored within our enterprise and consumer markets.
We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position, and that the level of these investments will increase in future periods.
Because we offer very complex solutions, undetected errors, failures or bugs may occur, especially when solutions are first introduced or when new versions are released.Operating income decreased $105 million primarily due to the divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions which contributed $118 million to segment operating income in the first six months of fiscal 2018.
Operating income decreased $67 million primarily due to the divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions which contributed $59 million to segment operating income in the second quarter of fiscal 2018.There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage any of these risks successfully.
•Obtaining sufficient licenses to technology and technical access to operating system software.
To compete successfully, we must maintain an innovative research and development effort to develop new solutions and enhance our existing solutions, effectively adapt to changes in the technology or product rights held by our competitors, appropriately respond to competitive strategies and effectively adapt to technological changes and changes in the ways that our information is accessed, used and stored within our enterprise and consumer markets.
We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position, and that the level of these investments will increase in future periods.
Because we offer very complex solutions, undetected errors, failures or bugs may occur, especially when solutions are first introduced or when new versions are released.
We sell our solutions to customers around the world through multi-tiered sales and distribution networks.