item1.txt
Historically, the Company maintained a non-contributory defined benefit pension plan that covered substantially all U.S. employees who were employed on December 31, 2011.
In 2018, the Company completed the termination of the non-contributory defined benefit pension plan.
The Company disclosed in its financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2018 that it estimated it would pay $0.4 million in other postretirement benefits in 2019 based on actuarial estimates.
The Company continues to believe that its estimated payments for the full year are reasonable.
Acquisitions are accounted for under the purchase method, and accordingly, the results of operations were included in the Company's financial statements from the date of acquisition.
The IMS acquisition did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements or the notes thereto.
The total purchase consideration was approximately $12.0 million, which included $7.7 million in cash, a $0.3 million working capital adjustment, a balance sheet holdback of $0.7 million and settlement of $3.3 million of pre-existing Company receivables.
The Company's allocation of the purchase price at March 31, 2019 included $3.8 million of receivables, $0.8 million of inventories, $0.1 million of machinery and equipment, $3.6 million of intangibles and $3.7 million of goodwill.
The allocation of the purchase price to the assets acquired was based upon the estimated fair values at the date of acquisition.
As of March 31, 2019, the Company had completed its analysis for estimating the fair value of the assets acquired with no additional adjustments.
In the first quarter of 2019, the Company made a contingent payment of $1.0 million related to the May 1, 2017 acquisition of 100% of the outstanding common stock of D-Flow Technology AB (“D-Flow”).
There is an additional $2.0 million of contingent payments related to the D-Flow acquisition that is anticipated to be made in 2019 which is recorded in payables on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet at June 30, 2019.
The Company applies the accounting standards for fair value measurements and disclosures for its financial assets and financial liabilities.
The carrying amounts of cash, receivables and payables in the financial statements approximate their fair values due to the short-term nature of these financial instruments.
Included in other assets are insurance policies on various individuals who were previously employed by the Company.
In August 2018, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2018-14 “Compensation - Retirement Benefits - Defined Benefit Plans - General (Subtopic 715-20),” which modifies the annual disclosure requirements for defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans.
This ASU as modified added and deleted specific disclosures in an effort to improve the usefulness for financial statement users while also reducing unnecessary costs for companies.
The Company is currently assessing the impact of adopting ASU No. 2018-14.
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-04 “Intangibles - Goodwill and Other (Topic 350).” The update requires a single-step quantitative test to measure potential impairment based on the excess of a reporting unit's carrying amount over its fair value.
The Company adopted ASU No. 2017-04 on January 1, 2019.
The adoption of this standard did not have any impact on the Company’s financial statements.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13 “Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326),” which amends the accounting for credit losses on purchased financial assets and available-for-sale debt securities with credit deterioration.
This ASU requires the measurement of all expected credit losses for financial assets, including accounts receivables, held at the reporting date based upon current conditions, historical experience and reasonable forecasts.
The Company is currently assessing the impact of adopting ASU No. 2016-13.
Lessees can make an accounting policy election not to recognize ROU assets and lease liabilities for leases with a lease term of 12 months or less as long as the leases do not include options to purchase the underlying assets that the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise.
The standard includes the use of a modified retrospective approach for leases that exist or are entered into after the beginning of the earliest comparative period in the financial statements.
In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-11 “Targeted Improvements (Topic 842).” This ASU provides for an optional method of transition which allows companies to adopt the new leasing standard with a cumulative effect adjustment to reinvested earnings.
The Company adopted the new leasing standard with the optional transition methodology as of January 1, 2019.
Revenue for sales of products and services is derived from contracts with customers.
Contracts generally state the terms of sale, including the description, quantity and price of each product or service.
Since the customer typically agrees to a stated rate and price in the contract that does not vary over the life of the contract, the majority of the Company's contracts do not contain variable consideration.
The Company establishes a provision for estimated warranty and returns as well as certain after sale costs as discussed in Note 2 "Additional Financial Information Disclosures" in the Unaudited Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
The Company performs its obligations under a contract by shipping products or performing services in exchange for consideration.
The Company typically invoices its customers as soon as control of an asset is transferred and a receivable to the Company is established.
The Company, however, recognizes a contract liability when a customer prepays for goods or services and the Company has not transferred control of the goods or services.
As of June 30, 2019, the Company had certain contracts where there were unsatisfied performance obligations.
The Company estimates that revenue recognized from satisfying those performance obligations will be approximately $3.9 million in 2019, $1.7 million in each year from 2020 through 2024 and $5.0 million thereafter.
A performance obligation is a promise in a contract to transfer a distinct good or service to the customer, and is the unit of measurement in Topic 606.
At contract inception, the Company assesses the products and services promised in its contracts with customers.
The Company then identifies performance obligations to transfer distinct products or services to the customer.
In order to identify performance obligations, the Company considers all of the products or services promised in the contract regardless of whether they are explicitly stated or are implied by customary business practices.
The Company's performance obligations are satisfied at a point in time or over time as work progresses.
Revenue from products and services transferred to customers at a single point in time accounted for 96.1% and 97.3% of net sales for the three-month periods ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Revenue from products and services transferred to customers at a single point in time accounted for 96.3% and 97.4% of net sales for the six-month periods ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The majority of the Company's revenue recognized at a point in time is for the sale of municipal and flow instrumentation products.
Revenue from these contracts is recognized when the customer is able to direct the use of and obtain substantially all of the benefits from the product which generally coincides with title transfer during the shipping process.
Revenue from services transferred to customers over time accounted for 3.9% and 2.7% of net sales for the three-month periods ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Revenue from services transferred to customers over time accounted for 3.7% and 2.6% of net sales for the six-month periods ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The majority of the Company's revenue that is recognized over time relates to the BEACON® AMA software as a service.
On January 1, 2019, the Company adopted ASU No. 2016-02 and ASU No. 2018-11 using the optional transition method.
The Company has elected certain practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance, which, among other things, allows the Company to carry forward historical lease classifications.


item2.txt
Municipal water, the largest sales category, is comprised of either mechanical or static (ultrasonic) water meters along with the related radio and software technologies and services used by municipal water utilities as the basis for generating their water and wastewater revenues.
The largest geographic market for the Company’s municipal water products is North America, primarily the United States, because most of the Company's meters are designed and manufactured to conform to standards promulgated by the American Water Works Association.
The majority of water meters sold by the Company continue to be mechanical in nature; however, ultrasonic meters are gaining in penetration due to a variety of factors, including their ability to maintain near absolute measurement accuracy over their useful life.
Providing ultrasonic water meter technology, combined with advanced radio technology, provides the Company with the opportunity to sell into other geographical markets, for example, the Middle East and Europe.
The Company’s BEACON Advanced Metering Analytics (AMA) software suite improves the utilities’ visibility of their water and water usage.
Benefits to the utility include improved customer service, increased visibility through faster leak detection, the ability to promote and quantify the effects of its water conservation efforts, and easier compliance reporting.
Water meter replacement and the adoption and deployment of new technology comprise the majority of water meter product sales, including radio products.
Over the last decade, there has been a growing trend in the conversion from manually read water meters to meters with radio technology.
This conversion rate is accelerating, with the Company estimating that approximately 60% of water meters installed in the United States have been converted to a radio solution technology.
Flow instrumentation products are used in flow measurement and control applications across a broad industrial spectrum, occasionally leveraging the same technologies used in the municipal water category.
The Company provides both standard and customized flow instrumentation solutions.
The industries served by the Company’s flow instrumentation products face accelerating demands to contain costs, reduce product variability, and meet ever-changing safety, regulatory and sustainability requirements.
A leader in both mechanical and static (ultrasonic) flow metering technologies for industrial markets, the Company offers one of the broadest flow measurement, control and communication portfolios in the market.
Customers rely on the Company for application-specific solutions that deliver accurate, timely and dependable flow data and control essential for product quality, cost control, safer operations, regulatory compliance and more sustainable operations.
Increasingly, customers in the water utility market are interested in more frequent and diverse data collection.
There are approximately 52,000 water utilities in the United States and the Company estimates that approximately 60% of them have converted to a radio solution.
The Company believes it is well positioned to meet this continuing conversion trend with its comprehensive radio and software solutions.
The total purchase consideration was approximately $12.0 million, which included $7.7 million in cash, a $0.3 million working capital adjustment, a balance sheet holdback of $0.7 million and settlement of $3.3 million of pre-existing Company receivables.
The Company's allocation of the purchase price at June 30, 2018 included $3.8 million of receivables, $0.8 million of inventories, $0.1 million of machinery and equipment, $3.6 million of intangibles and $3.7 million of goodwill.
In the first quarter of 2019, the Company made a contingent payment of $1.0 million related to the May 1, 2017 acquisition of 100% of the outstanding common stock of D-Flow.
There is an additional $2.0 million of contingent payments related to the D-Flow acquisition that is anticipated to be made in 2019 which is recorded in payables on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet at June 30, 2019.
For instance, the Company has made inroads into the Middle East market with its ultrasonic meter technology and is pursuing other geographic expansion opportunities.
The Company is periodically asked to oversee and perform field installation of its products for certain customers.
The Company’s net sales for the three months ended June 30, 2019 were $103.5 million compared to $113.6 million during the same period in 2018.
Sales into the municipal water market were $79.5 million, a decrease of 9.7% from the prior year’s $88.0 million.
The sales decline resulted from customer deferral of orders in order to obtain the latest version of advanced technology products including ORION Cellular LTE-M endpoints, where customer pilots and testing continue without issue.
In addition, newly developed three and four-inch commercial E-Series® Ultrasonic water meters are now expected to begin shipping later this year.
Finally, prior year municipal water sales included a large Middle East order, which did not repeat.
The Company did benefit from continued positive sales mix reflecting a higher percentage of meters with radios, ultrasonic meters and SaaS revenue associated with data collection and software analytics.
Sales of products into the global flow instrumentation end markets were $24.0 million, 6.6% lower than the prior year’s $25.7 million.
Other pension and postretirement costs in the second quarter of 2018 included a settlement charge of $8.2 million in connection with the planned termination of the Company’s pension plan, which was finalized in 2018.
As a result of the above-mentioned items, net earnings for the three months ended June 30, 2019 were $11.4 million, or $0.39 per diluted share, compared to $6.2 million, or $0.21 per diluted share, for the same period in 2018.
The Company’s net sales for the six months ended June 30, 2019 were $208.4 million, a decrease of 4.7% from the comparable prior year’s sales of $218.7 million.
Sales into the municipal water market were $160.7 million, a decline 4.6% over the prior year’s $168.5 million.
Municipal water sales benefitted from modestly higher commercial sales in the U.S., which were more than offset by lower residential volumes in both the US and international markets.
The Company did benefit from continued positive sales mix reflecting a higher percentage of meters with radios, ultrasonic meters and SaaS revenue associated with data collection and software analytics.
Sales of products into the global flow instrumentations end markets were $47.7 million, approximately 5.0% lower than the prior year’s $50.2 million.
The majority of the decline was due lower general industrial demand across the diverse end markets served, as well as unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations year-over-year.
Total operating earnings for the six months ended June 30, 2019 were $29.4 million, or 14.1% of sales, compared to $26.3 million, or 12.0% of sales, in the comparable prior year period.
The gross margin percent increase was largely the result of improved municipal water product mix, the benefit of pricing and lower year-over-year commodity costs, including brass as well as the nonrecurrence of facility relocation charges incurred in the prior year.
SEA expenses for the six months ended June 30, 2019 decreased $0.6 million year-over-year, with normal salary and wage inflation more than offset by spending controls.
As a result of the above-mentioned items, net earnings for the six months ended June 30, 2019 were $22.2 million, or $0.76 per diluted share, compared to $13.7 million, or $0.47 per diluted share, for the same period in 2018.
In addition, depending on market conditions, the Company may access the capital markets to strengthen its capital position and to provide additional liquidity for general corporate purposes.
Overall, PWC declined $10.6 million compared to the previous calendar year end.
Receivables at June 30, 2019 declined $6.0 million due to both lower sales volumes as well as effective collection efforts.
Inventories increased modestly at June 30, 2019 with higher backlog, while Payables at June 30, 2019 were $7.1 million higher than year end due to the timing of payments.
Cash provided by operations in the first six months of 2019 was $40.9 million compared to $25.2 million in the same period of 2018.
Short-term debt decreased $13.5 million to $4.6 million at June 30, 2019 from $18.1 million at December 31, 2018 due to the strong cash flow from operations, partially offset by the payment of dividends.
At the end of the second quarter of 2019, the Company is in a net cash (cash less short-term debt) position of $19.3 million.
The Company believes that its operating cash flows, available borrowing capacity, and its ability to raise capital provide adequate resources to fund ongoing operating requirements, future capital expenditures and the development of new products.
The Company continues to take advantage of its local commercial paper market and carefully monitors the current borrowing market.
The Company had $128.4 million of unused credit lines available at June 30, 2019.
The following table provides information about the Company's purchases during the quarter ended June 30, 2019 of equity securities that are registered by the Company pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act.


