item1.txt
(the “Company” or “Badger Meter”) contain all adjustments (consisting only of normal recurring accruals except as otherwise discussed) necessary to present fairly the Company’s consolidated condensed financial position at March 31, 2018, results of operations for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, comprehensive income for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, and cash flows for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2018 and 2017.
The Company maintains a non-contributory defined benefit pension plan that covers substantially all U.S. employees who were employed at December 31, 2011.
The Company plans to terminate the pension plan in 2018, but there will be no accounting recognition until the final disposition of assets occurs.
The Company disclosed in its financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 that it was not required to make a minimum contribution to the defined benefit pension plan for the 2018 calendar year.
The Company also disclosed in its financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 that it estimated it would pay $0.4 million in other postretirement benefits in 2018 based on actuarial estimates.
The Company continues to believe that its estimated payments for the full year are reasonable.
The total purchase consideration for the Carolina Meter assets was $6.2 million, which included $2.0 million in cash and settlement of $4.2 million of pre-existing Company receivables.
The Company's preliminary allocation of the purchase price at December 31, 2017 included $0.6 million of receivables, $0.3 million of inventory, $3.3 million of intangibles and $2.0 million of goodwill.
The preliminary allocation of the purchase price to the assets acquired was based upon the estimated fair values at the date of acquisition.
As of March 31, 2018, the Company had not completed its analysis for estimating the fair value of the assets acquired.
The purchase price included $5.4 million in payments that are anticipated to be made in 2018 which are recorded in payables and other current liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at March 31, 2018.
The Company's preliminary allocation of the purchase price included approximately $0.3 million in receivables, $0.6 million in inventory, $0.2 million in property, plant and equipment, $10.9 million of intangibles and $16.1 million of goodwill.
The Company also assumed $4.9 million of liabilities as part of the acquisition.
As of March 31, 2018, the Company has completed its analysis for estimating the fair value of the assets acquired with no additional adjustments.
A future change in circumstances with respect to specific matters or with respect to sites formerly or currently owned or operated by the Company, off-site disposal locations used by the Company, and property owned by third parties that is near such sites, could result in future costs to the Company and such amounts could be material.
The Company believes these items would be available from other sources, but that the loss of certain suppliers would result in a higher cost of materials, delivery delays, short-term increases in inventory and higher quality control costs in the short term.
For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, the Company recognized a discrete tax benefit related to the excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation of $0.3 million and $0.2 million, respectively.
The Company applies the accounting standards for fair value measurements and disclosures for its financial assets and financial liabilities.
Included in other assets are insurance policies on various individuals who were associated with the Company.
The IMS acquisition will be accounted for under the purchase method, and accordingly, the results of operations will be included in the Company's financial statements from the date of acquisition.
The acquisition will not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements or the notes thereto.
The adoption of this standard did not have an impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
In March 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-07 “Compensation - Retirement Benefits (Topic 715),” which changes the presentation of defined benefit and post-retirement benefit plan expense on the income statement by requiring separation between operating and non-operating expense.
Under the ASU, the service cost of net periodic benefit expense is an operating expense that will be reported with similar compensation costs.
The ASU was adopted by the Company on January 1, 2018.
In the Consolidated Statements of Operations, the Company previously recorded service and other (benefits) costs in operating cost and expense accounts along with compensation costs.
The adoption of the standard resulted in reclassification of those (benefits) costs to the other pension and postretirement (benefits) costs line in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Adoption of the standard reduced operating earnings for the first quarter of 2018 by $19,000 and established that amount in other pension and postretirement (benefits) costs.
Lessees initially recognize a lease liability (measured at the present value of the lease payments over the lease term) and a right-of-use ("ROU") asset (measured at the lease liability amount, adjusted for lease prepayments, lease incentives received and the lessee's initial direct costs).
The ASU is effective for the Company beginning on January 1, 2019 and early adoption is permitted.
The Company is continuing to evaluate the impact that the adoption of this guidance will have on its financial condition, results of operations and the presentation of its consolidated financial statements.
The Company expects that upon adoption the most significant impact will be the recognition of right of use assets and lease liabilities for operating leases on the Company's consolidated balance sheet.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09 "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)." ASU 2014-09 provides a single principles-based, five-step model to be applied to all contracts with customers.
The five steps are to identify the contract(s) with the customer, to identify the performance obligations in the contract, to determine the transaction price, to allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract and to recognize revenue when each performance obligation 
In addition, the standard requires disclosure of the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers.
Effective January 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2014-09 using the modified retrospective method, which resulted in an immaterial impact.
On January 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2014-09 using the modified retrospective method applied to those contracts that were not completed or substantially complete as of January 1, 2018.
Results for the reporting period beginning after January 1, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while prior period amounts have not been adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with the Company's historic accounting under Topic 605.
The Company recorded a net reduction to opening retained earnings of $0.1 million as of January 1, 2018 as a result of the cumulative impact of adopting Topic 606.
Revenue for sales of products and services is derived from contracts with customers.
Contracts with each customer generally state the terms of the sale, including the description, quantity and price of each product or service.
Since the customer typically agrees to a stated rate and price in the contract that does not vary over the life of the contract, the majority of the Company's contracts do not contain variable consideration.
The Company establishes a provision for estimated warranty and returns as well as certain after sale costs as discussed in Note 2 "Additional Financial Information Disclosures." 
The balance of contract assets was immaterial as the Company did not have a significant amount of uninvoiced receivables in the period ended March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017.
The amount of revenue recognized in the period that was included in the opening contract liability balance was $0.3 million.
The difference between the opening and closing balances of the Company's contract liabilities was the result of a timing difference between the Company's performance and the customers' prepayments.
A performance obligation is a promise in a contract to transfer a distinct good or service to the customer, and is the unit of measurement in Topic 606.
At contract inception, the Company assesses the products and services promised in its contracts with customers.
The Company then identifies performance obligations to transfer distinct products or services to the customer.
In order to identify performance obligations, the Company considers all of the products or services promised in the contract regardless of whether they are explicitly stated or are implied by customary business practices.
The Company's performance obligations are satisfied at a point in time or over time as work progresses.
Revenue from products and services transferred to customers at a single point in time accounted for 97.4% of net sales for the three-month period ended March 31, 2018.
The majority of the Company's revenue recognized at a point in time is for the sale of municipal and flow instrumentation products.
Revenue from these contracts is recognized when the customer is able to direct the use of and obtain substantially all of the benefits from the product which generally coincides with title transfer during the shipping process.
As of March 31, 2018, the Company had entered into contracts where there were unsatisfied performance obligations.
For contracts recorded as long-term liabilities, $8.6 million was the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to performance obligations that were unsatisfied or partially unsatisfied as of the end of the reporting period.
The Company estimates that revenue recognized from satisfying those performance obligations will be approximately $1.4 million for the remainder of 2018 and $1.8 million in each year from 2019 through 2022.
The Company records revenue for BEACON AMA services over time as the customer benefits from the data that is provided through the Company's software.
Control of an asset is therefore transferred to the customer over time, and the Company will recognize revenue for Beacon AMA services as service units are used by the customer.
The Company also has contracts that include both the sale and installation of flow meters as performance obligations.
In those cases, the Company records revenue for installed flow meters at the point in time when the flow meters have been accepted by the customer.
Therefore, for both the flow meter and the related installation, the Company has concluded that control is transferred to the customer upon customer acceptance of the installed flow meters.
The types and composition of the Company's revenue streams did not materially change during the three-month period ended March 31, 2018 from year end 2017.
The transaction price for a contract is allocated to each distinct performance obligation and recognized as revenue when, or as, each performance obligation is satisfied.
For contracts with multiple performance obligations, the Company allocates the contract's transaction price to each performance obligation using the best estimate of the standalone selling price of each distinct good or service in a contract.
The Company has made an accounting policy election to exclude all taxes by governmental authorities from the measurement of the transaction price.


item2.txt
Municipal water, the largest category by sales volume, includes mechanical and ultrasonic (electronic) water meters and related technologies and services used by municipal water utilities as the basis for generating water and wastewater revenues.
The key market for the Company’s municipal water meter products is North America, primarily the United States, because most of the Company's meters are designed and manufactured to conform to standards promulgated by the American Water Works Association.
The majority of water meters sold by the Company continue to be mechanical in nature.
In recent years, the Company has made inroads in selling ultrasonic water meters.
The development of smaller diameter ultrasonic water meters combined with advanced radio technology now provides the Company with the opportunity to sell into other geographical markets, for example Europe, the Middle East and South America.
In the municipal water category, sales of water meters and related technologies and services are also commonly referred to as residential or commercial water meter sales, the latter referring to larger sizes of water meters.
The Company’s BEACON AMA Managed Solution is the latest in metering technology.
The Company’s net sales and corresponding net earnings depend on unit volume and product mix, with the Company generally earning higher margins on meters equipped with radio technology.
The Company’s proprietary radio products generally 
Water meter replacement and the adoption and deployment of new technology comprise the majority of water meter product sales, including radio products.
Over the last decade, there has been a growing trend in the conversion from manually read water meters to radio technology.
This conversion rate is accelerating and contributes to an increased water meter and radio solutions base of business.
The Company estimates that approximately 55% to 60% of water meters installed in the United States have been converted to a radio solutions technology.
The Company’s strategy is to fulfill customers’ metering expectations and requirements with its proprietary meter reading systems or other systems available through its alliance partners in the marketplace.
Flow instrumentation products serve flow measurement and control applications across a broad industrial spectrum, occasionally leveraging the same technologies used in the municipal water category.
The Company’s specific flow measurement and control applications and technologies serve the flow measurement market through both customized and standard flow instrumentation solutions.
An industry leader in both mechanical and electrical flow metering technologies, the Company offers one of the broadest flow measurement, control and communication portfolios in the market.
Customers rely on the Company for application-specific solutions that deliver accurate, timely and dependable flow data and control essential for product quality, cost control, safer operations, regulatory compliance, and more sustainable operations.
Increasingly, the electric utility industry relies on AMI technology for two-way communication to monitor and control electrical devices at the customer's site.
Although the Company does not sell products for electric market applications, the trend toward AMI affects the markets in which the Company does participate, particularly for those customers in the water utility market that are interested in more frequent and diverse data collection.
Specifically, AMI and AMA technologies enable water utilities to capture readings from each meter at more frequent and variable intervals.
Similar to the electric utility industry’s conversion to solid-state meters in recent years, the water utility industry is beginning the conversion from mechanical to ultrasonic meters.
The total purchase consideration for the Carolina Meter assets was $6.2 million, which included $2.0 million in cash and settlement of $4.2 million of pre-existing Company receivables.
The Company's preliminary allocation of the purchase price at December 31, 2017 included $0.6 million of receivables, $0.3 million of inventory, $3.3 million of intangibles and $2.0 million of goodwill.
As of March 31, 2018, the Company has not completed its analysis for estimating the fair value of the assets acquired.
The purchase price included $5.4 million in payments that are anticipated to be made in 2018 which are recorded in payables and other current liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at March 31, 2018.
The Company's preliminary allocation of the purchase price included approximately $0.3 million in receivables, $0.6 million in inventory, $0.2 million in machinery and equipment, $10.9 million of intangibles and $16.1 million of goodwill.
The Company also assumed $4.9 million of liabilities as part of the acquisition.
As of March 31, 2018, the Company has completed its analysis for estimating the fair value of the assets acquired with no additional adjustments.
As the industry continues to evolve, the Company has been vigilant in anticipating and exceeding customer expectations.
In 2011, the Company introduced AMA as a hardware and software solution for water and gas utilities, and then in early 2014 launched its new BEACON AMA system, as a managed solution, which it believes will help maintain the Company's position as a market leader.
Since its inception, sales of BEACON AMA have continued to grow with large cities and private water utilities selecting BEACON AMA and the Company’s industry-leading water meters.
For instance, the Company is periodically asked to oversee and perform field installation of its products for certain customers.
The Company also supports its product and technology sales with the sale of extended service programs that provide additional services beyond the standard warranty.
In recent years, the Company has sold ORION radio technology to natural gas utilities for installation on their gas meters.
Revenues from such products and services are not yet significant and the Company is uncertain of the potential growth achievable for such products and services in future periods.
The Company’s net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased $3.4 million, or 3.3%, to $105.0 million compared to $101.6 million during the same period in 2017.
Flow instrumentation products represented 23.3% of sales for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to 22.7% during the same period in 2017.
Selling, engineering and administration expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased $1.7 million, or 6.8%, to $26.8 from $25.1 million in the first quarter of 2017.
As a result of the above-mentioned items, net earnings for the three months ended March 31, 2018 were $7.5 million, or $0.26 per diluted share, compared to $8.7 million, or $0.30 per diluted share, for the same period in 2017.
Generally, receivable balances are lower at year-end than at other times of the year due to seasonality in the Company’s business.
The Company believes its net receivables balance is fully collectible.
In September 2016, the Company amended its May 2012 credit agreement with its primary lender to a three-year $125.0 million line of credit that supports commercial paper (up to $70.0 million) and includes $5.0 million of a Euro line of credit.
The Company believes that its operating cash flows, available borrowing capacity, and its ability to raise capital provide adequate resources to fund ongoing operating requirements, future capital expenditures and the development of new products.
The Company had $85.4 million of unused credit lines available at March 31, 2018.


