Item 3.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 

Market risk is the potential loss arising from fluctuations in market rates and prices.
Our market risk exposures primarily include fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk 

We transact business in many different foreign currencies and may be exposed to financial market risk resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.
Revenues and related expenses generated from our international operations are generally denominated in their respective local currencies.
Primary currencies include Euros, British pounds, Australian dollars, South Korean won, Chinese yuan, and Swedish krona.
To the extent the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency-denominated transactions will result in reduced revenues, operating expenses, net income, and cash flows from our international operations.
Similarly, our revenues, operating expenses, net income, and cash flows will increase for our international operations if the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies.
Since we have significant international sales, but incur the majority of our costs in the United States, the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, particularly the strengthening of the U.S. dollar, may have an asymmetric and disproportional impact on our business.
We monitor currency volatility throughout the year.
To mitigate our foreign currency risk resulting from our foreign currency-denominated monetary assets, liabilities, and earnings and our foreign currency risk related to functional currency-equivalent cash flows resulting from our intercompany transactions, we periodically enter into currency derivative contracts, principally forward contracts.
These forward contracts generally have a maturity of less than one year.
The counterparties for our currency derivative contracts are large and reputable commercial or investment banks.
The fair values of our foreign currency contracts are estimated based on the prevailing exchange rates of the various hedged currencies as of the end of the period.
We do not hold or purchase any foreign currency forward contracts for trading or speculative purposes.
Table of Contents 

Foreign Currency Forward Contracts Designated as Hedges (“Cash Flow Hedges”) 



At March 31, 2018, our Cash Flow Hedges have remaining maturities of 12 months or less.
Additionally, approximately $5 million of net realized but unrecognized losses are recorded within “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)” at March 31, 2018 for Cash Flow Hedges that had settled but were deferred and will be amortized into earnings, along with the associated hedged revenues.
Such amounts will be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months.
Foreign Currency Forward Contracts Not Designated as Hedges 



For the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, pre-tax net gains associated with these forward contracts were recorded in “General and administrative expenses” and were not material.
In the absence of hedging activities for the three months ended March 31, 2018, a hypothetical adverse foreign currency exchange rate movement of 10% would have resulted in a theoretical decline of our net income of approximately $32 million.
This sensitivity analysis assumes a parallel adverse shift of all foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar; however, all foreign currency exchange rates do not always move in this manner and actual results may differ materially.
Interest Rate Risk 

Our exposure to market rate risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio and variable rate debt pursuant to the credit agreement we entered into on October 11, 2013, as amended thereafter and from time to time.
We currently do not use derivative financial instruments to manage interest rate risk.
As of both March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, a hypothetical interest rate change on our variable rate debt of one percent (100 basis points) would have changed interest expense on an annual basis by approximately $10 million.
This estimate does not include a change in interest income from our investment portfolio that may result from such a hypothetical interest rate change, nor does it include the effects of other actions that we may take in the future to mitigate this risk, or any changes in our financial structure.
Refer to Note 10 of the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for disclosures regarding interest rates associated with our debt obligations.
Table of Contents 

Our investment portfolio consists primarily of money market funds and government securities with high credit quality and short average maturities.
Because short-term securities mature relatively quickly and must be reinvested at the then-current market rates, interest income on a portfolio consisting of cash, cash equivalents, or short-term securities is more subject to market fluctuations than a portfolio of longer-term securities.
Conversely, the fair value of such a portfolio is less sensitive to market fluctuations than a portfolio of longer-term securities.
At March 31, 2018, our $5.22 billion of cash and cash equivalents was comprised primarily of money market funds.
The Company has determined that, based on the composition of our investment portfolio as of March 31, 2018, there was no material interest rate risk exposure to the Company’s consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity as of that date.
