fls.txt
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this report and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K.


item1.txt
Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
In the opinion of the Company’s management, all adjustments that are of a normal recurring nature, considered necessary for fair presentation, have been included in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements.
ASU 2016-02 requires a lessee to recognize in the statement of financial position a liability to make lease payments (the lease liability) and a right-of-use (“ROU”) asset representing its right to use the underlying asset for the lease term from operating leases.
For leases with a term of 12 months or less, a lessee is permitted to make an accounting policy election by class of underlying asset not to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities.
In transition, lessees and lessors were originally required to recognize and measure leases at the beginning of the earliest period presented using a modified retrospective approach.
The adoption of the new standard had a material effect on the Company’s financial statements, with the most significant effects of adoption relating to (1) the recognition of new right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on its balance sheet for real estate operating leases; and (2) providing significant new disclosures about its leasing activities.
There was no impact to stockholders’ equity from the adoption.
2016-13 revises the methodology for measuring credit losses on financial instruments and the timing of when such losses are recorded.
2016-13 is effective for the Company in the first quarter of 2020, with early adoption permitted, and is to be applied using a modified retrospective approach.


item2.txt
Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 18, 2019.
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this report and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The “Lifeboat Distribution” segment distributes technical software and hardware to corporate resellers, value added resellers (VARs), consultants and systems integrators worldwide.
In our TechXtend segment sales are generally driven by sales force effectiveness and success in providing superior customer service, competitive pricing, and flexible payment solutions to our customers.
$0.1 million during the three months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
We adopted ASC 606 Revenue from Contracts with Customers on a retrospective basis effective January 1, 2018.
Under ASC 606 net sales for certain maintenance, service and security products we sell are recorded net of the related cost of sales.
We refer to these items as being recorded on a “net basis” in the discussion below.
Software and hardware products for which sales and cost of sales are reported on separate line items are referred to as being recorded on a gross basis.
The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
These estimates require significant judgement to determine whether the software’s functionality is dependent on ongoing maintenance or if substantially all functionality is available in the original software download.
We also use judgement in the allocation of sales proceeds among performance obligations, utilizing observable data such as stand-alone selling prices, or market pricing for similar products and services.
The related customer receivables are classified as accounts receivable long-term and discounted to their present value at prevailing market rates at the time of sale.
The amounts under these long-term accounts receivable due within one year are reclassified to the current portion of accounts receivable.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
(1)    Includes 1,862 shares surrendered to the Company by employees to satisfy individual tax withholding obligations upon vesting of previously issued shares of Restricted Stock.


