The condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements contained in this report include the accounts of Watsco, all of its wholly owned subsidiaries and the accounts of three joint ventures with Carrier Corporation (“Carrier”), in each of which Watsco maintains a controlling interest.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued guidance on accounting for leases, which requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets for the rights and obligations created by those leases.
In July 2018, the FASB issued updated guidance that provides an additional transition method of adoption that allows entities to initially apply the standard at the adoption date and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.
The adoption of this standard and its related amendments (collectively, the “New Lease Standard”) on January 1, 2019 did not result in the recognition of a cumulative adjustment to opening retained earnings under the additional transition method, nor did it have a significant impact on our consolidated statements of income or cash flows.
Under this updated standard, an entity should recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value, but the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.
We elected the package of practical expedients which did not require us to reassess (1) whether existing contracts contain embedded leases, (2) the lease classification of existing leases, and (3) whether initial direct costs for existing leases would qualify for capitalization under the New Lease Standard.
We also elected the practical expedients related to short-term leases and separating lease components from non-lease components for all underlying asset classes.
We have operating leases for real property, vehicles and equipment, and finance leases primarily for vehicles.
Finance lease ROU assets at June 30, 2019 of $2,759 are included in property and equipment, net in our condensed consolidated unaudited balance sheet.In 2009, we formed a joint venture with Carrier Corporation (“Carrier”), which we refer to as Carrier Enterprise I, in which Carrier contributed 95 of its company-owned locations in 13 Sun Belt states and Puerto Rico, and its export division in Miami, Florida, and we contributed 15 locations that distributed Carrier products.
In 2012, we formed a third joint venture, which we refer to as Carrier Enterprise III, with UTC Canada Corporation, referred to as UTC Canada, an affiliate of Carrier.
Revenues for the second quarter of 2019 increased $39.1 million, or 3%, including $22.8 million from locations opened and acquired during the preceding 12 months, offset by $3.6 million from locations closed.
On a same-store basis, revenues increased $19.9 million, or 1%, as compared to the same period in 2018, reflecting a 3% increase in sales of HVAC equipment (69% of sales), which included a 4% increase in residential HVAC equipment, a 2% decrease in sales of other HVAC products (28% of sales) and a 1% decrease in sales of commercial refrigeration products (3% of sales).
Gross profit for the second quarter of 2019 increased $7.2 million, or 2%, primarily as a result of increased revenues.
Selling, general and administrative expenses for the second quarter of 2019 increased $10.0 million, or 5%, primarily due to increased revenues.
Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of revenues for the quarter ended June 30, 2019 increased to 14.3% versus 14.0% for the same period in 2018.
Excluding new locations opened or acquired during the last 12 months, selling, general and administrative expenses increased $4.6 million, or 2%.
Other income of $3.0 million and $3.2 million for the second quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively, represented our share of the net income of RSI.