fls.txt



item1.txt
We are the world’s leading cloud software company powering social good.
As of March 31, 2018, we had over 40,000 customers.
The consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2017, has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements at that date.
In order to provide comparability between periods presented, those amounts of revenue have been combined within "recurring" revenue in the previously reported consolidated statements of comprehensive income to conform to presentation of the current period.
Our chief operating decision maker is our chief executive officer ("CEO").
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) ("ASU 2014-09"), which outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers.
We utilized the 'portfolio approach' practical expedient in ASC 606-10-10-4, which allows entities to apply the guidance to a portfolio of contracts with similar characteristics because the effects on the financial statements of this approach would not differ materially from applying the guidance to individual contracts.
We do not generally pay commissions for contract renewals.
•Recognition of revenue when, or as, we satisfy a performance obligation.
Therefore, recurring revenue is generally recognized over time on a ratable basis over the contract term, beginning on the date that the solution or service is made available to the customer.
Our payment services are offered with the assistance of third-party vendors.


item2.txt
We are the world’s leading cloud software company powering social good.
Serving the industry for more than three decades, we are headquartered in Charleston, South Carolina and have operations in the United States, Australia, Canada and the United Kingdom.
As of March 31, 2018, we had over 40,000 customers.
We believe that attaching training, analytics, and payments to a deal improves the customer experience, improves outcomes, drives retention, and extends the customer lifetime value.
3.Expand TAM into Near Adjacencies through Acquisitions and Product Investments We continue to evaluate compelling opportunities to acquire companies and acquire or build technologies and services.
We are focused on operational efficiency to strengthen the business and deliver improved profitability.
We have made transformational changes in the business, including infrastructure investments, productivity initiatives, and organizational re-alignments, to drive us towards a more scalable operating model that creates efficiency and consistency in how we execute.
Over the last several years, we have created an operational excellence function inside of Blackbaud to focus on maximizing the effectiveness of the business through continuous improvement.
Restructuring costs expected to be incurred consist primarily of costs to terminate existing lease agreements as well as contractual lease payments, net of estimated sublease income, upon vacating space as part of the plan.
We have incurred cumulative before-tax restructuring costs of $1.6 million related to this plan as of March 31, 2018.
These restructuring activities are expected to result in future annual before-tax savings of between $3.0 million and $4.0 million beginning in 2020.
Income from operations increased during the three months ended March 31, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017.
Our recurring revenue contracts are generally for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter.
Due primarily to these factors, we believe a recurring revenue customer retention measure that combines recurring subscription, maintenance and service customer contracts provides an accurate representation of our customers' overall behavior.
In the near term, our recurring revenue customer retention rate may modestly decrease driven by our efforts to rationalize our portfolio of solutions and migrate customers from legacy solutions towards our next generation cloud-based solutions.
On April 30, 2018, we acquired all of the outstanding equity securities, including all voting equity interests, of Reeher LLC, a Minnesota limited liability company (“Reeher”), pursuant to a securities purchase agreement.
We acquired the equity securities for an aggregate purchase price of $43.0 million, subject to certain adjustments set forth in the securities purchase agreement.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



