fls.txt



item1.txt
We are the world’s leading cloud software company powering social good.
As of June 30, 2018, we had over 40,000 customers.
The consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2017, has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements at that date.
In order to provide comparability between periods presented, those amounts of revenue have been combined within "recurring" revenue in the previously reported consolidated statements of comprehensive income to conform to presentation of the current period.
Our chief operating decision maker is our chief executive officer ("CEO").
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) ("ASU 2014-09"), which outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers.
We utilized the 'portfolio approach' practical expedient in ASC 606-10-10-4, which allows entities to apply the guidance to a portfolio of contracts with similar characteristics because the effects on the financial statements of this approach would not differ materially from applying the guidance to individual contracts.
We do not generally pay commissions for contract renewals.
Select adjusted unaudited financial statement information, which reflects our adoption of ASU 2014-09 is set forth below.
•Recognition of revenue when, or as, we satisfy a performance obligation.
Therefore, recurring revenue is generally recognized over time on a ratable basis over the contract term, beginning on the date that the solution or service is made available to the customer.
Our payment services are offered with the assistance of third-party vendors.


item2.txt
We are the world’s leading cloud software company powering social good.
Serving the industry for more than three decades, we are headquartered in Charleston, South Carolina and have operations in the United States, Australia, Canada and the United Kingdom.
As of June 30, 2018, we had over 40,000 customers.
We expect the general release of Blackbaud Church Management in mid-2019.
We are making investments to increase the effectiveness of our sales organization, with a focus on enabling our sales teams with the processes and tools to accelerate our revenue growth and improve productivity.
selling strategy by vertical, focused on recurring revenue and driving more products per customer, higher ASP's, and increased customer retention over the long-term.
We believe that attaching training, analytics, and payments to a deal improves the cloud experience, drives customer outcomes, improves retention, and increases customer lifetime value.
We continue to develop and acquire solutions that create value for our customers.
These capabilities not only provide customers with performance insight but also quantify the value of improving their performance and refer them to specific tools inside of the Raiser's Edge NXT to drive growth.
3.Expand TAM into Near Adjacencies through Acquisitions and Product Investments We continue to evaluate compelling opportunities to acquire companies and acquire or build technologies and services.
We are focused on operational efficiency to strengthen the business and deliver improved profitability.
We continue driving towards a more scalable operating model that creates efficiency and consistency in how we execute through infrastructure investments, productivity initiatives and organizational re-alignments.
During the second quarter of 2018, we moved into our new global headquarters and the employee feedback has been overwhelmingly positive.
The new facility is also home to the new Blackbaud Innovation Center, a high-tech meeting space where customers, partners, community leaders and influencers across the industry can convene to turn action into impact.
Restructuring costs incurred to date and expected to be incurred consist primarily of costs to terminate existing lease agreements as well as contractual lease payments, net of estimated sublease income, upon vacating space as part of the plan.
We have incurred cumulative before-tax restructuring costs of $5.3 million related to this plan as of June 30, 2018.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



