fls.txt
These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict.


item1.txt
We are the world’s leading cloud software company powering social good.
The consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2018, has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements at that date.
Our chief operating decision maker is our chief executive officer ("CEO").
ASU 2016-02 requires lessees to record most leases on their balance sheet but recognize expenses in the income statement in a manner similar to previous guidance.
Additionally, we elected not to apply the recognition requirements of the new lease accounting standard to short-term leases.
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception.
As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments.
Our lease terms may include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option.
Lease expense for lease payments related to our operating leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
We do not recognize short-term leases (those that, at the commencement date, have a lease term of 12 months or less) on our consolidated balance sheets.
The adjustment resulted in an increase to net working capital, excluding deferred revenue, with the corresponding offset to goodwill.
The method of amortization of identifiable finite-lived intangible assets is based on the expected pattern in which the estimated economic benefits of the respective assets are consumed or otherwise used up.


item2.txt
We are the world’s leading cloud software company powering social good.
Serving the industry for more than three decades, we are headquartered in Charleston, South Carolina and have operations in the United States, Australia, Canada, Costa Rica and the United Kingdom.
Churches can also add other Blackbaud capabilities from the Cloud Solution for Faith Communities as their needs scale—all through one integrated experience, which is powered by the Blackbaud SKY platform.
Bringing this solution to market is a significant step toward addressing several challenges in the church market and a substantial opportunity for Blackbaud.
During the second quarter of 2019, we continued to progress in the U.S. rollout of Blackbaud Peer-to-Peer Fundraising, powered by JustGiving.
The market response to this new solution has been positive, with a growing number of customers going live with active campaigns.
We also continue to rapidly advance our existing applications and bring new solutions to market, enabling our sales teams to sell more.
Since January, we have moved quickly on back-office integration so we can focus on the opportunity ahead of us, which is significant given the trend in institutions of all sizes focusing on corporate social responsibility.
We are focused on operational efficiency to strengthen the business and position us for long-term success.
This continuous effort spans the entire organization as we drive towards a more scalable operating model that creates efficiency and consistency in how we execute through infrastructure investments, productivity initiatives, and organizational re-alignments.
We have spent the last several years creating one global sales operating model, which allows us to recruit, hire, train and track the progress of a growing sales team in a way we could not have done in the past.
In addition, we have continued executing against our workplace strategy, working to replace and upgrade some of our existing offices and expand our footprint into new locations for customer facing roles.
This has been a multi-year program for us, and we expect to be largely complete by the end of 2019.
We are also selling more subscription-based contracts for retained services and services embedded in our renewable cloud-based solution contracts.
As a result, we continue to expect one-time services and other revenue to decline.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



