fls.txt
These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict.


item1.txt
We are the world’s leading cloud software company powering social good.
The consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2018, has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements at that date.
Our chief operating decision maker is our chief executive officer ("CEO").
ASU 2016-02 requires lessees to record most leases on their balance sheet but recognize expenses in the income statement in a manner similar to previous guidance.
Additionally, we elected not to apply the recognition requirements of the new lease accounting standard to short-term leases.
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception.
As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments.
Our lease terms may include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option.
Lease expense for lease payments related to our operating leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
We do not recognize short-term leases (those that, at the commencement date, have a lease term of 12 months or less) on our consolidated balance sheets.
We acquired the equity securities for an aggregate purchase price of $157.7 million in cash, net of closing adjustments.
The adjustments resulted in an increase to net working capital, excluding deferred revenue, with the corresponding offset to goodwill.


item2.txt
We are the world’s leading cloud software company powering social good.
Serving the industry for more than three decades, we are headquartered in Charleston, South Carolina and have operations in the United States, Australia, Canada, Costa Rica and the United Kingdom.
1.Delight Customers with Innovative Cloud Solutions This strategy reflects our relentless focus on driving value and outcomes for our customers through our solutions.
The customers we serve require vertical specific business solutions to automate their operations.
Within just one year of announcing plans for Blackbaud Church Management, we now serve churches in more than half of the 50 U.S. states, representing congregations of all different sizes and spanning more than 10 denominations.
Bringing this solution to market is a significant step toward addressing several challenges in the church market and a substantial opportunity for Blackbaud.
As corporate social responsibility programs are implemented around the world, it is becoming increasingly important for companies to have acute local knowledge in the countries where employees are accessing their programs and to remove any functionality barriers.
We recently announced expansion in YourCause's global footprint by developing in-market partnerships to advance employee giving and nonprofit support globally, while also implementing key product features for universal functionality.
We are also focused on operational efficiency to strengthen the business and position us for long-term success.
This continuous effort spans the entire organization as we drive towards a more scalable operating model that creates efficiency and consistency in how we execute through infrastructure investments, productivity initiatives, and organizational re-alignments.
As a result, we continue to expect one-time services and other revenue to decline.
Income from operations decreased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018.
Contributing to the decreases in income from operations were increases in stock-based compensation of $4.1 million and $7.9 million, respectively, and hosting and data center costs of $1.0 million and $4.0 million, respectively.
Increases in employee severance of $1.9 million, amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $1.8 million and rent expense of $1.7 million, also negatively impacted income from operations during the nine months ended September 30, 2019.
The increase in employee severance was related to the elimination of certain roles within the company, most of which occurred during the first quarter of 2019.
Our recurring revenue contracts are generally for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



