fls.txt
These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict.


item1.txt
We are the world’s leading cloud software company powering social good.
The consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2018, has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements at that date.
Our chief operating decision maker is our chief executive officer ("CEO").
ASU 2016-02 requires lessees to record most leases on their balance sheet but recognize expenses in the income statement in a manner similar to previous guidance.
Additionally, we elected not to apply the recognition requirements of the new lease accounting standard to short-term leases.
Except for the accounting policy added for leases below as a result of adopting ASU 2016-02, there have been no changes to our significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on February 20, 2019, that have had a material impact on our consolidated financial statement.
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception.
As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments.
Our lease terms may include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option.
Lease expense for lease payments related to our operating leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
We do not recognize short-term leases (those that, at the commencement date, have a lease term of 12 months or less) on our consolidated balance sheets.
As a result of the acquisition, YourCause has become a wholly-owned subsidiary of ours.


item2.txt
We are the world’s leading cloud software company powering social good.
Serving the industry for more than three decades, we are headquartered in Charleston, South Carolina and have operations in the United States, Australia, Canada, Costa Rica and the United Kingdom.
During the first quarter of 2019, we announced the U.S. launch of Blackbaud Peer-to-Peer Fundraising, powered by JustGiving.
We also introduced Blackbaud Purchase Cards integrated with Expense Management in Financial Edge NXT providing social good organizations with an efficient and convenient alternative to traditional procurement methods and paper-based payables processes such as checks, purchase orders, and invoices.
With the sales structure transformation now largely done, the focus going forward will be adding additional sales headcount and improving productivity.
We are focused on operational efficiency to strengthen the business and position us for long-term success.
We continue to execute a comprehensive workplace and workforce strategy, driving towards a more scalable operating model that creates efficiency and consistency in how we execute through infrastructure investments, productivity initiatives, and organizational re-alignments.
This has been a multi-year program for us, and we expect to be largely complete by the end of 2019.
The acquisitions of Reeher and YourCause, which occurred after March 31, 2018, also contributed to the increases in recurring and total revenue.
As a result, we continue to expect one-time services and other revenue to decline.
Income from operations decreased during the three months ended March 31, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018.
Increases in stock-based compensation of $2.6 million, employee severance of $2.5 million, rent expense of $1.6 million, restructuring costs of $1.1 million and amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $1.1 million also negatively impacted income from operations during the three months ended March 31, 2019.
The increase in stock-based compensation expense was primarily driven by an increase in the grant date fair value of our annual equity awards granted to employees during the first quarter of 2019, when compared to the grant date fair value of the awards granted during the same period in 2018.
Our recurring revenue contracts are generally for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter.
In the long term, we also anticipate an increase in recurring subscription contract renewals as we continue focusing on innovation, quality and the integration of our cloud-based solutions, which we believe will provide value-adding capabilities to better address our customers' needs.
Due primarily to these factors, we believe a recurring revenue customer retention measure that combines recurring subscription, maintenance and service customer contracts provides a better representation of our customers' overall behavior.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



