fls.txt



item1.txt
We are the world’s leading cloud software company powering social good.
As of September 30, 2018, we had over 40,000 customers.
The consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2017, has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements at that date.
In order to provide comparability between periods presented, those amounts of revenue have been combined within "recurring" revenue in the previously reported consolidated statements of comprehensive income to conform to presentation of the current period.
Our chief operating decision maker is our chief executive officer ("CEO").
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) ("ASU 2014-09"), which outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers.
We utilized the 'portfolio approach' practical expedient in ASC 606-10-10-4, which allows entities to apply the guidance to a portfolio of contracts with similar characteristics because the effects on the financial statements of this approach would not differ materially from applying the guidance to individual contracts.
We do not generally pay commissions for contract renewals.
Select adjusted unaudited financial statement information, which reflects our adoption of ASU 2014-09 is set forth below.
•Recognition of revenue when, or as, we satisfy a performance obligation.
Therefore, recurring revenue is generally recognized over time on a ratable basis over the contract term, beginning on the date that the solution or service is made available to the customer.
Our payment services are offered with the assistance of third-party vendors.


item2.txt
We are the world’s leading cloud software company powering social good.
Serving the industry for more than three decades, we are headquartered in Charleston, South Carolina and have operations in the United States, Australia, Canada, Costa Rica and the United Kingdom.
As of September 30, 2018, we had over 40,000 customers.
We expect the general release of Blackbaud Church Management in mid-2019.
Third, we announced with Microsoft that we are investing in an Integrated Cloud Initiative for Nonprofits™, which will accelerate cloud innovation in areas that address critical market needs across the mission lifecycle of nonprofits.
Nonprofit Resource Management is currently in development in collaboration with early adopters.
The first capability set, Goods Distribution, is expected to be released in the summer of 2019, with program design and others capabilities to follow.
The solution will be sold jointly through Blackbaud and Microsoft partner and sales channels and will work seamlessly with Blackbaud solutions providing a connected experience for the customer.
We are making investments to increase the effectiveness of our sales organization, with a focus on enabling our sales teams with the processes and tools to accelerate our revenue growth and improve productivity.
We believe that attaching training, analytics, and payments improves the cloud experience, drives customer outcomes, improves retention, and increases customer lifetime value.
Our focus has been on driving improved productivity within our existing salesforce through common procedures, training, key operating metrics, compensation plans, and reporting.
3.Expand TAM into Near Adjacencies through Acquisitions and Product Investments We continue to evaluate compelling opportunities to acquire companies and acquire or build technologies and services.
We are focused on operational efficiency to strengthen the business and deliver improved profitability.
We continue driving towards a more scalable operating model that creates efficiency and consistency in how we execute through infrastructure investments, productivity initiatives and organizational re-alignments.
We have incurred cumulative before-tax restructuring costs of $4.4 million related to this plan as of September 30, 2018.
These restructuring activities are currently expected to result in future annual before-tax savings of between $3.0 million and $4.0 million beginning in 2020.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



