PART II -- OTHER INFORMATION



LEGAL PROCEEDINGS



We are presently engaged in various legal actions arising in the normal course of business. We believe that it is unlikely that any of these actions will have a material adverse impact on our operating results; however, because of the inherent uncertainties of litigation, the outcome of any of these actions could be unfavorable and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. For additional information about our material legal proceedings, please see Note 7, Commitments and Contingencies, of the accompanying notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements.



RISK FACTORS 



You should carefully consider the risk factors discussed in Part I, "Item 1A. Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on May 9, 2018 (the "Form 10-K"), and Part II, "Risk Factors" in our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 ended June 30, 2018, filed with the SEC on August 7, 2018, each of which could materially affect our business, financial position, or future results of operations. Except as described below, there have been no material changes to the risk factors included in the Form 10-K. 



If we determine that our goodwill has become impaired, we could incur significant charges that would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations.



As a result of our acquisition of Polycom on July 2, 2018, the amount of goodwill and purchased intangible assets on our consolidated balance sheet and subject to future impairment testing increased substantially from $15.5 million at the end of fiscal year 2018 to more than $2.2 billion as of the end of the second quarter of fiscal year 2019. Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair market value of assets acquired in business combinations. Goodwill impairment analysis and measurement requires significant judgment on the part of management and may be impacted by a wide variety of factors both within and beyond our control.



For instance, any integration process may require significant time and resources, which may disrupt our ongoing business and thereby divert management’s attention from other critical objectives, and we may be unable to successfully manage the integration. Additionally, we may not successfully evaluate or utilize the acquired technology or personnel, realize anticipated synergies from the acquisition, or accurately forecast the financial impact of the acquisition and integration, including accounting charges as well as any potential impairment of goodwill and intangible assets recognized in connection with any acquisition. Furthermore, fluctuations in the price of our stock, changes in applicable laws and regulations, including any that restrict the activities of the acquired business or increase costs, and deterioration of market conditions could unfavorably impact goodwill. 



We are required to annually test goodwill to determine if impairment has occurred, either through a quantitative or qualitative analysis. Additionally, interim reviews must be performed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. If the testing performed indicates that impairment has occurred, we are required to record a non-cash impairment charge for the difference between the carrying value of the goodwill and the implied fair value of the goodwill in the period the determination is made. We cannot accurately predict the amount or timing of any impairment of assets. Should the value of our goodwill become impaired, it could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and could result in our incurring potentially significant net losses in future periods.



UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS



Share Repurchase Programs









On July 27, 2017 the Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase 1,000,000 shares of our common stock from time to time in the market or in privately negotiated repurchases as determined by management.





"Average Price Paid per Share" reflects open market repurchases of common stock only.





These shares reflect the available shares authorized for repurchase under the program approved by the Board on July 27, 2017



OTHER INFORMATION



Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers



On November 2, 2018, the Company’s board of directors approved changes to the severance arrangements previously entered into between the Company and its executive officers (“Executive Officers”), including the named executive officers, Joe Burton, the Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer, Pam Strayer, the Company’s Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Mary Huser, the Company’s Executive Vice President, Chief Legal and Compliance Officer, Jeff Loebbaka, the Company’s Executive Vice President, Global Sales, and Shantanu Sarkar, the Company’s Executive Vice President, Headset Business Unit. Under the terms approved by the board of directors, immediately prior to a Change of Control (as defined in the existing Change of Control agreements currently in effect) all outstanding unvested shares under performance stock unit awards (“PSUs”) will vest at the greater of target performance or actual performance. The Company intends to enter into amended and restated agreements or amendments to existing agreements with each of the Executive Officers reflecting the approved changes.



EXHIBITS 







Plantronics, Inc.





CROSS REFERENCE TABLE





SIGNATURES



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.





