fls.txt



item1.txt
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted as permitted by the SEC.
All inter-company accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
These financial statements should also be read in conjunction with the Company’s critical accounting policies included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended February 3, 2018 and those included in this Form 10-Q below.
The Company’s fiscal year is the 52- or 53-week period ending on the Saturday closest to January 31.
Accordingly, every fifth or sixth fiscal year will have a 53-week period.
The additional week in a 53-week year is added to the fourth quarter, making such quarter consist of 14 weeks.
Fiscal 2018 had a 53-week year.
Fiscal 2019 is a 52-week year.
Cavium designs, develops and markets semiconductor processors for intelligent and secure networks.
See “Note 3 - Business Combination” for more information.
The new standard requires an entity to recognize revenue from the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
In August 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update to add or clarify guidance on the classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments in the statement of cash flows.
The amendments to the guidance should be applied using a retrospective transition method for each period presented and, if it is impracticable to apply all of the amendments retrospectively for some of the issues, the amendments for those issues would be applied prospectively as of the earliest date practicable.
Previous guidance required companies to defer the income tax effects of intra-entity transfers of assets until the asset had been sold to an outside party or otherwise recognized.
As a result, companies will no longer present transfers between cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows.


item2.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), which are subject to the “safe harbor” created by those sections.
•the outcome of pending or future litigation and legal and regulatory proceedings.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
The information under the caption “Contingencies” as set forth in “Note 11 – Commitments and Contingencies” of our Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part I, Item 1, is incorporated herein by reference.
For additional discussion of certain risks associated with legal proceedings, see Part II, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” immediately below.
Investing in our common shares involves a high degree of risk.
We may not fully realize the benefits we expect to receive from the transaction, such as increasing revenue or profits, or receive them in the anticipated time frame.
On July 6, 2018, in connection with our acquisition of Cavium, we incurred substantial indebtedness pursuant to a Credit Agreement.
•making it more difficult to borrow additional funds in the future to fund growth, acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures and other purposes.
The Credit Agreement and the Senior Notes contain customary events of default upon the occurrence of which, after any applicable grace period, the lenders would have the ability to immediately declare the loans due and payable in whole or in part.
The Credit Agreement and the indenture for the Senior Notes each contains a number of covenants imposing restrictions on our business.
The restrictions, among other things, restrict our ability and our subsidiaries’ ability to create or incur certain liens, incur or guarantee additional indebtedness, merge or consolidate with other companies, pay dividends, transfer or sell assets and make restricted payments.


