fls.txt



item1.txt
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted as permitted by the SEC.
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation.
These financial statements should also be read in conjunction with the Company’s critical accounting policies included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended February 2, 2019 and those included in this Form 10-Q below.
Accordingly, every fifth or sixth fiscal year will have a 53-week period.
The additional week in a 53-week year is added to the fourth quarter, making such quarter consist of 14 weeks.
Fiscal 2019 had a 52-week year.
Fiscal 2020 is a 52-week year.
On May 29, 2019, the Company announced its intent to sell its Wi-Fi connectivity business to NXP for $1.76 billion in cash.
The business employs approximately 550 people worldwide and generated approximately $300 million in revenue in the Company's fiscal 2019.
The purchase price will be subject to working capital and other customary adjustments which will be determined at close.
See “Note 4 - Business Combinations” for more information.
Subsequent to quarter end, on November 5, 2019, the Company acquired Avera Semiconductor (“Avera”), the Application Specific Integrated Circuit (“ASIC”) business of GlobalFoundries (“GlobalFoundries”) for $597.5 million in cash at closing.
An additional $90 million in cash will be paid if certain conditions are satisfied within the next 15 months.
Avera is a leading provider of Application Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC) semiconductor solutions.


item2.txt
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), which are subject to the “safe harbor” created by those sections.
•the outcome of pending or future litigation and legal and regulatory proceedings.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof.


item3.txt
Interest Rate Risk.


item4.txt



part2.txt
For additional discussion of certain risks associated with legal proceedings, see Part II, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” immediately below.
Investing in our common shares involves a high degree of risk.
Many of these risks and uncertainties are beyond our control, including business cycles and seasonal trends of the computing, infrastructure, semiconductor and related industries and end markets.
•changes in general economic conditions, such as the impact of Brexit on the economy in the E.U., political conditions, such as the recent tariffs and trade bans, and specific conditions in the end markets we address, including the continuing volatility in the technology sector and semiconductor industry; Accordingly, you may not be able to resell your common shares at or above the price you paid.
Our stock is traded on the Nasdaq stock exchange under the ticker symbol “MRVL”.
Our long-term strategy may include identifying and acquiring, investing in or merging with suitable candidates on acceptable terms, or divesting of certain business lines or activities.
On May 6, 2019, we entered into a definitive merger agreement to acquire all outstanding shares of Aquantia Corp. common stock for $13.25 per share in cash.
On November 5, 2019, we completed the acquisition, paying $597.5 million at closing.
An additional $90 million in cash will be payable if certain business conditions are satisfied by the third quarter of our fiscal 2021.
•unavailability of acquisition financing on reasonable terms or at all.


