The accompanying interim condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with United States (U.S.) generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) for interim financial information and the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X, and should be read in conjunction with the Xilinx, Inc. (Xilinx or the Company) consolidated financial statements filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 1, 2017.
The interim financial statements are unaudited, but reflect all adjustments which are, in the opinion of management, of a normal, recurring nature necessary to provide a fair statement of results for the interim periods presented.
The results of operations for the interim periods shown in this report are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2018 or any future period.
Note 2.Recent Accounting Changes and Accounting Pronouncements In April 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued the authoritative guidance, as amended, that outlines a new global revenue recognition standard that replaces virtually all existing U.S. GAAP guidance on contracts with customers and the related other assets and deferred costs.
The authoritative guidance provides a five-step process for recognizing revenue that depicts the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
The new authoritative guidance is required to be applied retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented, or retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying it recognized at the date of initial application.
The Company is currently evaluating the full impact of this new authoritative guidance on its consolidated financial statements, including selection of the transition method.
However, assuming all other revenue recognition criteria have been met, it is expected that the new authoritative guidance would require the Company to recognize revenue and cost relating to distributor sales upon product delivery (Sell-In), subject to estimated allowance for distributor price adjustments and rights of return, rather than deferring the distributor sales upon product delivery and subsequently recognizing revenue when the product is sold by the distributor to the end customer (Sell-Through).
Upon adoption, the Company currently expects that it will record the balance of the deferred revenue (subject to true-ups) under Sell-Through to retained earnings, and the impact would be offset by the recognition of revenue on shipments post adoption under Sell-In.
The Company continues to evaluate the impact to revenues and related disclosures related to the pending adoption of the new guidance and the preliminary assessments are subject to change.The most recent modification was made on April 3, 2016, which was the beginning of our fiscal year 2017, whereby we reclassified our product categories to be consistent with how these categories are analyzed and reviewed internally.
Net revenues of $631.2 million in the third quarter of fiscal year 2018 represented an 8% increase from the comparable prior year period of $585.7 million.
Net revenues from Advanced Products increased 30% in the third quarter of fiscal year 2018 versus the comparable prior year period, but the declines from our Core Products partially offset the increase.We rely on independent foundries for the manufacture of all of our products and a manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity could adversely affect our operations.
Terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined by periodic negotiations between us and these wafer foundries, which usually result in short-term agreements that do not provide for long-term supply or allocation commitments.
Therefore, the foundries, particularly TSMC who manufactures our newest products, must be able to transition to advanced manufacturing process technologies and increased wafer sizes, produce wafers at acceptable yields and deliver them in a timely manner.
We cannot guarantee that our foundries will not experience manufacturing problems, including delays in the realization of advanced manufacturing process technologies or difficulties due to limitations of new and existing process technologies.
Furthermore, we cannot guarantee the foundries will be able to manufacture sufficient quantities of our products or that they will continue to manufacture a product for the full life of the product.