Item 4.Controls and Procedures
Disclosure controls and procedures are controls and other procedures that are designed to reasonably ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports filed or submitted by the Company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) rules and forms.
Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to reasonably ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports filed under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management, including the principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
As required by SEC rules, the Company has evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of its disclosure controls and procedures as of May 31, 2018.
This evaluation was carried out under the supervision and with the participation of management, including the principal executive officer and principal financial officer.
Based on this evaluation, these officers have concluded that the design and operation of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures are effective at a reasonable assurance level as of May 31, 2018.
However, because all disclosure procedures must rely to a significant degree on actions or decisions made by employees throughout the organization, such as reporting of material events, the Company and its reporting officers believe that they cannot provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud or errors and omissions, if any, within the Company will be
detected.
Limitations within any control system, including the Company’s control system, include faulty judgments in decision-making or simple errors or mistakes.
In addition, controls can be circumvented by an individual, by collusion between two or more people, or by management override of the control.
Because of these limitations, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be detected.
During the nine months ended May 31, 2018, the Company completed its acquisitions of IOTA Engineering, LLC (“IOTA”) and Lucid Design Group, Inc (“Lucid”).
SEC guidance permits management to omit an assessment of an acquired business' internal control over financial reporting from management's assessment of internal control over financial reporting for a period not to exceed one year from the date of the acquisition.
Accordingly, management has not assessed IOTA's or Lucid's internal control over financial reporting as of May 31, 2018.
Excluding the acquisitions, there have been no changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the Company’s most recent completed fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.The Company began integrating IOTA and Lucid into its existing control procedures from their respective dates of acquisition.
The Company does not anticipate the integration of the acquired companies to result in changes that would materially affect its internal control over financial reporting.
