Item 2.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
The purpose of this discussion and analysis is to enhance the understanding and evaluation of the results of operations, financial position, cash flows, indebtedness, and other key financial information of Acuity Brands, Inc. (“Acuity Brands”) and its subsidiaries as of May 31, 2018 and for the three and nine months ended May 31, 2018 and 2017.
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included within this report.
Also, please refer to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2017, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) on October 26, 2017 (“Form 10-K”).
Overview
Company
Acuity Brands is the parent company of Acuity Brands Lighting, Inc. (“ABL”) and other subsidiaries (Acuity Brands, ABL, and such other subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as the “Company”).
The Company has its principal office in Atlanta, Georgia.
The Company is one of the world’s leading providers of lighting and building management solutions and services for commercial, institutional, industrial, infrastructure, and residential applications throughout North America and select international markets.
The Company’s lighting and building management solutions include devices such as luminaires, lighting controls, controllers for various building systems, power supplies, prismatic skylights, and drivers, as well as integrated systems designed to optimize energy efficiency and comfort for various indoor and outdoor applications.
Additionally, the Company continues to expand its solutions portfolio to provide a host of other economic benefits, including software and services that enable the Internet of Things (“IoT”).
The Company's IoT solutions provide customers with access to robust data analytics; support the advancement of smart buildings, smart cities, and the smart grid; and allow businesses to develop custom applications to scale their operations.
As of May 31, 2018, the Company operates 20 manufacturing facilities and seven distribution facilities along with three warehouses to serve its extensive customer base.
On May 1, 2018, using cash on hand and borrowings available under existing credit arrangements, the Company acquired IOTA Engineering, LLC (“IOTA”).
IOTA is headquartered in Tucson, Arizona and manufactures highly engineered emergency lighting products and power equipment for commercial and institutional applications both in the U.S. and internationally.
On February 12, 2018, using cash on hand, the Company acquired Lucid Design Group, Inc (“Lucid”).
Lucid is headquartered in Oakland, California and provides a data and analytics platform to make data-driven decisions to improve building efficiency and drive energy conservation and savings.
No acquisitions were completed during fiscal 2017.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
The Company’s principal sources of liquidity are operating cash flows generated primarily from its business operations, cash on hand, and various sources of borrowings.
The ability of the Company to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to access certain capital markets, including banks, is necessary to fund its operations and capital expenditures, pay dividends, repurchase shares, meet its obligations as they become due, and maintain compliance with covenants contained in its financing agreements.
The Company currently expects to invest approximately 1.5% of net sales in capital expenditures during fiscal 2018.
For the first nine months of fiscal 2018, $32.2 million had been invested, primarily for equipment, tooling, facility enhancements, and new and enhanced information technology capabilities.
In March 2018, the Board of Directors (the “Board”) authorized the repurchase of up to six million shares of the Company's common stock.
As of May 31, 2018, 0.8 million shares had been purchased under this authorization.
The Company expects to repurchase the remaining shares available for repurchase on an opportunistic basis.
The Company has repurchased a total of 2.0 million shares in fiscal 2018.
The Company's short-term cash needs are expected to include funding operations as currently planned, making anticipated capital investments, paying quarterly stockholder dividends as currently anticipated, paying principal and
interest on borrowings as currently scheduled, making required contributions to its employee benefit plans, funding possible acquisitions, and potentially repurchasing up to 5.2 million shares of its outstanding common stock as authorized by the Board.
Management believes that the Company will be able to meet its liquidity needs over the next 12 months based on its cash on hand, current projections of cash flow from operations, and borrowing availability under recently executed financing arrangements.
Additionally, management believes that the Company’s cash flows from operations and sources of funding, including, but not limited to, future borrowings and capacity, will sufficiently support the long-term liquidity needs of the Company.
During June 2018, the Company entered into a new revolving credit facility and term loan facility.
Refer to the Subsequent Events footnote in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.
Cash Flow
The Company uses available cash and cash flow from operations, borrowings on credit arrangements, and proceeds from the exercise of stock options to fund operations, capital expenditures, and acquisitions, to repurchase Company stock, and to pay dividends.
The Company’s cash position at May 31, 2018 was $94.3 million, a decrease of $216.8 million from August 31, 2017.
During the nine months ended May 31, 2018, the Company generated net cash flows from operations of $300.7 million.
Cash generated from operating activities, as well as cash on-hand, was used during the nine months ended May 31, 2018 primarily to repurchase two million shares of the Company's outstanding common stock for $298.4 million, to fund acquisitions of $163.5 million, to fund capital expenditures of $32.2 million, to pay dividends to stockholders of $16.2 million, and to pay employee taxes on the net settlement of equity awards of $7.2 million.
Management believes that investing in assets and programs that will over time increase the overall return on its invested capital is a key factor in driving stockholder value.
The Company invested $32.2 million and $55.2 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 and 2017, respectively, primarily related to investments in new equipment, tooling, facility enhancements, and information technology.
The Company expects to invest approximately 1.5% of net sales primarily for new equipment, tooling, facility enhancements, and information technology capabilities during fiscal 2018.
Capitalization
The current capital structure of the Company is comprised principally of senior unsecured notes and equity of its stockholders.
Total debt outstanding was $358.0 million and $356.9 million at May 31, 2018 and August 31, 2017, respectively, and consisted primarily of fixed-rate obligations.
On December 8, 2009, ABL issued $350.0 million of senior unsecured notes due in fiscal 2020 (the “Unsecured Notes”) in a private placement transaction.
The Unsecured Notes were subsequently exchanged for SEC-registered notes with substantially identical terms.
The Unsecured Notes bear interest at a rate of 6% per annum and were issued at a price equal to 99.797% of their face value and for a term of 10 years.
See the Debt footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.
On June 29, 2018, the Company entered into a credit agreement (“Credit Agreement”) with a syndicate of banks that provides the Company with a $400.0 million five-year unsecured revolving credit facility (“New Revolving Credit Facility”) and a $400.0 million unsecured delayed draw term loan facility (“Term Loan Facility”).
On June 29, 2018, the Company had $90.4 million borrowings outstanding under the New Revolving Credit Facility and no borrowings under the Term Loan Facility.
The Company was in compliance with all financial covenants under the Credit Agreement as of June 29, 2018.
At June 29, 2018, the Company had additional borrowing capacity under the Credit Agreement of $704.3 million under the most restrictive covenant in effect at the time, which represents the full amount of the New Revolving Credit Facility and the Term Loan Facility less the outstanding letters of credit of $5.3 million issued and $90.4 million in borrowings on the New Revolving Credit Facility.
As of June 29, 2018, the Company had outstanding
letters of credit totaling $10.2 million, primarily for securing collateral requirements under the Company's casualty insurance programs and for providing credit support for the Company’s industrial revenue bond, including $5.3 million issued under the New Revolving Credit Facility.
See the Debt and Subsequent Events footnotes of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.
During the first nine months of fiscal 2018, the Company’s consolidated stockholders’ equity decreased $65.2 million to $1.60 billion at May 31, 2018, from $1.67 billion at August 31, 2017.
The decrease was due primarily to share repurchases, the payment of dividends, shares withheld for employee taxes on vested restricted stock grants, and foreign currency translation adjustments, partially offset by net income earned in the period, stock issuances resulting primarily from the exercise of stock options, and amortization of pension plan prior service costs and actuarial losses.
The Company’s debt to total capitalization ratio (calculated by dividing total debt by the sum of total debt and total stockholders’ equity) was 18.3% and 17.6% at May 31, 2018 and August 31, 2017, respectively.
The ratio of debt, net of cash, to total capitalization, net of cash, was 14.1% at May 31, 2018 and 2.7% at August 31, 2017.
Dividends
Acuity Brands paid dividends on its common stock of $16.2 million and $17.2 million ($0.39 per share) during the nine months ended May 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
All decisions regarding the declaration and payment of dividends by Acuity Brands are at the discretion of the Board and are evaluated regularly in light of the Company’s financial condition, earnings, growth prospects, funding requirements, applicable law, and any other factors the Board deems relevant.
Results of Operations
Third Quarter of Fiscal 2018 Compared with Third Quarter of Fiscal 2017
Net sales were $944.0 million for the three months ended May 31, 2018 compared with $891.6 million reported for the three months ended May 31, 2017, an increase of $52.4 million, or 5.9%.
For the three months ended May 31, 2018, the Company reported net income of $73.0 million, a decrease of $9.2 million, or 11.2%, compared with $82.2
million for the three months ended May 31, 2017.
For the third quarter of fiscal 2018, diluted earnings per share decreased 5.3% to $1.80 compared with $1.90 reported in the year-ago period.
Net Sales
products.
Sales of LED-based products accounted for over two-thirds of total net sales during the third quarter of fiscal 2018 and approximately two-thirds of total net sales during the third quarter of fiscal 2017.
Due to the changing dynamics of the Company's product portfolio, including the increase of integrated lighting and building management solutions, it is not possible to precisely quantify or differentiate the individual components of volume, price, and mix.
Gross Profit
Operating Profit
The Company recognized pre-tax special charges of $9.9 million during the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with pre-tax special charges of $0.5 million recorded during the third quarter of fiscal 2017.
Further details regarding the Company's special charges are included in the Special Charge footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
Adjusted operating profit decreased by $12.5 million, or 8.4%, to $135.8 million for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with $148.3 million for the third quarter of fiscal 2017.
Adjusted operating profit margin decreased 220 basis points to 14.4% for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with 16.6% for the year-ago period.
Other Expense (Income)
Other expense (income) consists principally of net interest expense and net miscellaneous income, which includes gains and losses associated with foreign currency-related transactions and non-operating gains and losses.
Interest expense, net, was $8.4 million and $8.1 million for the three months ended May 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The Company reported net miscellaneous income of $1.7 million and $1.2 million for the three months ended May 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Income Taxes and Net Income
The Company’s effective income tax rate was 26.4% and 34.0% for the three months ended May 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The effective income rate for the three months ended May 31, 2018 was significantly impacted by the provisions of the TCJA, which was enacted during the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
Further details regarding the TCJA are included in the Income Taxes footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Company currently estimates that the Company’s blended consolidated effective income tax rate, before any discrete items, will approximate 26% to 28% for the remainder of fiscal 2018 and 23% to 25% for fiscal 2019.
Adjusted net income for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was $95.9 million compared with $93.1 million in the prior-year period, which represented an increase of $2.8 million, or 3.0%.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share for the three months ended May 31, 2018 increased $0.22, or 10.2%, to $2.37 compared with $2.15 for the prior-year period.
First Nine Months of Fiscal 2018 Compared with First Nine Months of Fiscal 2017
Net sales were $2.62 billion for the nine months ended May 31, 2018 compared with $2.55 billion reported for the nine months ended May 31, 2017, an increase of $71.4 million, or 2.8%.
For the nine months ended May 31, 2018, the Company reported net income of $241.4 million, an increase of $10.2 million, or 4.4%, compared with $231.2 million for the nine months ended May 31, 2017.
For the first nine months of fiscal 2018, diluted earnings per share increased 10.6% to $5.85 compared with $5.29 reported in the year-ago period.
Net Sales
Gross Profit
Operating Profit
The Company recognized a pre-tax special charge of $10.7 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2018, compared with a pre-tax special charge of $1.7 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2017.
Further details regarding the Company's special charges are included in the Special Charge footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
Adjusted operating profit decreased by $41.9 million, or 10.1%, to $373.5 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 compared with $415.4 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2017.
Adjusted operating profit margin for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 decreased 200 basis points to 14.3% compared with 16.3% in the year-ago period.
Other Expense (Income)
Other expense (income) consists principally of net interest expense and net miscellaneous income, which includes gains and losses associated with foreign currency-related transactions.
Interest expense, net, was $24.5 million for the nine months ended May 31, 2018 compared with $24.3 million for the nine months ended May 31, 2017.
The Company reported net miscellaneous income of $0.8 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 compared with net miscellaneous income of $8.5 million in the prior-year period.
Net miscellaneous income for the nine months ended May 31, 2017 included a $7.2 million gain associated with the sale of an investment in an unconsolidated affiliate.
Income Taxes and Net Income
The Company’s effective income tax rate was 16.4% and 34.0% for the nine months ended May 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The effective income rate for the nine months ended May 31, 2018 was significantly impacted by the TCJA, which was enacted during the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
Further details regarding the TCJA are included in the Income Taxes footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
Net income for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 increased $10.2 million to $241.4 million from $231.2 million reported for the prior-year period.
The increase in net income resulted primarily from the benefit from income taxes recognized related to the TCJA, partially offset by a decrease in operating profit and lower miscellaneous income.
Diluted earnings per share for the nine months ended May 31, 2018 increased $0.56 to $5.85 compared with diluted earnings per share of $5.29 for the prior-year period.
Adjusted net income for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 was $255.5 million compared with $258.6 million in the prior-year period, which represented a decrease of $3.1 million, or 1.2%.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share for the nine months ended May 31, 2018 increased $0.27, or 4.6%, to $6.19 compared with $5.92 for the prior-year period.
Outlook
Management continues to believe the execution of the Company's strategy will provide attractive opportunities for profitable growth over the long-term.
The Company's strategy is to capitalize on market growth and share gain opportunities by continuing to expand and leverage its industry-leading lighting and building management solutions portfolio, coupled with its extensive market presence and financial strength, to produce attractive financial performance over the long-term.
These opportunities include serving its traditional new construction and renovation markets as well as leveraging its unique, technology driven solutions portfolio to capture market share in the nascent, but rapidly growing, market for data capture, analytics, and other services, transforming buildings and campuses from cost centers to strategic assets.
Third-party forecasts and leading indicators suggest that demand in the North American lighting market, the Company’s primary market, will improve modestly in second half of calendar 2018 following several quarters of weak demand.
Recent softness in the lighting industry has created a challenging environment for management to deliver financial performance in the short term while, at the same time, continuing to invest in attractive longer-term opportunities.
Management expects to continue to outperform the growth rates of the markets that the Company serves by executing its strategies focused on growth opportunities for new construction and renovation projects, expansion into underpenetrated geographies and channels, and growth from the continued introduction of new lighting and building management solutions as part of the Company’s integrated, tiered solutions strategy.
Management expects the pricing environment to continue to be challenging in portions of the market, particularly for more basic, lesser-featured products sold through certain sales channels as well as shifts in product mix, both of which are expected to continue to negatively impact net sales and margins.
Management expects to continue to introduce products and solutions to more effectively compete in these portions of the market and to accelerate programs to reduce product costs in order to maintain the Company’s competitiveness and drive improved profitability.
During the third quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company recognized a pre-tax special charge of $9.9 million, primarily related to the planned consolidation of certain facilities and associated reduction in employee workforce.
The special charge consisted primarily of severance and employee-related benefit costs.
The Company also recorded a $3.1 million charge during the third quarter of fiscal 2018 to reserve for raw material inventory located at one of the facilities where production activities will cease because it would not be cost effective to relocate that inventory.
Management expects to incur additional costs in future periods associated with the closing of facilities, primarily attributable to early lease termination costs and relocation costs.
Annual savings realized from the streamlining activities, once fully completed, are expected to exceed the amount of the special charge and will be reinvested in activities to support higher-growth opportunities as well as drive improved profitability.
On June 29, 2018, the Company entered into a new credit agreement with a syndicate of banks that increased the Company’s borrowing capacity under such agreement from $250 million to $800 million.
The increase in borrowing capacity provides the Company with the resources to accommodate the current stock repurchase program of which 5.2 million shares remain available for repurchase.
The extent and timing of actual stock repurchases will be subject to various factors, including stock price, company performance, expected future market conditions, and other possible uses of cash, including acquisitions.
The Company may increase its leverage to accommodate the stock repurchase program.
Management expects the TCJA that was passed on December 22, 2017, to favorably impact the Company’s net income, diluted earnings per share, and cash flows in future periods, due primarily to the reduction in the federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% effective for periods beginning January 1, 2018.
Additionally, positive business sentiment and other favorable aspects of the new tax law could incentivize additional investments in facilities and infrastructure in the U.S. that may increase future demand in the end-markets that the Company serves.
Management currently estimates that the Company’s blended consolidated effective income tax rate (“tax rate”) for full-year fiscal 2018 will approximate 26% to 28% before discrete items, compared with nearly 35% for the prior year.
Management currently estimates that the fiscal 2019 tax rate will approximate 23% to 25% before discrete items.
The aforementioned tax related estimates may differ from actual results, possibly materially, due to changes in interpretations of the TCJA and assumptions made by the Company, as well as guidance that may be issued and actions the Company may take as a result of the TCJA.
Notwithstanding the TCJA, a great amount of rhetoric and debate remains regarding a wide range of policy options with respect to monetary, regulatory, and trade, amongst others, that the U.S. federal government has and may pursue, including the recent imposition of tariffs on certain imports and continuing discussions on amending or terminating North American Free Trade Agreement (“NAFTA”).
Certain of the components used in the Company’s products are impacted by the recently imposed tariffs on China imports but the Company does not currently believe it will have a material adverse financial effect.
Any future policy changes that may be implemented could have a positive or negative consequence on the Company’s financial performance depending on how the changes would influence many factors, including business and consumer sentiment.
While management is proactively identifying and evaluating potential contingency options under various policy scenarios, it is too early to comment or speculate at this time on the potential ramification of these endless scenarios.
From a longer term perspective, management expects that the Company’s addressable markets have the potential to experience solid growth over the next decade, particularly as energy and environmental concerns come to the forefront along with emerging opportunities for digital lighting to play a key role in the IoT through the use of intelligent networked lighting and building automation systems that can collect and exchange data to increase efficiency as well as provide a host of other economic benefits resulting from data analytics.
Management remains positive about the future prospects of the Company and its ability to outperform the markets it serves.
Critical Accounting Estimates
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations addresses the financial condition and results of operations as reflected in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.
As discussed in the Description of Business and Basis of Presentation footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and reported amounts of revenue and expense during the reporting period.
On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates and judgments, including those related to revenue recognition; inventory valuation; amortization and the recoverability of long-lived assets, including goodwill and intangible assets; share-based payment expense; medical, product warranty and recall, and other reserves; retirement benefits; and litigation.
Management bases its estimates and judgments on its substantial historical experience and other relevant factors, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Management discusses the development of accounting estimates with the Company’s Audit Committee of the Board.
There have been no material changes in the Company’s critical accounting estimates during the current period.
For a detailed discussion of significant accounting policies that may involve a higher degree of judgment, please refer to the Company’s Form 10-K.
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information
This filing contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
Statements made herein that may be considered forward-looking include statements incorporating terms such as “expects,” “believes,” “intends,” “anticipates,” and similar terms that relate to future events, performance, or results of the Company.
In addition, the Company, or the executive officers on the Company’s behalf, may from time to time make forward-looking statements in reports and other documents the Company files with the SEC or in connection with oral statements made to the press, current and potential investors, or others.
Forward-looking statements include, without limitation: (a) the Company’s projections regarding financial performance, liquidity, capital structure, capital expenditures, investments, share repurchases, and dividends; (b) expectations about the impact of any changes in demand as well as volatility and uncertainty in general economic conditions and the pricing environment; (c) external forecasts projecting the North American lighting and building management solutions market growth rate and growth in the Company's addressable markets; (d) the Company's ability to execute and realize benefits from initiatives related to streamlining its operations, capitalize on growth opportunities, expand in key markets as well as underpenetrated geographies and channels, and introduce new lighting and building management solutions; (e) the Company’s estimate of its fiscal 2018 and 2019 tax rates, as well as the impact of the TCJA on the Company's financial position, results of operations, and cash flows; (f) the Company’s estimate of future amortization expense; (g) the Company’s ability to achieve its long-term financial goals and measures and outperform the markets its serves; (h) the impact to the Company of changes in the political landscape and related policy changes, including monetary, regulatory, and trade policies; and (i) the Company's expectations about the resolution of trade compliance, securities class action, and/or other legal matters.
You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this quarterly report.
Except as required by law, the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or release any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect any events or circumstances after the date of this quarterly report or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
The Company’s forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the historical experience of the Company and management’s present expectations or projections.
These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, customer and supplier relationships and prices; competition; ability to realize anticipated benefits from initiatives taken and timing of benefits; market demand; litigation and other contingent liabilities; and economic, political, governmental, and technological factors affecting the Company.
Also, additional risks that could cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the Company’s forward-looking statements are discussed in Part I, Item 1a.
Risk Factors of the Company's Form 10-K, and are specifically incorporated herein by reference.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
Item 5.Other Information
Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation
On June 29, 2018, the Company entered into a credit agreement (“Credit Agreement”) with a syndicate of banks, consisting of JP Morgan as the administrative agent and other lenders as parties thereto, that provides the Company with a $400.0 million five-year unsecured revolving credit facility (“New Revolving Credit Facility”) and a $400.0 million unsecured delayed draw term loan facility (“Term Loan Facility”).
Available borrowings under the Credit Agreement may be used for general corporate purposes, working capital, refinancing indebtedness under the prior Revolving Credit Facility, share repurchases, and non-hostile acquisitions.
The New Revolving Credit Facility replaced the Company's $250.0 million Revolving Credit Facility with a syndicate of banks,consisting of JP Morgan as the administrative agent and other lenders as parties thereto, which was scheduled to mature on August 27, 2019.
Generally, amounts outstanding under the New Revolving Credit Facility allow for borrowings to bear interest at either the Eurocurrency Rate or the base rate at the Company's option.
Eurocurrency Rate advances can be denominated in a variety of currencies, including U.S.
Dollars, and amounts outstanding bear interest at a periodic fixed rate equal to the LIBOR for the applicable currency plus an applicable margin.
The Eurocurrency applicable margin is based on the Company’s leverage ratio, as defined in the Credit Agreement, with such margin ranging from 1.000% to 1.375%.
Base Rate advances bear interest at an alternate base rate plus an applicable margin.
The base rate applicable margin is based on the Company’s leverage ratio, as defined in the Credit Agreement, with such margin ranging from 0.0% to 0.375%.
The Term Loan Facility allows for borrowings to be drawn over a one-year period ending June 29, 2019, utilizing up to four separate installments, and are U.S. dollar denominated.
Borrowings under the Term Loan Facility will amortize in equal quarterly installments of 2.5% per year in year one, 2.5% per year in year two, 5.0% per year in year three, 5.0% per year in year four, and 7.5% per year in year five.
Any remaining borrowings under the Term Loan Facility are due and payable in full on June 29, 2023.
The Term Loan Facility allows for borrowings to bear interest at either a Eurocurrency Rate or the base rate, at the Company’s option.
Eurocurrency Rate advances can be denominated in a variety of currencies, including U.S.
Dollars, and amounts outstanding bear interest at a periodic fixed rate equal to LIBOR for the applicable currency plus an applicable margin.
The Eurocurrency applicable margin is based on the Company’s leverage ratio, as defined in the Credit Agreement, with such margin ranging from 0.875% to 1.250%.
Base Rate advances bear interest at an alternate base rate plus an applicable margin.
The base rate applicable margin is based on the Company’s leverage ratio, as defined in the Credit Agreement, with such margin ranging from 0.0% to 0.25%.
The Company is required to pay certain fees in connection with the Credit Agreement, including administrative service fees and annual facility fees.
The annual facility fee is payable quarterly, in arrears, and is determined by the Company’s leverage ratio as defined in the Credit Agreement.
The facility fee ranges from 0.125% to 0.250% of the aggregate $800.0 million commitment of the lenders under the Credit Agreement.
The Credit Agreement contains contains customary covenants regarding the preservation and maintenance of our corporate existence, material compliance with laws, payment of taxes, and maintenance of insurance and of our properties.The Credit Agreement contains financial covenants, including a minimum interest expense coverage ratio (“New Minimum Interest Expense Coverage Ratio”) and a leverage ratio (“New Maximum Leverage Ratio”) of total indebtedness to EBITDA, as such terms are defined in the Credit Agreement.
These ratios are computed at the end of each fiscal quarter for the most recent 12-month period.
The Credit Agreement generally allows for a New Minimum Interest Expense Coverage Ratio of 2.50 and a New Maximum Leverage Ratio of 3.50, subject to certain conditions defined in the financing agreement.
The Credit Agreement includes customary events of default, including, but not limited to, the failure to pay any interest, principal or fees when due, the failure to perform any covenant or agreement, inaccurate or false representations or warranties, insolvency or bankruptcy, change of control, the occurrence of certain ERISA events and judgment defaults.
Declaration of Dividend
On June 29, 2018, the Board declared a quarterly dividend of $0.13 per share.
The dividend is payable on August 1, 2018 to stockholders of record on July 18, 2018.
Item 6.Exhibits
Exhibits are listed on the Index to Exhibits.
INDEX TO EXHIBITS
EXHIBIT 3(a)Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Acuity Brands, Inc. (formerly Acuity Brands Holdings, Inc.), dated as of September 26, 2007.
Reference is made to Exhibit 3.1 of registrant's Form 8-K as filed with the Commission on September 26, 2007, which is incorporated herein by reference.
 (b)Certificate of Amendment of Acuity Brands, Inc. (formerly Acuity Brands Holdings, Inc.), dated as of September 26, 2007.
Reference is made to Exhibit 3.2 of registrant's Form 8-K as filed with the Commission on September 26, 2007, which is incorporated herein by reference.
 (c)Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Acuity Brands, Inc., dated as of January 6, 2017.
Reference is made to Exhibit 3.C of registrant's Form 10-Q as filed with the Commission on January 9, 2017, which is incorporated herein by reference.
 (d)Amended and Restated Bylaws of Acuity Brands, Inc., dated as of January 6, 2017.
Reference is made to Exhibit 3.D of registrant's Form 10-Q as filed with the Commission on January 9, 2017, which is incorporated herein by reference.
EXHIBIT 10(1)Five-Year Credit Agreement dated June 29, 2019.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
EXHIBIT 31(a)Certification of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
 (b)Certification of the Chief Financial Officer of the Company pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
EXHIBIT 32(a)Certification of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
 (b)Certification of the Chief Financial Officer of the Company pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
ACUITY BRANDS, INC.
