Item 4.Controls and Procedures

Disclosure controls and procedures are controls and other procedures that are designed to reasonably ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports filed or submitted by the Company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC rules and forms.
Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to reasonably ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports filed under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management, including the principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
As required by SEC rules, the Company has evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of its disclosure controls and procedures as of November 30, 2017.
This evaluation was carried out under the supervision and with the participation of management, including the principal executive officer and principal financial officer.
Based on this evaluation, these officers have concluded that the design and operation of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures are effective at a reasonable assurance level as of November 30, 2017.
However, because all disclosure procedures must rely to a significant degree on actions or decisions made by employees throughout the organization, such as reporting of material events, the Company and its reporting officers believe that they cannot provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud or errors and omissions, if any, within the Company will be detected.
Limitations within any control system, including the Company’s control system, include faulty judgments in decision-making or simple errors or mistakes.
In addition, controls can be circumvented by an individual, by collusion between two or more people, or by management override of the control.
Because of these limitations, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be detected.
There have been no changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the Company’s most recent completed fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
OTHER INFORMATION

Item 1.Legal Proceedings


The Company is subject to various other legal claims arising in the normal course of business, including, but not limited to, patent infringement, product liability claims, and employment matters.
The Company is self-insured up to specified limits for certain types of claims, including product liability, and is fully self-insured for certain other types of claims, including environmental, product recall, and patent infringement.
Based on information currently available, it is the opinion of management that the ultimate resolution of any such pending and threatened legal proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows of the Company.
However, in the event of unexpected future developments, it is possible that the ultimate resolution of any such matters, if unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows of the Company in future periods.
The Company establishes reserves for legal claims when the costs associated with the claims become probable and can be reasonably estimated.
The actual costs of resolving legal claims may be substantially higher than the amounts reserved for such claims.
However, the Company cannot make a meaningful estimate of actual costs to be incurred that could possibly be higher or lower than the amounts reserved.
Information regarding reportable legal proceedings is contained in Part I, Item 3.
Legal Proceedings in the Company’s Form 10-K. Information set forth in this report’s Commitments and Contingencies footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements describes any legal proceedings that became reportable during the quarter ended November 30, 2017, and updates any descriptions of previously reported legal proceedings in which there have been material developments during such quarter.
The discussion of legal proceedings included within the Commitments and Contingencies footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is incorporated into this Item 1 by reference.
Item 1a.Risk Factors

There have been no material changes in the Company’s risk factors from those disclosed in Part I, Item 1a.
Risk Factors of the Company’s Form 10-K.
Item 5.Other Information

Results of Annual Stockholders Meeting

At the Company's annual meeting of stockholders held on January 5, 2018, in Atlanta, Georgia, the stockholders considered and voted on the following proposals.
Additionally, the Board determined that the Company will hold future non-binding, advisory votes of stockholders to approve the compensation of the named executive officers every year, consistent with the results of the vote at the annual meeting of stockholders held on January 5, 2018.
This advisory vote will occur annually until the Board otherwise elects a different frequency for such non-binding, advisory votes or until another non-binding, advisory stockholder vote on the frequency of stockholder votes on executive compensation occurs.
The Company expects to publish a policy on sustainability, which it anticipates will be available on the Company’s website in the near future.
The policy will describe and formalize the Company's ESG policies, including key performance indicators related to ESG matters that are material to the business.
Declaration of Dividend

On January 5, 2018, the Board declared a quarterly dividend of $0.13 per share.
The dividend is payable on February 1, 2018 to stockholders of record on January 22, 2018.
Other Board Matters

On January 5, 2018, the Board reduced the size of the Board from 12 members to 11 members following the retirement of Gordon D. Harnett from the Board effective January 5, 2018.
Mr. Harnett advised the Company that his decision to retire did not involve any disagreement with the Company.
Item 6.Exhibits

Exhibits are listed on the Index to Exhibits.
INDEX TO EXHIBITS

EXHIBIT 3(a)Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Acuity Brands, Inc. (formerly Acuity Brands Holdings, Inc.), dated as of September 26, 2007.
Reference is made to Exhibit 3.1 of registrant's Form 8-K as filed with the Commission on September 26, 2007, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Reference is made to Exhibit 3.2 of registrant's Form 8-K as filed with the Commission on September 26, 2007, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Reference is made to Exhibit 3.C of registrant's Form 10-Q as filed with the Commission on January 9, 2017, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Reference is made to Exhibit 3.D of registrant's Form 10-Q as filed with the Commission on January 9, 2017, which is incorporated herein by reference.
EXHIBIT 10(iii)A(1)Amended and Restated Acuity Brands, Inc. 2012 Omnibus Stock Incentive Compensation Plan.
Reference is made to Annex A of the registrant’s Proxy Statement as filed with the Commission on November 21, 2017, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Reference is made to Annex B of the registrant’s Proxy Statement as filed with the Commission on November 21,2017, which is incorporated herein by reference.
EXHIBIT 31(a)Certification of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
EXHIBIT 32(a)Certification of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
