PART II.
OTHER INFORMATION
Item 1.Legal Proceedings
We are subject to various other legal claims arising in the normal course of business, including, but not limited to, patent infringement, product liability claims, and employment matters.
We are self-insured up to specified limits for certain types of claims, including product liability, and are fully self-insured for certain other types of claims, including environmental, product recall, and patent infringement.
Based on information currently available, it is the opinion of management that the ultimate resolution of any such pending and threatened legal proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows of the Company.
However, in the event of unexpected future developments, it is possible that the ultimate resolution of any such matters, if unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows in future periods.
We establish reserves for legal claims when the costs associated with the claims become probable and can be reasonably estimated.
The actual costs of resolving legal claims may be substantially higher than the amounts reserved for such claims.
However, we cannot make a meaningful estimate of actual costs to be incurred that could possibly be higher or lower than the amounts reserved.
Information regarding reportable legal proceedings is contained in Part I, Item 3.
Legal Proceedings in the Company’s Form 10-K. Information set forth in this report’s Commitments and Contingencies footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements describes any legal proceedings that became reportable during the quarter ended February 28, 2019, and updates any descriptions of previously reported legal proceedings in which there have been material developments during such quarter.
The discussion of legal proceedings included within the Commitments and Contingencies footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is incorporated into this Item 1 by reference.
Item 1a.Risk Factors
There have been no material changes in our risk factors from those disclosed in Part I, Item 1a.
Risk Factors of our Form 10-K.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
Item 5.Other Information
Declaration of Dividend
On March 29, 2019, the Board declared a quarterly dividend of $0.13 per share.
The dividend is payable on May 1, 2019 to stockholders of record on April 17, 2019.
Item 6.Exhibits
Exhibits are listed on the Index to Exhibits.
INDEX TO EXHIBITS
EXHIBIT 3(a)Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Acuity Brands, Inc. (formerly Acuity Brands Holdings, Inc.), dated as of September 26, 2007.
Reference is made to Exhibit 3.1 of registrant's Form 8-K as filed with the Commission on September 26, 2007, which is incorporated herein by reference.
 (b)Certificate of Amendment of Acuity Brands, Inc. (formerly Acuity Brands Holdings, Inc.), dated as of September 26, 2007.
Reference is made to Exhibit 3.2 of registrant's Form 8-K as filed with the Commission on September 26, 2007, which is incorporated herein by reference.
 (c)Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Acuity Brands, Inc., dated as of January 6, 2017.
Reference is made to Exhibit 3.C of registrant's Form 10-Q as filed with the Commission on January 9, 2017, which is incorporated herein by reference.
 (d)Amended and Restated Bylaws of Acuity Brands, Inc., dated as of January 6, 2017.
Reference is made to Exhibit 3.D of registrant's Form 10-Q as filed with the Commission on January 9, 2017, which is incorporated herein by reference.
EXHIBIT 10(a)Amendment No.
5 to Acuity Brands, Inc.
Amended and Restated Severance Agreement between Acuity Brands, Inc. and Vernon J. Nagel dated March 29, 2019.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
 (b)Amendment No.
9 to Acuity Brands, Inc.
Severance Agreement between Acuity Brands, Inc. and Richard K. Reece dated March 29, 2019.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
EXHIBIT 31(a)Certification of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
 (b)Certification of the Chief Financial Officer of the Company pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
EXHIBIT 32(a)Certification of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
 (b)Certification of the Chief Financial Officer of the Company pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
EXHIBIT 101.INSXBRL Instance Document The instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the Inline XBRL document.
 .SCHXBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
 .CALXBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
 .DEFXBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
 .LABXBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
 .PREXBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
ACUITY BRANDS, INC.
