Item 1.Financial Statements
ACUITY BRANDS, INC.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
ACUITY BRANDS, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (Unaudited)
The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
ACUITY BRANDS, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Unaudited)
The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
ACUITY BRANDS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited)
Note 1 — Description of Business and Basis of Presentation
Acuity Brands, Inc. (“Acuity Brands”) is the parent company of Acuity Brands Lighting, Inc. (“ABL”) and other wholly-owned subsidiaries (Acuity Brands, ABL, and such other subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as “we,” “our,” “us,” “the Company,” or similar references) and was incorporated in 2001 under the laws of the State of Delaware.
We are one of the world’s leading providers of lighting and building management solutions and services for commercial, institutional, industrial, infrastructure, and residential applications throughout North America and select international markets.
Our lighting and building management solutions include devices such as luminaires, lighting controls, controllers for various building systems, power supplies, prismatic skylights, and drivers, as well as integrated systems designed to optimize energy efficiency and comfort for various indoor and outdoor applications.
Additionally, we continue to expand our solutions portfolio, including software and services, to provide a host of other economic benefits resulting from data analytics that enables the Internet of Things (“IoT”), supports the advancement of smart buildings, smart cities, and the smart grid, and allows businesses to develop custom applications to scale their operations.
We have one reportable segment serving the North American lighting market and select international markets.
We prepared the Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
GAAP”) to present the financial position, results of operations, and cash flows of Acuity Brands and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
These unaudited interim consolidated financial statements reflect all normal and recurring adjustments that are, in the opinion of management, necessary to present fairly our consolidated financial position as of May 31, 2019, our consolidated comprehensive income for the three and nine months ended May 31, 2019 and 2018, and our consolidated cash flows for the nine months ended May 31, 2019 and 2018.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in our annual financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP have been condensed or omitted.
However, we believe that the disclosures included herein are adequate to make the information presented not misleading.
These financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements of the Company as of and for the three years ended August 31, 2018 and notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) on October 25, 2018 (File No.
001-16583) (“Form 10-K”).
The results of operations for the three and nine months ended May 31, 2019 and 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full fiscal year due primarily to seasonality, which results in our net sales and net income generally being higher in the second half of our fiscal year, the impact of any acquisitions, and, among other reasons, the continued uncertainty of general economic conditions that may impact our key end markets for the remainder of fiscal 2019.
Note 2 — Significant Accounting Policies
Use of Estimates
The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenue and expense during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Reclassifications
Certain prior-period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
No material reclassifications occurred during the current period.
Refer to the New Accounting Pronouncements footnote for additional information regarding retrospective reclassifications related to accounting standards adopted in the current year.
ACUITY BRANDS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited)
Note 3 — Acquisitions and Investments
No acquisitions were completed during the first nine months of fiscal 2019.
The following discussion relates to acquisitions completed during fiscal 2018.
IOTA Engineering, LLC
On May 1, 2018, using cash on hand and borrowings available under existing credit arrangements, we acquired all of the equity interests of IOTA Engineering, LLC (“IOTA”).
IOTA is headquartered in Tucson, Arizona and manufactures highly engineered emergency lighting products and power equipment for commercial and institutional applications both in the U.S. and international markets.
The operating results of IOTA have been included in our consolidated financial statements since the date of acquisition and are not material to our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
Lucid Design Group, Inc.
On February 12, 2018, using cash on hand, we acquired all of the equity interests of Lucid Design Group, Inc (“Lucid”).
Lucid is headquartered in Oakland, California and provides a data and analytics platform to make data-driven decisions to improve building efficiency and drive energy conservation and savings.
The operating results of Lucid have been included in our consolidated financial statements since the date of acquisition and are not material to our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
Accounting for Fiscal 2018 Acquisitions
Acquisition-related costs were expensed as incurred.
Amounts related to the acquisition accounting for these acquisitions are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The aggregate purchase price of these acquisitions reflects total goodwill and identified intangible assets of approximately $76.8 million and $81.8 million, respectively, as of May 31, 2019.
Identified intangible assets consist of indefinite-lived marketing-related intangibles as well as definite-lived customer-based and technology-based assets, which have a weighted average useful life of approximately 14 years.
As of May 31, 2019, we have finalized the acquisition accounting for Lucid and IOTA.
There were no material changes to our financial statements as a result of the finalization of the acquisition accounting for Lucid or IOTA.
Note 4 — New Accounting Pronouncements
Accounting Standards Adopted in Fiscal 2019
ASU 2017-01 -— Clarifying the Definition of a Business
ASU 2016-15 — Statement of Cash Flows
ACUITY BRANDS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited)
2018 decreased $1.0 million, with a corresponding increase to cash flows from investing activities, compared to amounts previously reported.
The remaining provisions of ASU 2016-15 did not impact our financial statements for the periods presented.
ASU 2017-07 — Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost
ASC 606 — Revenue from Contracts with Customers
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (“ASU 2014-09”), which replaced the existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S. GAAP.
Since the issuance of ASU 2014-09, the FASB released several amendments to improve and clarify the implementation guidance, as well as to change the effective date.
These standards have been collectively codified within Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (“ASC 606”).
ASC 606 outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers.
The standard also requires additional disclosures about the nature, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customer contracts, including significant judgments and changes in those judgments.
We adopted ASC 606 effective September 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method and recognized a cumulative effect of applying ASC 606 of $13.0 million in Retained earnings on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of this date.
We applied the standard to all contracts as of the transition date.
Information for prior years presented has not been restated and continues to reflect the authoritative accounting standards in effect for those periods.
ACUITY BRANDS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited)
Accounting Standards Yet to Be Adopted
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No.
2018-15, Customer's Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement that is a Service Contract (“ASU 2018-15”), which will require customers to apply internal-use software guidance to determine the implementation costs that are able to be capitalized.
Capitalized implementation costs will be required to be amortized over the term of the arrangement, beginning when the cloud computing arrangement is ready for its intended use.
ASU 2018-15 is effective for fiscal years (and interim reporting periods within those years) beginning after December 15, 2019.
The standard allows changes to be applied either retrospectively or prospectively.
We will adopt the standard as required in fiscal 2021.
The provisions of ASU 2018-15 are not expected to have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-02, Leases (“ASU 2016-02”), which requires lessees to include most leases on the balance sheet.
ASU 2016-02 is effective for fiscal years (and interim reporting periods within those years) beginning after December 15, 2018.
Since the issuance of ASU 2016-02, the FASB released several amendments to improve and clarify the implementation guidance, as well as to change the allowable adoption methods.
These standards have been collectively codified within ASC 842, Leases (“ASC 842”).
The standard allows entities to present the effects of the accounting change as either a cumulative adjustment as of the beginning of the earliest period presented or as of the date of adoption.
We have an implementation team tasked with reviewing our lease obligations and determining the impact of the new standard to our financial statements.
The team is also tasked with identifying appropriate changes to our business processes, systems, and controls to support recognition and disclosure under the new standard.
Currently, the implementation team has substantially completed its review of outstanding property and equipment leases, which represent our primary outstanding lease obligations.
The team is in the process of reviewing and analyzing other contracts that may have ASC 842 impacts, including information technology contracts.
The implementation team reports its findings and progress of the project to management on a frequent basis and to
ACUITY BRANDS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited)
the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors on a quarterly basis.
Based on our current lease portfolio, we preliminarily expect ASC 842 to have a material impact on our consolidated balance sheets primarily related to the recognition of operating lease assets and liabilities.
However, we do not expect the standard to have a material impact on our consolidated statements of comprehensive income or cash flows.
Further details regarding our undiscounted future lease payments as well as the timing of those payments are included within the Commitments and Contingencies footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within our Form 10-K. We will adopt the standard as required on September 1, 2019.
All other newly issued accounting pronouncements not yet effective have been deemed either immaterial or not applicable.
Note 5 — Revenue Recognition
We recognize revenue when we transfer control of goods and services to our customers.
Revenue is measured as the amount of consideration we expect to receive in exchange for goods and services and is recognized net of allowances for rebates, sales incentives, product returns, and discounts to customers.
Sales and use taxes collected on behalf of governmental authorities are excluded from revenues.
Payment is generally due and received within 60 days from the point of sale or prior to the transfer of control of certain goods and services.
No payment terms extend beyond one year, and we apply the practical expedient within ASC 606 to conclude that no significant financing terms exist within our contracts with customers.
Allowances for cash discounts to customers are estimated using the expected value method based on historical experience and are recorded as a reduction to sales.
Our standard terms and conditions of sale allow for the return of certain products within four months of the date of shipment.
We also provide for limited product return rights to certain distributors and other customers, primarily for slow moving or damaged items subject to certain defined criteria.
The limited product return rights generally allow customers to return resalable products purchased within a specified time period and subject to certain limitations, including, at times, when accompanied by a replacement order of equal or greater value.
At the time revenue is recognized, we record a refund liability for the expected value of future returns primarily based on historical experience, specific notification of pending returns, or based on contractual terms with the respective customers.
Although historical product returns generally have been within expectations, there can be no assurance that future product returns will not exceed historical amounts.
A significant increase in product returns could have a material adverse impact on our operating results in future periods.
Total refund liabilities recorded under ASC 606 related to rights of return, cash discounts, and other miscellaneous credits to customers were $38.8 million and $41.2 million as of May 31, 2019 and September 1, 2018, respectively, and are reflected within Other accrued liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Additionally, we record right of return assets for products expected to be returned to our distribution centers, which are included within Prepayments and other current assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Such assets totaled $15.3 million and $16.4 million as of May 31, 2019 and September 1, 2018, respectively.
We also maintain one-time or ongoing marketing and trade-promotion programs with certain customers that require us to estimate and accrue the expected costs of such programs.
These arrangements include cooperative marketing programs, merchandising of our products, introductory marketing funds for new products, and other trade-promotion activities conducted by the customer.
Costs associated with these programs are generally estimated based on the most likely amount expected to be settled based on the context of the individual contract and are reflected within the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income in accordance with ASC 606, which in most instances requires such costs to be recorded as reductions of revenue.
The refund liabilities associated with these programs totaled $31.8 million and $43.9 million as of May 31, 2019 and September 1, 2018, respectively, and are reflected within Other accrued liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Costs to obtain and fulfill contracts, such as sales commissions and shipping and handling activities, are short-term in nature and are expensed as incurred.
ACUITY BRANDS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited)
Nature of Goods and Services
Products
Approximately 95% of revenues for the periods presented were generated from short-term contracts with our customers to deliver tangible goods such as luminaires, lighting controllers, controllers for various building systems, power supplies, prismatic skylights, and drivers.
We record revenue from these contracts when the customer obtains control of those goods.
For sales designated free on board shipping point, control is transferred at the time of shipment.
For sales designated free on board destination, customers take control when a product is delivered to the customer’s delivery site.
Professional Services
We collect fees associated with training, installation, and technical support services, primarily related to the set up of our lighting solutions.
We recognize revenue for these one-time services at the time the service is performed.
We also sell certain service-type warranties that extend coverages for products beyond their base warranties.
We account for service-type warranties as distinct performance obligations and recognize revenue for these contracts ratably over the life of the additional warranty period.
Claims related to service-type warranties are expensed as incurred.
Software
Software sales include licenses for software, data usage fees, and software as a service arrangements, which generally extend for one year or less.
We recognize revenue for software based on the contractual rights provided to a customer, which typically results in the recognition of revenue ratably over the contractual service period.
Shipping and Handling Activities
We account for all shipping and handling activities as activities to fulfill the promise to transfer products to our customers.
As such, we do not consider shipping and handling activities to be separate performance obligations, and we expense these costs as incurred.
Contracts with Multiple Performance Obligations
A small portion (approximately 5% for the periods presented) of our revenue was derived from the combination of any or all of our products, professional services, and software licenses.
Significant judgment may be required to determine which performance obligations are distinct and should be accounted for separately.
We allocate the expected consideration to be collected to each distinct performance obligation based on its standalone selling price.
Standalone selling price is generally determined using a cost plus margin valuation when no observable input is available.
The amount of consideration allocated to each performance obligation is recognized as revenue in accordance with the timing for products, professional services, and software as described above.
Contract Balances
Our rights related to collections from customers are unconditional and are reflected within Accounts receivable on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
We do not have any other significant contract assets.
Contract liabilities arise when we receive cash or an unconditional right to collect cash prior to the transfer of control of goods or services.
Current deferred revenues primarily consist of customer prepayments, software licenses, and to a lesser extent professional service and sales-type warranty fees collected prior to performing the related service.
Current deferred revenues are included within Other current liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
These services are expected to be performed within one year.
Non-current deferred revenues primarily consist of long-term service-type warranties, which are typically recognized ratably as revenue between five and ten years from the date of sale, and are included
ACUITY BRANDS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited)
within Other long-term liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Revenue recognized from beginning balances of contract liabilities during the nine months ended May 31, 2019 totaled $3.7 million.
Unsatisfied performance obligations that do not represent contract liabilities consist primarily of orders for physical goods that have not yet been shipped.
This backlog of orders at any given time is affected by various factors, including seasonality, cancellations, sales promotions, production cycle times, and the timing of receipt and shipment of orders, which are usually shipped within a few weeks of order receipt.
Accordingly, a comparison of backlog orders from period to period is not necessarily meaningful and may not be indicative of future shipments.
Disaggregated Revenues
Note 6 — Fair Value Measurements
We determine fair value measurements based on the assumptions a market participant would use in pricing an asset or liability.
ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (“ASC 820”), establishes a three level hierarchy making a distinction between market participant assumptions based on (i) unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in an active market (Level 1), (ii) quoted prices in markets that are not active or inputs that are observable either directly or indirectly for substantially the full term of the asset or liability (Level 2), and (iii) prices or valuation techniques that require inputs that are both unobservable and significant to the overall fair value measurement (Level 3).
Our cash and cash equivalents (Level 1), which are required to be carried at fair value and measured on a recurring basis, were $333.7 million and $129.1 million as of May 31, 2019 and August 31, 2018, respectively.
We utilize valuation methodologies to determine the fair values of our financial assets and liabilities in conformity with the concepts of “exit price” and the fair value hierarchy as prescribed in ASC 820.
All valuation methods and assumptions are validated at least quarterly to ensure the accuracy and relevance of the fair values.
There were no material changes to the valuation methods or assumptions used to determine fair values during the current period.
We used quoted market prices to determine the fair value of Level 1 assets and liabilities.
No transfers between the levels of the fair value hierarchy occurred during the current fiscal period.
In the event of a transfer in or out of a level within the fair value hierarchy, the transfers would be recognized on the date of occurrence.
Disclosures of fair value information about financial instruments (whether or not recognized in the balance sheet), for which it is practicable to estimate that value, are required each reporting period in addition to any financial instruments carried at fair value on a recurring basis as prescribed by ASC 825, Financial Instruments (“ASC 825”).
In cases where quoted market prices are not available, fair values are based on estimates using present value or other valuation techniques.
Those techniques are significantly affected by the assumptions used, including the discount rate and estimates of future cash flows.
ACUITY BRANDS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited)
The senior unsecured public notes are carried at the outstanding balance, net of unamortized bond discount and deferred costs, as of the end of the reporting period.
Fair value is estimated based on discounted future cash flows using rates currently available for debt of similar terms and maturity (Level 2).
The industrial revenue bond is carried at the outstanding balance as of the end of the reporting period.
The industrial revenue bond is a tax-exempt, variable-rate instrument that resets on a weekly basis; therefore, we estimate that the face amount of the bond approximates fair value as of May 31, 2019 based on bonds of similar terms and maturity (Level 2).
The bank loans are carried at the outstanding balance as of the end of the reporting period.
Fair value is estimated based on discounted future cash flows using rates currently available for debt of similar terms and maturity (Level 2).
ASC 825 excludes certain financial instruments and all nonfinancial instruments from its disclosure requirements.
Accordingly, the aggregate fair value amounts presented do not represent the underlying value to us.
In many cases, the fair value estimates cannot be substantiated by comparison to independent markets, nor can the disclosed value be realized in immediate settlement of the instruments.
In evaluating our management of liquidity and other risks, the fair values of all assets and liabilities should be taken into consideration, not only those presented above.
Note 7 — Goodwill and Intangible Assets
Through multiple acquisitions, we acquired definite-lived intangible assets consisting primarily of trademarks and trade names associated with specific products, distribution networks, patented technology, non-compete agreements, and customer relationships, which are amortized over their estimated useful lives.
Indefinite-lived intangible assets consist of trade names that are expected to generate cash flows indefinitely.
We recorded amortization expense of $7.7 million and $7.2 million during the three months ended May 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $23.1 million and $20.5 million during the nine months ended May 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Amortization expense is generally recorded on a straight-line basis and is expected to be approximately $30.7 million in fiscal 2019, $30.7 million in fiscal 2020, $27.9 million in fiscal 2021, $27.0 million in fiscal 2022, and $25.8 million in fiscal 2023.
Further discussion of goodwill and other intangible assets is included within the Significant Accounting Policies footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within our Form 10-K.
ACUITY BRANDS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited)
Note 8 — Inventories
Note 9 — Earnings Per Share
Basic earnings per share for the periods presented is computed by dividing net earnings available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding.
Diluted earnings per share is computed similarly but reflects the potential dilution that would occur if dilutive options were exercised, all unvested share-based payment awards were vested, and other distributions related to deferred stock agreements were incurred.
Further discussion of our stock options and restricted stock awards is included within the Common Stock and Related Matters and Share-based Payments footnotes of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within our Form 10-K.
ACUITY BRANDS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited)
Note 10 — Changes in Stockholders' Equity
ACUITY BRANDS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited)
Note 11 — Comprehensive Income
Comprehensive income represents a measure of all changes in equity that result from recognized transactions and other economic events other than transactions with owners in their capacity as owners.
Other comprehensive income (loss) includes foreign currency translation and pension adjustments.
The before tax amounts of the defined benefit pension plan items reclassified from Accumulated other comprehensive loss are included in Miscellaneous expense, net on the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income.
See the Pension Plans footnote within the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details.
ACUITY BRANDS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited)
ACUITY BRANDS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited)
Note 12 — Debt and Lines of Credit
Lines of Credit
On June 29, 2018, we entered into a credit agreement (“Credit Agreement”) with a syndicate of banks that provides us with a $400.0 million five-year unsecured revolving credit facility (“Revolving Credit Facility”) and a $400.0 million unsecured delayed draw term loan facility (“Term Loan Facility”).
We had no borrowings outstanding under the current Revolving Credit Facility or Term Loan Facility as of May 31, 2019.
Additionally, we had no borrowings outstanding under our previous credit facility as of August 31, 2018.
Generally, amounts outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility allow for borrowings to bear interest at either the Eurocurrency Rate or the base rate at our option, plus an applicable margin.
Eurocurrency Rate advances can be denominated in a variety of currencies, including U.S.
Dollars, and amounts outstanding bear interest at a periodic fixed rate equal to the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) or screen rate for the applicable currency plus an applicable margin.
The Eurocurrency applicable margin is based on our leverage ratio, as defined in the Credit Agreement, with such margin ranging from 1.000% to 1.375%.
Base rate advances bear interest at an alternate base rate plus an applicable margin.
The base rate applicable margin is based on our leverage ratio, as defined in the Credit Agreement, with such margin ranging from 0.000% to 0.375%.
The Term Loan Facility allows for borrowings to be drawn over a period ending December 31, 2019, utilizing up to four separate installments, which are U.S. dollar denominated.
Borrowings under the Term Loan Facility will amortize in equal quarterly installments of 2.5% per year in year one, 2.5% per year in year two, 5.0% per year in year three, 5.0% per year in year four, and 7.5% per year in year five.
Any remaining borrowings under the Term Loan Facility are due and payable in full on June 29, 2023.
The Term Loan Facility allows for borrowings to bear interest at either a Eurocurrency Rate or the base rate, at our option, in each case plus an applicable margin.
Eurocurrency Rate advances can be denominated in a variety of currencies, including U.S.
Dollars, and amounts outstanding bear interest at a periodic fixed rate equal to the LIBOR or screen rate for the applicable currency plus an applicable margin.
The Eurocurrency applicable margin is based on our leverage ratio, as defined in the Credit Agreement, with such margin ranging from 0.875% to 1.250%.
Base Rate advances bear interest at an alternate base rate plus an applicable margin.
The base rate applicable margin is based on our leverage ratio, as defined in the Credit Agreement, with such margin ranging from 0.0% to 0.25%.
We are required to pay certain fees in connection with the Credit Agreement, including administrative service fees and annual facility fees.
The annual facility fee is payable quarterly, in arrears, and is determined by our leverage ratio as defined in the Credit Agreement.
The facility fee ranges from 0.125% to 0.25% of the aggregate $800.0 million commitment of the lenders under the Credit Agreement.
The Credit Agreement contains financial covenants, including a minimum interest expense coverage ratio (“Minimum Interest Expense Coverage Ratio”) and a leverage ratio (“Maximum Leverage Ratio”) of total indebtedness to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, and amortization (“EBITDA”), as such terms are defined in the Credit Agreement.
These ratios are computed at the end of each fiscal quarter for the most recent 12-month period.
The Credit Agreement generally allows for a Minimum Interest Expense Coverage Ratio of 2.50 and a Maximum Leverage Ratio of 3.50, subject to certain conditions, as such terms are defined in the Credit Agreement.
We were in compliance with all financial covenants under the Credit Agreement as of May 31, 2019.
At May 31, 2019, we had additional borrowing capacity under the Credit Agreement of $794.7 million under the most restrictive covenant in effect at the time, which represents the full amount of the Revolving Credit Facility and the Term Loan Facility less the outstanding letters of credit of $5.3 million issued under the Revolving Credit Facility.
As of May 31, 2019, we had outstanding letters of credit totaling $9.5 million, primarily for securing collateral requirements under our casualty insurance programs and for providing credit support for our industrial revenue bond, which includes the $5.3 million issued under the Revolving Credit Facility.
Long-term Debt
At May 31, 2019, we had $350.0 million of publicly-traded, senior unsecured notes outstanding at a 6% interest rate that are scheduled to mature in December 2019 (the “Unsecured Notes”).
Although the Unsecured Notes will mature within one year from May 31, 2019, we have the ability and intent to refinance these borrowings using availability under our Term Loan Facility, subject to satisfying the applicable conditions precedent.
Currently, we plan to refinance the Unsecured Notes in full at maturity with borrowings under the Term Loan Facility, of which $341.1 million of the current carrying value of the Unsecured Notes would be due more than one year from the anticipated refinancing date.
As such, this amount is reflected within Long-term debt on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of May 31, 2019.
We also had $4.0 million of tax-exempt industrial revenue bonds that are scheduled to mature in 2021 and $2.8 million
ACUITY BRANDS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited)
outstanding under fixed-rate bank loans outstanding at May 31, 2019.
Further discussion of our long-term debt is included within the Debt and Lines of Credit footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within our Form 10-K.
Interest Expense, net
Interest expense, net, is comprised primarily of interest expense on long-term debt, obligations in connection with non-qualified retirement benefits, and Revolving Credit Facility borrowings, partially offset by interest income earned on cash and cash equivalents.
Note 13 — Commitments and Contingencies
In the normal course of business, we are subject to the effects of certain contractual stipulations, events, transactions, and laws and regulations that may, at times, require the recognition of liabilities, such as those related to self-insurance reserves and claims, legal and contractual issues, environmental laws and regulations, guarantees, and indemnities.
We establish reserves when the associated costs related to uncertainties or guarantees become probable and can be reasonably estimated.
For the period ended May 31, 2019, no material changes have occurred in our reserves for self-insurance, litigation, environmental matters, guarantees and indemnities, or relevant events and circumstances, from those disclosed in the Commitments and Contingencies footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within our Form 10-K.
Product Warranty and Recall Costs
Our products generally have a standard warranty term of five years that assure our products comply with agreed upon specifications.
We record an allowance for the estimated amount of future warranty costs when the related revenue is recognized.
Estimated costs related to product recalls based on a formal campaign soliciting repair or return of that product are accrued when they are deemed to be probable and can be reasonably estimated.
Estimated future warranty and recall costs are primarily based on historical experience of identified warranty and recall claims.
However, there can be no assurance that future warranty or recall costs will not exceed historical amounts or that new technology products may not generate unexpected costs.
If actual future warranty or recall costs exceed historical amounts, additional allowances may be required, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows.
ACUITY BRANDS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited)
Securities Class Action
Litigation
We are subject to various other legal claims arising in the normal course of business, including patent infringement, employment matters, and product liability claims.
Based on information currently available, it is the opinion of management that the ultimate resolution of any such pending and threatened legal proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
However, in the event of unexpected future developments, it is possible that the ultimate resolution of any such matters, if unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows in future periods.
We establish reserves for legal claims when associated costs become probable and can be reasonably estimated.
The actual costs of resolving legal claims may be substantially higher than the amounts reserved for such claims.
However, we cannot make a meaningful estimate of actual costs to be incurred that could possibly be higher or lower than the amounts reserved.
Trade Compliance Matters
ACUITY BRANDS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited)
Note 14 — Share-based Payments
We account for share-based payments through the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for share-based payment awards made to employees and directors, including stock options and restricted shares (all part of our equity incentive plan), and share units representing certain deferrals into our director deferred compensation plan or our supplemental deferred savings plan.
Further details regarding each of these award programs and our share-based payments are included within the Share-based Payments footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within our Form 10-K.
Note 15 — Pension Plans
Further details regarding our pension plans are included within the Pension and Defined Contribution Plans footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within our Form 10-K.
Note 16 — Special Charge
ACUITY BRANDS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited)
Note 17 — Income Taxes
During the second quarter of fiscal 2019, we finalized our accounting for the tax effects of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“TCJA”) in accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
118 (“SAB 118”).
As a result, we recorded a net tax benefit of $0.9 million related to TCJA impacts including, but not limited to, our one-time transition tax, deferred income taxes, and executive compensation.
Previously, we asserted that all undistributed earnings and original investments in foreign subsidiaries were indefinitely reinvested and, therefore, had not recorded any deferred taxes related to any outside basis differences associated with our foreign subsidiaries.
As of May 31, 2019, the estimated undistributed earnings from foreign subsidiaries was $84.4 million.
A significant portion of these earnings was subject to U.S. federal taxation in fiscal 2018 as part of the one-time transition tax.
We are no longer asserting indefinite reinvestment on the portion of our unremitted earnings that were previously subject to U.S. federal taxation with the one-time transition tax.
Accordingly, we recognized a deferred income tax liability of $0.6 million for certain foreign withholding taxes and U.S. state taxes during the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
With respect to unremitted earnings and original investments in foreign subsidiaries where we are continuing to assert indefinite reinvestment, any future remittances could be subject to additional foreign withholding taxes, U.S. state taxes, and certain tax impacts relating to foreign currency exchange effects.
It is not practicable to estimate the amount of any unrecognized tax effects on these reinvested earnings and original investments in foreign subsidiaries.
We have elected to account for the tax on Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (“GILTI”) as a period cost and, therefore, do not record deferred taxes related to GILTI on our foreign subsidiaries.
Further details regarding the effects of the TCJA are included within the Income Taxes footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within our Form 10-K.
ACUITY BRANDS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited)
Note 18 — Supplemental Guarantor Condensed Consolidating Financial Statements
In December 2009, ABL, the 100% owned and principal operating subsidiary of Acuity Brands, refinanced the then current outstanding debt through the issuance of the Unsecured Notes.
See Debt and Lines of Credit footnote for further information.
In accordance with the registration rights agreement by and between ABL and the guarantors to the Unsecured Notes and the initial purchasers of the Unsecured Notes, ABL and the guarantors to the Notes filed a registration statement with the SEC for an offer to exchange the Unsecured Notes for an issue of SEC-registered notes with identical terms.
Due to the filing of the registration statement and offer to exchange, we determined the need for compliance with Rule 3-10 of SEC Regulation S-X (“Rule 3-10”).
In lieu of providing separate audited financial statements for ABL and ABL IP Holding, we have included the accompanying Condensed Consolidating Financial Statements in accordance with Rule 3-10(d) of SEC Regulation S-X since the Unsecured Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Acuity Brands and ABL IP Holding.
The column marked “Parent” represents the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of Acuity Brands.
The column marked “Subsidiary Issuer” represents the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of ABL.
The column entitled “Subsidiary Guarantor” represents the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of ABL IP Holding.
Lastly, the column listed as “Non-Guarantors” includes the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of the non-guarantor direct and indirect subsidiaries of Acuity Brands, which consist primarily of foreign subsidiaries.
Consolidating adjustments were necessary in order to arrive at consolidated amounts.
In addition, the equity method of accounting was used to calculate investments in subsidiaries.
Accordingly, this basis of presentation is not intended to present the Company's financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows for any purpose other than to comply with the specific requirements for parent-subsidiary guarantor reporting.
ACUITY BRANDS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited)
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEETS
ACUITY BRANDS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited)
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEETS
ACUITY BRANDS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited)
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
ACUITY BRANDS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited)
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
ACUITY BRANDS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited)
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
ACUITY BRANDS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited)
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
ACUITY BRANDS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited)
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
ACUITY BRANDS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited)
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
Item 1.Legal Proceedings
We are subject to various other legal claims arising in the normal course of business, including, but not limited to, patent infringement, product liability claims, and employment matters.
We are self-insured up to specified limits for certain types of claims, including product liability, and are fully self-insured for certain other types of claims, including environmental, product recall, and patent infringement.
Based on information currently available, it is the opinion of management that the ultimate resolution of any such pending and threatened legal proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows of the Company.
However, in the event of unexpected future developments, it is possible that the ultimate resolution of any such matters, if unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows in future periods.
We establish reserves for legal claims when the costs associated with the claims become probable and can be reasonably estimated.
The actual costs of resolving legal claims may be substantially higher than the amounts reserved for such claims.
However, we cannot make a meaningful estimate of actual costs to be incurred that could possibly be higher or lower than the amounts reserved.
Information regarding reportable legal proceedings is contained in Part I, Item 3.
Legal Proceedings in the Company’s Form 10-K. Information set forth in this report’s Commitments and Contingencies footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements describes any legal proceedings that became reportable during the quarter ended May 31, 2019, and updates any descriptions of previously reported legal proceedings in which there have been material developments during such quarter.
The discussion of legal proceedings included within the Commitments and Contingencies footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is incorporated into this Item 1 by reference.
Item 1a.Risk Factors
There have been no material changes in our risk factors from those disclosed in Part I, Item 1a.
Risk Factors of our Form 10-K.
Item 5.Other Information
Declaration of Dividend
On June 28, 2019, the the Board of Directors (the “Board”) declared a quarterly dividend of $0.13 per share.
The dividend is payable on August 1, 2019 to stockholders of record on July 17, 2019.
Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
•addition of performance-based restricted shares utilizing a 3-year performance metric;
•elimination of stock options;
•addition of Return on Invested Capital in excess of Weighted Average Cost of Capital as a performance metric under both the cash bonus and equity incentive programs; and
•elimination of annual Diluted Earnings Per Share as a metric under both the cash bonus and equity incentive plans.
This summary of the amendments to the SERP and SDSP is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Acuity Brands, Inc. 2002 Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, effective as of January 1, 2003, as amended and restated effective as of July 1, 2019, and the Acuity Brands, Inc. 2005 Supplemental Deferred Savings Plan, as amended and restated effective July 1, 2019, except where otherwise noted, which are set forth in Exhibits 10(b) and 10(c) to this Quarterly Report filed on Form 10-Q.
Item 6.Exhibits
Exhibits are listed on the Index to Exhibits.
INDEX TO EXHIBITS
EXHIBIT 3(a)Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Acuity Brands, Inc. (formerly Acuity Brands Holdings, Inc.), dated as of September 26, 2007.
Reference is made to Exhibit 3.1 of registrant's Form 8-K as filed with the Commission on September 26, 2007, which is incorporated herein by reference.
 (b)Certificate of Amendment of Acuity Brands, Inc. (formerly Acuity Brands Holdings, Inc.), dated as of September 26, 2007.
Reference is made to Exhibit 3.2 of registrant's Form 8-K as filed with the Commission on September 26, 2007, which is incorporated herein by reference.
 (c)Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Acuity Brands, Inc., dated as of January 6, 2017.
Reference is made to Exhibit 3.C of registrant's Form 10-Q as filed with the Commission on January 9, 2017, which is incorporated herein by reference.
 (d)Amended and Restated Bylaws of Acuity Brands, Inc., dated as of January 6, 2017.
Reference is made to Exhibit 3.D of registrant's Form 10-Q as filed with the Commission on January 9, 2017, which is incorporated herein by reference.
EXHIBIT 10(a)Amendment No.
1 dated as of April 22, 2019 to Credit Agreement dated as of June 29, 2018.
Reference is made to Exhibit 10.1 of registrant's Form 8-K as filed with the Commission on April 24, 2019, which is incorporated herein by reference.
 (b)Acuity Brands, Inc. 2005 Supplemental Deferred Savings Plan as Amended and Restated effective July 1, 2019
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
 (c)Acuity Brands, Inc. 2002 Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan Amended and Restated as of July 1, 2019.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
EXHIBIT 31(a)Certification of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
 (b)Certification of the Chief Financial Officer of the Company pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
EXHIBIT 32(a)Certification of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
 (b)Certification of the Chief Financial Officer of the Company pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
EXHIBIT 101.INSXBRL Instance Document The instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the Inline XBRL document.
 .SCHXBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
 .CALXBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
 .DEFXBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
 .LABXBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
 .PREXBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
ACUITY BRANDS, INC.
