Item 4.Controls and Procedures

Disclosure controls and procedures are controls and other procedures that are designed to reasonably ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports filed or submitted by us under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) rules and forms.
Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to reasonably ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports filed under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management, including the principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
As required by SEC rules, we have evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of November 30, 2018.
This evaluation was carried out under the supervision and with the participation of management, including the principal executive officer and principal financial officer.
Based on this evaluation, these officers have concluded that the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures are effective at a reasonable assurance level as of November 30, 2018.
However, because all disclosure procedures must rely to a significant degree on actions or decisions made by employees throughout the organization, such as reporting of material events, the Company and its reporting officers believe that they cannot provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud or errors and omissions, if any, within the Company will be detected.
Limitations within any control system, including our control system, include faulty judgments in decision-making or simple errors or mistakes.
In addition, controls can be circumvented by an individual, by collusion between two or more people, or by management override of the control.
Because of these limitations, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be detected.
OTHER INFORMATION

Item 1.Legal Proceedings


We are subject to various other legal claims arising in the normal course of business, including, but not limited to, patent infringement, product liability claims, and employment matters.
We are self-insured up to specified limits for certain types of claims, including product liability, and are fully self-insured for certain other types of claims, including environmental, product recall, and patent infringement.
Based on information currently available, it is the opinion of management that the ultimate resolution of any such pending and threatened legal proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows of the Company.
However, in the event of unexpected future developments, it is possible that the ultimate resolution of any such matters, if unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows in future periods.
We establish reserves for legal claims when the costs associated with the claims become probable and can be reasonably estimated.
The actual costs of resolving legal claims may be substantially higher than the amounts reserved for such claims.
However, we cannot make a meaningful estimate of actual costs to be incurred that could possibly be higher or lower than the amounts reserved.
Information regarding reportable legal proceedings is contained in Part I, Item 3.
Legal Proceedings in the Company’s Form 10-K. Information set forth in this report’s Commitments and Contingencies footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements describes any legal proceedings that became reportable during the quarter ended November 30, 2018, and updates any descriptions of previously reported legal proceedings in which there have been material developments during such quarter.
The discussion of legal proceedings included within the Commitments and Contingencies footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is incorporated into this Item 1 by reference.
Item 1a.Risk Factors

There have been no material changes in our risk factors from those disclosed in Part I, Item 1a.
Risk Factors of our Form 10-K.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds



Item 5.Other Information

Results of Annual Stockholders Meeting

At our annual meeting of stockholders held on January 4, 2019, in Atlanta, Georgia, the stockholders considered and voted on the following proposals.
as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm; and (iii) approved, on an advisory basis, the Company's named executive officer compensation.
Declaration of Dividend

On January 4, 2019, the Board declared a quarterly dividend of $0.13 per share.
The dividend is payable on February 1, 2019 to stockholders of record on January 18, 2019.
Size of Board

On January 4, 2019, the Board of Directors (the “Board”) reduced the size of the Board from eleven members to ten following the retirement of Norman H. Wesley from the Board.
Item 6.Exhibits

Exhibits are listed on the Index to Exhibits.
INDEX TO EXHIBITS

EXHIBIT 3(a)Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Acuity Brands, Inc. (formerly Acuity Brands Holdings, Inc.), dated as of September 26, 2007.
Reference is made to Exhibit 3.1 of registrant's Form 8-K as filed with the Commission on September 26, 2007, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Reference is made to Exhibit 3.2 of registrant's Form 8-K as filed with the Commission on September 26, 2007, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Reference is made to Exhibit 3.C of registrant's Form 10-Q as filed with the Commission on January 9, 2017, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Reference is made to Exhibit 3.D of registrant's Form 10-Q as filed with the Commission on January 9, 2017, which is incorporated herein by reference.
EXHIBIT 10(a)Amendment No.
8 to Acuity Brands, Inc.
Amended and Restated Severance Agreement between Acuity Brands, Inc. and Richard K. Reece dated January 4, 2019.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
1 to Acuity Brands, Inc.
Severance Agreement between Acuity Brands, Inc. and Laurent J. Vernerey dated January 4, 2019.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
Compensation for Non-Employee Directors (Effective September 1, 2018) Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
EXHIBIT 31(a)Certification of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
EXHIBIT 32(a)Certification of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
