a nanotechnology that relies on electron spin rather than electron charge to acquire,
of NVE Corporation are prepared consistent with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States and in accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission
rules and regulations. In the opinion of management, these financial statements
that the disclosures are adequate to make the information presented not misleading,
it is suggested that these unaudited financial statements be read in conjunction
indicative of the results that may be expected for the full fiscal year ending
by the transfer of control of products or services to our customers, in an amount
products or services. Revenue is disaggregated into product sales and contract
research and development to depict the nature, amount, timing of revenue recognition
and distributors when we satisfy our performance obligation, at a point in time,
by agreed upon shipping terms. Shipping charges billed to customers are included
in product sales and the related shipping costs are included in selling, general,
such as for facilitating the sale of custom products or research and development
contracts with third parties. We recognize any such commissions as selling, general,
over a period of time as the performance obligation is satisfied over a period
of time rather than a point in time. Contracts have specifications unique to each
customer and do not create an asset with an alternate use, and we have an enforceable
a period of time using costs incurred as the measurement of progress towards completion.
a good or service to a customer and our right to receive consideration is unconditional
when we have a right to consideration from the transfer of goods or services to
a customer but have not completed our performance obligation. A contract liability
is recognized when we have been paid by a customer but have not yet satisfied
the performance obligation by transferring goods or services. We had no material
and contract research and development contracts are satisfied in one year or less.
Unsatisfied performance obligations represent contracts with an original expected
are using the practical expedient not to disclose the value of these unsatisfied
performance obligations. We also use the practical expedient in which we do not
assess whether a contract has a significant financing component if the expectation
at contract inception is such that the period between payment by the customer
and the transfer of the promised goods or services to the customer will be one
requirements for fair value measurements by removing, modifying, or adding certain
which will be fiscal 2021 for us. Early adoption is permitted for the removed
disclosures and delayed adoption is permitted until fiscal 2021 for the new disclosures.
We adopted ASU 2018-13 early, effective the quarter ended September 30, 2018.
The removed and modified disclosures were adopted on a retrospective basis and
the new disclosures on a prospective basis. The adoption did not have a significant
within accumulated other comprehensive income or loss due to the enactment of
those fiscal years, which will be fiscal 2020 for us. Early adoption is permitted,
resulted in a $60,365 reclassification from accumulated other comprehensive loss
and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows.
and financial statement presentation of equity investments, other than those accounted
for under the equity method of accounting or those that result in consolidation
of the investee. The amendment provides clarity on the measurement methodology
to be used for the required disclosure of fair value of financial instruments
measured at amortized cost on the balance sheet and clarifies that an entity should
which superseded the revenue recognition requirements in Accounting Standards
principle that revenue is recognized to depict the transfer of goods or services
expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. It also requires
and cash flows arising from customer contracts, including significant judgments
issued accounting standards, on which our position have not changed since our
latest annual financial statements, are contained in the financial statements
which clarifies codification and corrects unintended application of the guidance.
at amortized cost basis to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected.
The allowance for credit losses is a valuation account that is deducted from the
amortized cost basis of the financial asset(s) to present the net carrying value
fiscal years, which will be fiscal 2021 for us. We do not expect adoption of the
lease liabilities on the balance sheet of lessees. In July 2018, the FASB issued
2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years, which will be fiscal 2020
at the earliest comparative period presented in its financial statements. We expect
expect to recognize a liability and corresponding asset associated with in-scope
operating and finance leases but are still in the process of determining those
amounts and the processes required to account for leasing activity on an ongoing
the weighted-average number of common shares issued and outstanding during each
period. Net income per diluted share amounts assume exercise of all stock options.
as available-for-sale securities and carried at estimated fair value. Unrealized
holding gains and losses are included in accumulated other comprehensive income
highly-liquid investments with maturities of three months or less when purchased,
including money market funds, to be cash equivalents. Gains and losses on marketable
prescribe required disclosures about fair-value measurements. Generally accepted
sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability. Fair value is a market-based measurement
that should be determined using assumptions that market participants would use
in pricing an asset or liability. Generally accepted accounting principles utilize
a valuation hierarchy for disclosure of fair value measurements. The categorization
within the valuation hierarchy is based on the lowest level of input that is significant
to the fair value measurement. The categories within the valuation hierarchy are
or inputs that are either directly or indirectly observable, such as interest
losses and fair value of our available-for-sale securities with unrealized holding
losses, aggregated by class of securities and length of time that individual securities
were impaired at acquisition, and subsequent declines in fair value are not attributed
to declines in credit quality. When evaluating for impairment we assess indicators
that include, but are not limited to, earnings performance, changes in underlying
credit ratings, market conditions, bona fide offers to purchase or sell, and ability
to hold until maturity. Because we believe it is more likely than not we will
fiscal 2018. Stock-based compensation expenses were due to the automatic issuance
their reelection to our Board. We calculate the share-based compensation expense
using the Black-Scholes standard option-pricing model. The increase in stock-based
compensation expense for fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 was due to an increase
of temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities
to titles II and V of the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year
interest related to uncertain tax positions. The tax years 1999 and 2014 through
of additional repurchases. We did not repurchase any
2018. The remaining authorization was $4,540,806
forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995. These statements are subject to the safe harbor provisions
of the reform act. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of
should, or continue, or the negatives of these terms or other variations on these
to in this Report or in the documents incorporated by reference in this Report.
our, develops and sells devices that use spintronics, a nanotechnology that relies
2018 (the third quarter of fiscal 2019) decreased 15% compared to the quarter
in contract research and development revenue for the third quarter of fiscal 2019
of fiscal 2019 compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2018, due to a 32% increase
in research and development expense partially offset by a 14% decrease in selling,
general, and administrative expense. The increase in research and development
expense was due to an increase in new product development activities. The decrease
2019 increased 13% due to an increase in the average interest rates on our marketable
taxes for the quarter, compared to 28% in the prior-year quarter. The decreased
of fiscal 2019 compared to the prior-year quarter was primarily due to a decrease
partially offset by an increase in gross profit margin, an increase in interest
to a 57% decrease in contract research and development revenue. The decrease in
contract research and development revenue was due to the completion of certain
for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared to 78% for the first nine months
of fiscal 2019 compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2018, due to an 11%
increase in research and development expense, partially offset by an 8% decrease
in selling, general, and administrative expense. The increase in research and
development expense was due to an increase in new product development activities.
The decrease in selling, general, and administrative expense was due to staffing
2019 increased 15% due to an increase in the average interest rates on our marketable
taxes for the first nine months of fiscal 2019, compared to 31% in the prior-year
period. The decrease was due to the effect of a decrease in the Federal tax rate
months of fiscal 2019 compared to the prior-year period was primarily due to increased
offset by $14,310,090 of cash used in financing activities. We currently believe
our working capital and cash generated from operations will be adequate for our
maturities, partially offset by $11,649,227 of purchases of marketable securities
months of fiscal 2019 was due to $14,528,030 of cash dividends paid to shareholders,
partially offset by $217,940 in proceeds from sale of common stock from stock
We plan to fund dividends through cash provided by operating activities and proceeds
from maturities and sales of marketable securities. All future dividends will
cash and marketable security balances, estimates of future cash requirements,
the period covered by this Report. This evaluation included consideration of the
recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified
communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required
disclosure. Based on such evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
involved in litigation. At this time we are not aware of any material pending
factors disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
