a nanotechnology that relies on electron spin rather than electron charge to acquire,
of NVE Corporation are prepared consistent with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States and in accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission
rules and regulations. In the opinion of management, these financial statements
that the disclosures are adequate to make the information presented not misleading,
it is suggested that these unaudited financial statements be read in conjunction
by the transfer of control of products or services to our customers, in an amount
products or services. Revenue is disaggregated into product sales and contract
research and development to depict the nature, amount, timing of revenue recognition
and distributors when we satisfy our performance obligation, at a point in time,
upon product shipment or delivery to our customer or distributor as determined
by agreed upon shipping terms. Shipping charges billed to customers are included
in product sales and the related shipping costs are included in selling, general,
such as for facilitating the sale of custom products or research and development
contracts with third parties. We recognize any such commissions as selling, general,
over a period of time as the performance obligation is satisfied over a period
of time rather than a point in time. Contracts have specifications unique to each
customer and do not create an asset with an alternate use, and we have an enforceable
a period of time using costs incurred as the measurement of progress towards completion.
a good or service to a customer and our right to receive consideration is unconditional
through the completion of our performance obligation. A contract asset is recognized
when we have a right to consideration from the transfer of goods or services to
a customer but have not completed our performance obligation. A contract liability
is recognized when we have been paid by a customer but have not yet satisfied
the performance obligation by transferring goods or services. We had no material
and contract research and development contracts are satisfied in one year or less.
Unsatisfied performance obligations represent contracts with an original expected
are using the practical expedient not to disclose the value of these unsatisfied
performance obligations. We also use the practical expedient in which we do not
assess whether a contract has a significant financing component if the expectation
at contract inception is such that the period between payment by the customer
and the transfer of the promised goods or services to the customer will be one
rate on items within accumulated other comprehensive income or loss due to the
those fiscal years, which will be fiscal 2020 for us. Early adoption is permitted,
resulted in a $60,365 reclassification from accumulated other comprehensive loss
and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows.
and financial statement presentation of equity investments, other than those accounted
for under the equity method of accounting or those that result in consolidation
of the investee. The amendment provides clarity on the measurement methodology
to be used for the required disclosure of fair value of financial instruments
measured at amortized cost on the balance sheet and clarifies that an entity should
evaluate the need for a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets related to
which superseded the revenue recognition requirements in Accounting Standards
principle that revenue is recognized to depict the transfer of goods or services
expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. It also requires
additional disclosure about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue
and cash flows arising from customer contracts, including significant judgments
issued accounting standards, on which our position have not changed since our
latest annual financial statements, are contained in the financial statements
the weighted-average number of common shares issued and outstanding during each
period. Net income per diluted share amounts assume exercise of all stock options.
as available-for-sale securities and carried at estimated fair value. Unrealized
holding gains and losses are included in accumulated other comprehensive income
highly-liquid investments with maturities of three months or less when purchased,
including money market funds, to be cash equivalents. Gains and losses on marketable
required disclosures about fair-value measurements. Generally accepted accounting
principles define fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset
or paid to transfer a liability. Fair value is a market-based measurement that
should be determined using assumptions that market participants would use in pricing
an asset or liability. Generally accepted accounting principles utilize a valuation
the valuation hierarchy is based on the lowest level of input that is significant
to the fair value measurement. The categories within the valuation hierarchy are
or inputs that are either directly or indirectly observable, such as interest
of the individual securities. As a result, bonds with a total fair value of $51,558,274
losses and fair value of our available-for-sale securities with unrealized holding
losses, aggregated by class of securities and length of time that individual securities
impaired at acquisition, and subsequent declines in fair value are not attributed
to declines in credit quality. When evaluating for impairment we assess indicators
that include, but are not limited to, earnings performance, changes in underlying
credit ratings, market conditions, bona fide offers to purchase or sell, and ability
to hold until maturity. Because we believe it is more likely than not we will
of temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities
to titles II and V of the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year
the documents incorporated by reference in this Report and in other materials
forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995. These statements are subject to the safe harbor provisions
of the reform act. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of
should, or continue, or the negatives of these terms or other variations on these
or estimated by us in the forward-looking statements. We have attempted to identify,
to in this Report or in the documents incorporated by reference in this Report.
our, develops and sells devices that use spintronics, a nanotechnology that relies
critical accounting policies and estimates continued to include investment valuation,
2018 (the first quarter of fiscal 2019) decreased 7% compared to the quarter ended
due to a 67% decrease in contract research and development revenue. The decrease
in contract research and development revenue was due to the completion of certain
of fiscal 2019 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2018, due to a 9% increase
in research and development expense, partially offset by an 18% decrease in selling,
general, and administrative expense. The increase in research and development
expense was due to increased new product development activities. The decrease
2019 increased 17% due to an increase in the average interest rates on our marketable
taxes for the quarter, compared to 32% in the prior-year quarter. The decrease
of fiscal 2019 compared to the prior-year quarter was primarily due to a decrease
2018 was due to $4,649,899 in net cash provided by operating activities and $3,888,890
used in financing activities. We currently believe our working capital and cash
partially offset by $3,373,125 of purchases of marketable securities and $37,985
of fiscal 2019 was due to a $4,842,010 quarterly dividend paid to shareholders.
provided by operating activities and proceeds from maturities and sales of marketable
securities. All future dividends will be subject to Board approval and subject
significantly increasing risk. To achieve this objective, we maintain our portfolio
of cash equivalents and marketable securities in securities including municipal
obligations, corporate obligations, and money market funds. Available-for-sale
securities are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value with unrealized gains
or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive
approximately 89% of our total assets. We have not used derivative financial instruments
the period covered by this Report. This evaluation included consideration of the
recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified
communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required
disclosure. Based on such evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
control activities within them. These included the development of new policies
based on the five-step model provided in the new revenue recognition standard,
involved in litigation. At this time we are not aware of any material pending
factors disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
