a nanotechnology that relies on electron spin rather than electron charge to acquire,
of NVE Corporation are prepared consistent with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States and in accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission
rules and regulations. In the opinion of management, these financial statements
necessary for a fair presentation of the financial statements. Although we believe
that the disclosures are adequate to make the information presented not misleading,
it is suggested that these unaudited financial statements be read in conjunction
indicative of the results that may be expected for the full fiscal year ending
ending March 31, 2018. The adoption did not have a significant impact on our financial
which supersedes the revenue recognition requirements in Accounting Standards
principle that revenue is recognized to depict the transfer of goods or services
expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. It also requires
additional disclosure about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue
and cash flows arising from customer contracts, including significant judgments
and changes in judgments and assets recognized from costs incurred to obtain or
those fiscal years, which will be fiscal 2019 for us. We plan to adopt the guidance
at the date of initial application. Under this approach, we would not restate
prior financial statements presented. Based on an evaluation, we do not expect
to change the manner or timing of recognizing revenue. We have evaluated each
of our revenue streams, product sales and contract research and development. We
recognize revenue on product sales to customers and distributors when we satisfy
our performance obligations as the products are shipped. We recognize contract
relative to the total expected costs as the measurement basis for progress toward
completion. We are currently evaluating the impact of new disclosure requirements
issued accounting standards, on which our position have not changed since our
latest annual financial statements, are contained in the financial statements
the weighted-average number of common shares issued and outstanding during each
period. Net income per diluted share amounts assume exercise of all stock options.
per share because the exercise prices were greater than the market price of the
common stock. The following tables show the components of diluted
greater than one year are classified as long-term. The fair value of our marketable
and fair value of our investments with unrealized losses, aggregated by investment
category and length of time that individual securities had been in a continuous
held, we do not consider any of our marketable securities to be impaired as of
their reelection to our Board. We calculate the share-based compensation expense
using the Black-Scholes standard option-pricing model. The increase in stock-based
of temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities
pursuant to titles II and V of the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal
January 1, 2018 and changed certain other provisions. Effective tax rates for
the estimated benefit of one quarter of Federal tax rate reductions for fiscal
2018. These benefits were partially offset by a one-time $206,693 unfavorable
interest related to uncertain tax positions. The tax years 1999 and 2013 through
2016 remain open to examination by the major taxing jurisdictions to which we
required disclosures about fair-value measurements. Generally accepted accounting
principles define fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset
or paid to transfer a liability. Fair value is a market-based measurement that
should be determined using assumptions that market participants would use in pricing
an asset or liability. Generally accepted accounting principles utilize a valuation
the valuation hierarchy is based on the lowest level of input that is significant
to the fair value measurement. The categories within the valuation hierarchy are
securities, which are classified as available-for-sale. On the balance sheets,
or inputs that are either directly or indirectly observable, such as interest
are unobservable inputs or valuation techniques. We do not have any financial
of additional repurchases. We did not repurchase any of our Common Stock under
the documents incorporated by reference in this Report and in other materials
forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995. These statements are subject to the safe harbor provisions
of the reform act. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of
should, or continue, or the negatives of these terms or other variations on these
or estimated by us in the forward-looking statements. We have attempted to identify,
experience and results to differ from their current expectations. These differences
related to the economic environments in the industries we serve, uncertainties
our, develops and sells devices that use spintronics, a nanotechnology that relies
on electron spin rather than electron charge to acquire, store and transmit information.
our critical accounting policies and estimates continued to include investment
2017 (the third quarter of fiscal 2018) decreased 1% compared to the quarter ended
to a 9% decrease in product sales, partially offset by a 164% increase in contract
quarter was primarily due to decreased purchases by existing customers. The increase
in contract research and development revenue for the third quarter of fiscal 2018
for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared to 80% for the third quarter of
of fiscal 2018 compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2017, due to a 19% decrease
in selling, general, and administrative expense, partially offset by a 3% increase
in research and development expense. The decrease in selling, general, and administrative
expense was due to decreased performance-based compensation and decreased legal
2018 increased 2% due to an increase in the average interest rates on our marketable
taxes for the quarter, compared to 32.3% in the prior-year quarter. The decrease
was due to the blended effect of a decrease in the Federal tax rate with the enactment
of fiscal 2018 compared to the prior-year quarter was primarily due to increased
contract research and development revenue, decreased selling, general, and administrative
increase was due to a 33% increase in contract research and development revenue.
months of fiscal 2018 compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2017, due to
a 19% increase in research and development expense, partially offset by a 5% decrease
in selling, general, and administrative expense. The decrease in selling, general,
and administrative expense was primarily due to decreased sales commissions. The
increase in research and development expense was due to increased new product
taxes for the first nine months of fiscal 2018, compared to 32.2% in the prior-year
period. The decreased rate was due to a decrease in the Federal tax rate with
Federal tax rate is effective for one quarter of fiscal 2018 and all of fiscal
in net income in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 compared to the prior-year
period was primarily due to increased contract research and development revenue
and $320,965 cash used in investing activities, partially offset by $11,321,943
in net cash provided by operating activities. We currently believe our working
securities and $604,755 in purchases of fixed assets, partially offset by $16,540,000
months of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to $14,523,030 of cash dividends paid
to shareholders. In addition to dividends paid in the first nine months of fiscal
quarterly dividend of $1.00 per share of common stock, or $4,842,010 based on
We plan to fund dividends through cash provided by operating activities and proceeds
from maturities and sales of marketable securities. All future dividends will
cash and marketable security balances, estimates of future cash requirements,
and other factors the Board may deem relevant. Furthermore, dividends may be modified
market risks, primarily marketable securities and, to a lesser extent, changes
is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing after-tax yields without
significantly increasing risk. To achieve this objective, we maintain our portfolio
of cash equivalents and marketable securities in securities including municipal
obligations, corporate obligations, and money market funds. Short-term and long-term
marketable securities are generally classified as available-for-sale and consequently
are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value with unrealized gains or losses
reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income or
approximately 85% of our total assets. We have not used derivative financial instruments
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has performed an evaluation of
the period covered by this Report. This evaluation included consideration of the
recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified
communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required
disclosure. Based on such evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
involved in litigation. At this time we are not aware of any material pending
to titles II and V of the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year
2018 and changed certain other provisions. We expect the new law to significantly
of the new law are based on our current knowledge and assumptions, and recognized
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
