a nanotechnology that relies on electron spin rather than electron charge to acquire,
of NVE Corporation are prepared consistent with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States and in accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission
rules and regulations. In the opinion of management, these financial statements
that the disclosures are adequate to make the information presented not misleading,
certain disclosures have been omitted as allowed, and it is suggested that these
by the transfer of control of products or services to our customers, in an amount
products or services. Revenue is disaggregated into product sales and contract
research and development to depict the nature, amount, timing of revenue recognition
and distributors when we satisfy our performance obligation, at a point in time,
upon product shipment or delivery to our customer or distributor as determined
by agreed upon shipping terms. Shipping charges billed to customers are included
in product sales and the related shipping costs are included in cost of sales.
activities unrelated to their purchases of our products, such as for facilitating
the sale of custom products or research and development contracts with third parties.
We recognize any such commissions as selling, general, and administrative expenses.
over a period of time as the performance obligation is satisfied over a period
of time rather than a point in time. Contracts have specifications unique to each
customer and do not create an asset with an alternate use, and we have an enforceable
a period of time using costs incurred as the measurement of progress towards completion.
a good or service to a customer and our right to receive consideration is unconditional
through the completion of our performance obligation. A contract asset is recognized
when we have a right to consideration from the transfer of goods or services to
a customer but have not completed our performance obligation. A contract liability
is recognized when we have been paid by a customer but have not yet satisfied
the performance obligation by transferring goods or services. We had no material
and contract research and development contracts are satisfied in one year or less.
Unsatisfied performance obligations represent contracts with an original expected
are using the practical expedient not to disclose the value of these unsatisfied
performance obligations. We also use the practical expedient in which we do not
assess whether a contract has a significant financing component if the expectation
at contract inception is such that the period between payment by the customer
and the transfer of the promised goods or services to the customer will be one
lease liabilities on the balance sheet of lessees. In July 2018, the FASB issued
at the earliest comparative period presented in its financial statements, and
2019. Currently our only lease is the lease for our facility. We recognized $298,983
of leased liabilities and a right-of-use asset of $261,644 as of April 1, 2019.
The leased liabilities and right-of-use asset exclude non-lease components. There
which clarifies codification and corrects unintended application of the guidance.
at amortized cost basis to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected.
The allowance for credit losses is a valuation account that is deducted from the
amortized cost basis of the financial asset(s) to present the net carrying value
fiscal years, which will be fiscal 2021 for us. We do not expect adoption of the
the weighted-average number of common shares issued and outstanding during each
period. Net income per diluted share amounts assume exercise of all stock options.
as available-for-sale securities and carried at estimated fair value. Unrealized
holding gains and losses are included in accumulated other comprehensive income
maturities greater than one year are classified as long-term. We consider all
highly-liquid investments with maturities of three months or less when purchased,
including money market funds, to be cash equivalents. Gains and losses on marketable
prescribe required disclosures about fair-value measurements. Generally accepted
sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability. Fair value is a market-based measurement
that should be determined using assumptions that market participants would use
in pricing an asset or liability. Generally accepted accounting principles utilize
a valuation hierarchy for disclosure of fair value measurements. The categorization
within the valuation hierarchy is based on the lowest level of input that is significant
to the fair value measurement. The categories within the valuation hierarchy are
or inputs that are either directly or indirectly observable, such as interest
losses and fair value of our available-for-sale securities with unrealized holding
losses, aggregated by class of securities and length of time that individual securities
impaired at acquisition, and subsequent declines in fair value are not attributed
to declines in credit quality. When evaluating for impairment we assess indicators
that include, but are not limited to, earnings performance, changes in underlying
credit ratings, market conditions, bona fide offers to purchase or sell, and ability
to hold until maturity. Because we believe it is more likely than not we will
of temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities
related to uncertain tax positions. The tax years 2015 through 2018 remain open
to examination by the major taxing jurisdictions
a non-cancellable lease through December 31, 2020. Our lease does not provide
an implicit rate, so we used our incremental borrowing rate to determine the present
value of lease payments. Lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis
matching contributions were $24,066 for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and $23,298
the documents incorporated by reference in this Report and in other materials
forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995. These statements are subject to the safe harbor provisions
of the reform act. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of
should, or continue, or the negatives of these terms or other variations on these
or estimated by us in the forward-looking statements. We have attempted to identify,
our, develops and sells devices that use spintronics, a nanotechnology that relies
critical accounting policies and estimates continued to include investment valuation,
quarter was primarily due to decreased purchases by existing customers. The decrease
in contract research and development revenue the first quarter of fiscal 2020
for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to 80% for the first quarter of
of fiscal 2020 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2019 due to a 2% decrease
2020 increased 8% due to an increase in the average interest rates on our marketable
of fiscal 2020 compared to the prior-year quarter was primarily due to a decrease
compared to $3,838,022 for the prior-year quarter. The increase in comprehensive
income was due to an unrealized gain from marketable securities of $570,063 compared
to an unrealized loss of $107,027 in the prior-year quarter, partially offset
by a decrease in net income. The unrealized gain was due to strong bond market
was due to $4,537,628 in net cash provided by operating activities and $6,470,370
used in financing activities. We currently believe our working capital and cash
partially offset by $3,013,530 of purchases of marketable securities and $16,100
provided by operating activities and proceeds from maturities and sales of marketable
securities. All future dividends will be subject to Board approval and subject
the period covered by this Report. This evaluation included consideration of the
recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified
communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required
disclosure. Based on such evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
involved in litigation. At this time we are not aware of any material pending
factors disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
