rules and regulations. In the opinion of management, these financial statements
products or services. Revenue is disaggregated into product sales and contract
by agreed upon shipping terms. Shipping charges billed to customers are included
in product sales and the related shipping costs are included in cost of sales.
the sale of custom products or research and development contracts with third parties.
of time rather than a point in time. Contracts have specifications unique to each
a period of time using costs incurred as the measurement of progress towards completion.
through the completion of our performance obligation. A contract asset is recognized
a customer but have not completed our performance obligation. A contract liability
the performance obligation by transferring goods or services. We had no material
and contract research and development contracts are satisfied in one year or less.
performance obligations. We also use the practical expedient in which we do not
and Nos. 33-10231 and 33-10442, Investment Company Reporting Modernization, and
lease liabilities on the balance sheet of lessees. In July 2018, the FASB issued
our only lease is the lease for our facility. We recognized $298,983 of leased
liabilities a right-of-use asset of $261,644 as of April 1, 2019. The leased liabilities
and right-of-use asset exclude non-lease components. There was no effect on our
which clarifies codification and corrects unintended application of the guidance.
at amortized cost basis to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected.
fiscal years, which will be fiscal 2021 for us. We do not expect adoption of the
period. Net income per diluted share amounts assume exercise of all stock options.
as available-for-sale securities and carried at estimated fair value. Unrealized
including money market funds, to be cash equivalents. Gains and losses on marketable
approximately 71% of our total assets. Marketable
prescribe required disclosures about fair-value measurements. Generally accepted
sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability. Fair value is a market-based measurement
in pricing an asset or liability. Generally accepted accounting principles utilize
a valuation hierarchy for disclosure of fair value measurements. The categorization
to the fair value measurement. The categories within the valuation hierarchy are
to declines in credit quality. When evaluating for impairment we assess indicators
to hold until maturity. Because we believe it is more likely than not we will
quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019. Stock-based compensation expenses
a non-cancellable lease through December 31, 2020. Our lease does not provide
value of lease payments. Lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis
Reform Act of 1995. These statements are subject to the safe harbor provisions
of the reform act. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of
or estimated by us in the forward-looking statements. We have attempted to identify,
compared to $4,333,847 for the prior-year quarter. The decrease in comprehensive
the prior-year quarter. The increased unrealized gain was due to strong bond market
period was due to decreased purchase volumes by existing customers. The decrease
general, and administrative expense.  The
period. The increase was due to an unrealized gain from marketable securities
partially offset by a decrease in net income. The unrealized gain was due to strong
used in financing activities. We currently believe our working capital and cash
months of fiscal 2020 was due to $9,692,020 of cash dividends paid to shareholders.
securities. All future dividends will be subject to Board approval and subject
the period covered by this Report. This evaluation included consideration of the
disclosure. Based on such evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
involved in litigation. At this time we are not aware of any material pending
