fls.txt
We discuss many of these risks and uncertainties in Item 1A under the heading “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018.


item1.txt
The Company operates in two segments, its High Performance Products (“HPP”) segment and its Technology Solutions (“TS”) segment.
All adjustments were of a normal recurring nature.
Refer to Note 12 for additional information on discontinued operations.
We record revenue as gross when the Company is a principal party to the arrangement and net of cost when we are acting as a broker or agent.
are a single performance obligation in each sale.
Revenues from arrangements which include financing are allocated considering relative standalone selling prices of lease and non-lease components within the agreement.
Other services generally include revenue generated through our royalty, extended warranty, multicomputer repair, and maintenance contracts.
Multicomputer repair services revenue is recognized upon control transfer when the customer takes possession of the computer at time of shipping.
Managed service contracts contain the right to refund if canceled within 30 days of inception.
Myricom revenue is derived from the sale of products, which are comprised of both hardware and embedded software which is essential to the products functionality, and post contract maintenance and support.
Post contract maintenance and support is considered immaterial in the context of the contract and therefore is not a separate performance obligation.
TS Segment revenue is derived from the sale of hardware, software, professional services, third-party service contracts, maintenance contracts, managed services, and financing of hardware and software.
The input method using labor hours expended relative to the total expected hours is used to recognize revenue for professional services.
Only the hours that depict the Company’s performance toward satisfying a performance obligation are used for progress.
An estimate for professional services is made at the beginning of each contract based on prior experience and monitored throughout the services.
This method is most appropriate as it depicts the measure of progress towards satisfaction of the performance obligation.
For items sold separately, including hardware, software, professional services, maintenance contracts, other services, and third-party service contracts, there is no allocation performed as there is one performance obligation.


item2.txt
Except as required by law, we do not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements contained in this report, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606), our revenue recognition policy has changed effective October 1, 2018 and is included in Note 3 of our unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
See Note 11 of our unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 for effects of initial adoption and Note 3 of our unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 for further details on our revenue recognition policy.
No income taxes were provided as the transaction was a tax-free exchange in the U.K. Our revenues decreased by approximately $0.3 million, or 2%, to $16.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to $16.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
The decrease in revenue is the result of a decrease of $0.1 million in our TS segment, combined with a $0.2 million decrease in our HPP segment.
Our gross margin percentage decreased to 23% of revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2019 from 24% for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
Operating loss decreased by approximately $0.1 million from an operating loss of $0.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 to an operating loss of $0.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, primarily as a result of a decrease of $0.3 million in operating expenses partially offset by a $0.2 million decrease in gross profit.
Our provision for income tax was a tax benefit of $142 thousand for the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to a tax benefit of $160 thousand for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
Our revenues decreased by approximately $0.3 million to $16.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to $16.6 million of revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
The HPP product revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2019 of $1.4 million, decreased by $0.1 million from $1.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, primarily as a result of a decrease in Myricom product sales.
The decrease in TS segment product revenues was partially offset by an increase in TS segment service revenues of $0.3 million during the period.


item4.txt
The term “disclosure controls and procedures,” as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms.


