fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
The unaudited consolidated financial statements of Brooks Automation, Inc. and its subsidiaries (“Brooks”, or the “Company”) included herein have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP").
All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
These transactions do not qualify for hedge accounting.
Foreign exchange contract assets and liabilities are measured and reported at fair value based on observable market inputs and classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy described below due to a lack of an active market for these contracts.
As of June 30, 2018, the Company had no assets or liabilities measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis using Level 3 inputs.
In March 2018, the FASB issued Accounting Standard Update (“ASU”) 2018-02, Reclassification of Certain Tax Effects from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income, an amendment of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification.
Additionally, entities should separate the lease components from the non-lease components and allocate the contract consideration on a relative standalone price basis in accordance with provisions of ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018 and should be adopted via a modified retrospective approach with certain optional practical expedients that entities may elect to apply.
The new guidance introduces a new "expected loss" impairment model that applies to most financial assets measured at amortized cost and certain other instruments, including trade and other receivables, loans, held-to-maturity debt securities and other financial assets.
Additionally, the guidance amends the impairment model for available for sale debt securities and requires entities to determine whether all or a portion of the unrealized loss on such debt security is a credit loss.
In May 2014, the FASB issued new accounting guidance for reporting revenue recognition, ASC 606 Revenue from Contracts with Customer (“ASC 606”).
The guidance provides for the recognition of revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.


item2.txt
This section discusses accounting policies and estimates that require us to exercise subjective or complex judgments in their application.
This section provides an analysis of our financial results for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the three and nine months ended June 30, 2017.
You should read the MD&A in conjunction with our unaudited consolidated financial statements and related notes beginning on page 3 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Unless the context indicates otherwise, references in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q to "we", "us", "our" and "the Company" refer to Brooks Automation, Inc. and its subsidiaries.
Our leadership position and global support structure in each of these markets makes us a valued business partner to some of the world’s largest semiconductor capital equipment and device makers as well as pharmaceutical and life science companies and research institutions in the world.
In the life sciences sample management market, we utilize our core competencies and capabilities in automation and cryogenics to provide comprehensive bio-sample management solutions to a broad range of end markets within the life sciences industry.
The acquisition is expected to expand customer relationships and geographic reach within our growing sample management storage services business.
Please refer to Note 4, “Acquisitions” in the Notes to the unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 "Consolidated Financial Statements" of this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q for further information on these transactions.
fiscal years 2017 and 2016, more than 18% of our cumulative research and development spending was focused on innovating and advancing solutions while extending our reach into the life sciences sample management market.
In fiscal year 2016, we commercialized the internally-developed Biostore III Cryo, an automated system which incorporates sample retrieval, archiving, monitoring, tracking, inventory control, and related enterprise systems connectivity with the industry’s leading cryogenic sample storage freezers.
In fiscal year 2017, we launched BioStudies, a bioinformatics sample intelligence software platform that enables customers to manage their global samples.
Gross margin was 39.9% for the third quarter of fiscal year 2018 as compared to 39.4% for the third quarter of fiscal year 2017, which resulted in an increase in gross profit of $17.7 million.


item3.txt
At June 30, 2018, the outstanding term loan principal balance was $199.0 million, excluding unamortized deferred financing costs of $2.5 million.


item4.txt



part2.txt
We are subject to various legal proceedings, both asserted and unasserted, that arise in the ordinary course of business.


