fls.txt
You should read the MD&A in conjunction with our unaudited consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.


item1.txt
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
The unaudited consolidated financial statements of Brooks Automation, Inc. and its subsidiaries (“Brooks”, or the “Company”) included herein have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”).
All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The Company determined that the semiconductor cryogenics business met the “held for sale” criteria and the “discontinued operations” criteria in accordance with Financial Accounting Standard Boards (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 205, Presentation of Financial Statements, (“FASB ASC 205”) as of September 30, 2018.
Please refer to Note 3, “Discontinued Operations” for further information.
On July 1, 2019, the Company completed the Disposition for $675.0 million, subject to adjustments for working capital and other items.
As part of this amendment, liabilities assumed by the purchaser were revised to include accounts payable related to the semiconductor cryogenics business.
As of September 30, 2018, the Company has revised its accounts payable balance on a continuing operations basis to exclude accounts payable related to the semiconductor cryogenics business and revised its current liabilities held for sale balance to include accounts payable related to the semiconductor cryogenics business on its Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Accounts payable and total liabilities of the discontinued operation have also been revised in Note 3, “Discontinued Operations” below.
GENEWIZ was acquired during the three months ended December 31, 2018 and therefore the misclassification did not impact any other historical periods.
Foreign exchange contract assets and liabilities are measured and reported at fair value based on observable market inputs and classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy described below due to a lack of an active market for these contracts.
As of June 30, 2019, the Company had no assets or liabilities measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis using Level 3 inputs.
ASU 2019-05 amends ASU 2016-13 to allow companies to irrevocably elect, upon adoption of ASU 2016-13, the fair value option on financial instruments that were previously recorded at amortized cost and are within the scope of ASC 326-20 if the instruments are eligible for the fair value option under ASC 825-10.
Entities are required to make this election on an instrument-by-instrument basis.
ASU 2019-05’s amendments should be applied “on a modified-retrospective basis by means of a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the statement of financial position as of the date that an entity adopted the amendments in ASU 2016-13.” Certain disclosures are required.


item2.txt
This section discusses accounting policies and estimates that require us to exercise subjective or complex judgments in their application.
This section provides an analysis of our financial results for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019 compared to the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018.
You should read the MD&A in conjunction with our unaudited consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Unless the context indicates otherwise, references in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to "we", "us", "our" and "the Company" refer to Brooks Automation, Inc. and its subsidiaries.
In the life sciences sample-based services market, we utilize our core competencies and capabilities in automation and cryogenics to provide comprehensive bio-sample management solutions to a broad range of end markets within the life sciences industry.
Over the past several years, we have acquired and developed essential capabilities required to strategically address the sample management needs across multiple end markets within the life sciences industry.
In April 2018, we acquired BioSpeciMan Corporation, a Canadian provider of storage services for biological sample materials.
The acquisition has expanded customer relationships and geographic reach within our growing sample management storage services business.
GENEWIZ is a global leader in genomics services that enable research scientists to advance their discoveries within the pharmaceutical, academic, biotechnology, agriculture and other markets.


item3.txt
During the nine months ended June 30, 2019, we incurred cash interest expense of $20.0 million on the term loans.


item4.txt



part2.txt



