fls.txt
You should read the MD&A in conjunction with our unaudited consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.


item1.txt
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
The unaudited consolidated financial statements of Brooks Automation, Inc. and its subsidiaries (“Brooks”, or the “Company”) included herein have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP").
All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The Company determined that the cryogenics business met the “held for sale” criteria and the “discontinued operations” criteria in accordance with Financial Accounting Standard Boards (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 205, Presentation of Financial Statements, (“FASB ASC 205”) as of September 30, 2018.
Please refer to Note 3, “Discontinued Operations” for further information.
GENEWIZ was acquired during the three months ended December 31, 2018 and therefore the misclassifiation did not impact any other historical periods.
Foreign exchange contract assets and liabilities are measured and reported at fair value based on observable market inputs and classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy described below due to a lack of an active market for these contracts.
As of March 31, 2019, the Company had no assets or liabilities measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis using Level 3 inputs.
In March 2019, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU 2019-01 “Leases (Topic 842) - Codification Improvements”, which makes targeted changes to lessor accounting and clarifies interim transition disclosure requirements.
The ASU clarifies that companies are exempt from making the interim period transition disclosures required by ASC 250, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections, for the period in which a change in accounting principle is made as a result of adopting ASC 842.
This interim period disclosure exemption is consistent with ASC 842, which already allowed companies to exclude the annual effect of the accounting change on income from continuing operations, net income and per-share amounts for periods post-adoption.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-14, Disclosure Framework — Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Defined Benefit Plans, which amends ASC 715 to add, remove, and clarify disclosure requirements related to defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments—Credit Losses (Topic 326), which amends ASC 326 to add, remove, and clarify disclosure requirements related to credit losses of financial instruments.
The new guidance introduces a new "expected loss" impairment model which applies to most financial assets measured at amortized cost and certain other instruments, including trade and other receivables, loans, held-to-maturity debt securities and other financial assets.


item2.txt
This section discusses accounting policies and estimates that require us to exercise subjective or complex judgments in their application.
This section provides an analysis of our financial results for the three and six months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three and six months ended March 31, 2018.
You should read the MD&A in conjunction with our unaudited consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Such factors include the Risk Factors which are set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018, or the 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K and which are incorporated herein by reference.
Unless the context indicates otherwise, references in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q to "we", "us", "our" and "the Company" refer to Brooks Automation, Inc. and its subsidiaries.
In the life sciences sample-based services market, we utilize our core competencies and capabilities in automation and cryogenics to provide comprehensive bio-sample management solutions to a broad range of end markets within the life sciences industry.
Over the past several years, we have acquired and developed essential capabilities required to strategically address the sample management needs across multiple end markets within the life sciences industry.
In April 2018, we acquired BioSpeciMan Corporation, or BioSpeciMan, a Canadian provider of storage services for biological sample materials.
The acquisition has expanded customer relationships and geographic reach within our growing sample management storage services business.


item3.txt
At March 31, 2019, the outstanding term loans principal balance was $543.5 million, net of unamortized deferred financing costs of $6.1 million.


item4.txt



part2.txt



