fls.txt



item1.txt
The interim financial data as of June 30, 2019, and for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 are unaudited; however, in the opinion of MKS, the interim data includes all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair statement of the results for the interim periods.
The condensed consolidated balance sheet presented as of December 31, 2018 has been derived from the consolidated audited financial statements as of that date.
2018-16,  “Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815).” This standard permits the use of the Overnight Index Swap Rate (“OIS”) based on the Secured Overnight Financing Rate as a U.S. benchmark interest rate for hedge accounting purposes under Topic 815 in addition to the interest rates on direct treasury obligations of the U.S. government, the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) swap rate, the OIS rate based on the Federal Funds Effective Rate and the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association Municipal Swap Rate.
The Company adopted this ASU during the first quarter of 2019 and the adoption of this ASU did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
The Company is currently evaluating the requirements of this ASU and adoption could have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
The Company adopted this ASU during the first quarter of 2019 and the adoption of this ASU did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
This standard requires the recognition of lease assets and liabilities for all leases, with certain exceptions, on the balance sheet.
The Company also elected to adopt the package of practical expedients upon transition, which permits companies to not reassess lease identification, classification, and initial direct costs for leases that commenced prior to the effective date.
The Company has lease arrangements with lease and non-lease components, has elected to account for the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component, and has allocated all of the contract consideration to the lease component only.
The Company has existing net leases in which the non-lease components (e.g. are paid separately from rent based on actual costs incurred.
Such payments primarily include common area maintenance charges and increases in rent payments that are driven by factors such as future changes in an index (e.g., the Consumer Price Index).
Accordingly, those investments with contractual maturities greater than one year from the date of purchase are classified as short-term on the accompanying balance sheets.
Active markets are those in which transactions for the asset or liability occur in sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis.
Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
Level 2 assets and liabilities include debt securities with quoted prices that are traded less frequently than exchange-traded instruments or securities or derivative contracts that are valued using a pricing model with inputs that are observable in the market or can be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data.
Level 3 assets and liabilities include financial instruments whose value is determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques, as well as instruments for which the determination of fair value requires significant management judgment or estimation.
In certain cases, the inputs used to measure fair value may fall into different levels of the fair value hierarchy.


item2.txt
10-Q contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
We are a global provider of instruments, subsystems and process control solutions that measure, monitor, deliver, analyze, power and control critical parameters of advanced manufacturing processes to improve process performance and productivity for our customers.
Acquisition of Electro Scientific Industries, Inc. On February 1, 2019, we completed our acquisition of Electro Scientific Industries, Inc. (“ESI”) pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of October 29, 2018 (the “ESI Merger”).
At the effective time of the ESI Merger and pursuant to the terms and conditions of the merger agreement, each share of ESI’s common stock that was issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the ESI Merger was converted into the right to receive $30.00 in cash, without interest and subject to deduction of any required withholding tax.
We paid the former ESI stockholders aggregate consideration of approximately $1.033 billion, excluding related transaction fees and expenses, and non-cash consideration related to the exchange of share-based awards of approximately $31 million for a total purchase consideration of approximately $1.063 billion.
We funded the payment of the aggregate consideration with a combination of our available cash on hand and the proceeds from our senior secured term loan facility as described below.
Approximately 46% and 58% of our net revenues for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, were from sales to semiconductor capital equipment manufacturers and semiconductor device manufacturers.
For the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, international net revenues accounted for approximately 53% and 50% of our total net revenues.
Long-lived assets located in the United States were $175.9 million and $146.7 million, as of June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively, excluding goodwill and intangibles, and long-term Long-lived assets located outside of the United States were $90.6 million and $77.4 million, as of June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively, excluding goodwill and intangibles, and long-term 2016-02”), to enhance the transparency and comparability of financial reporting related to leasing arrangements.
In calculating the present value of future lease payments, we utilize our incremental borrowing rates, which are the rates incurred to borrow on a collateralized basis over a similar term an amount equal to the lease payments in a similar economic environment.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
A-16-734039-B, were filed in the District Court, Clark County, Nevada on behalf of a putative class of stockholders of Newport Corporation (“Newport”) for claims related to the merger agreement (“Newport Merger Agreement”) between the Company, Newport, and a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (“Merger Sub”).
The lawsuits named as defendants the Company, Newport, Merger Sub, and certain then current and former members of Newport’s board of directors.


