Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 
Interest Rate Risk  
The interest rates under our 2018 Credit Agreement are based upon an adjusted LIBOR rate plus an applicable margin, or an alternate base rate plus an applicable margin. See Note 4 to our Financial Statements for further details of our long-term debt.  
Market Risk 
Cash Equivalents and Short-term Investments. Our cash and cash equivalents as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 were $123.6 million and $139.3 million, respectively. Certain of our cash balances are “swept” into overnight money market accounts on a daily basis, and at times, any excess funds are invested in low-risk, somewhat longer term, cash equivalent instruments and short-term investments. Our cash equivalents are invested primarily in institutional money market funds, commercial paper, and time deposits held at major banks. We have minimal market risk for our cash and cash equivalents due to the relatively short maturities of the instruments.  
Settlement Assets. We are exposed to market risk associated with cash held on behalf of our clients related to our payment processing services. As of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, we had $87.9 million and $124.6 million, respectively, of cash collected on behalf of our clients which is held for an established holding period until settlement with the client. The holding period is generally one to four business days depending on the payment model and contractual terms with the client. During the holding period, cash is held in trust accounts with various major financial institutions in the U.S. in an amount equal to at least 100% of the aggregate amount owed to our clients.  
Long-Term Debt. The fair value of our convertible debt is exposed to market risk. We do not carry our convertible debt at fair value but present the fair value for disclosure purposes (see Note 2 to our Financial Statements). Generally, the fair value of our convertible debt is impacted by changes in interest rates and changes in the price and volatility of our common stock. As of March 31, 2019, the fair value of the 2016 Convertible Notes was estimated at $242.4 million, using quoted market prices.  
Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk  
Due to foreign operations around the world, our balance sheet and income statement are exposed to foreign currency exchange risk due to the fluctuations in the value of currencies in which we conduct business. While we attempt to maximize natural hedges by incurring expenses in the same currency in which we contract revenue, the related expenses for that revenue could be in one or more differing currencies than the revenue stream.  
Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities  
