fls.txt



item1.txt
Results for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of those to be expected for the full year.
On September 2, 2014, Simulations Plus, Inc. acquired all of the outstanding equity interests of Cognigen Corporation (“Cognigen”, “Buffalo”) and Cognigen became a wholly owned subsidiary of Simulations Plus, Inc. Simulations Plus, Inc., acquired DILIsym Services, Inc. (DILIsym) as a wholly owned subsidiary pursuant to a stock purchase agreement dated May 1, 2017.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Simulations Plus, Inc. and, as of September 2, 2014, its wholly owned subsidiary, Cognigen Corporation, and as of June 1, 2017, the accounts of DILIsym Services, Inc. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated in consolidation.
Significant accounting policies for us include revenue recognition, accounting for capitalized computer software development costs, valuation of stock options, and accounting for income taxes.
The standard provides principles for recognizing revenue for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers with the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
This approach was applied to contracts that were in process as of September 1, 2018, and the corresponding incremental costs of obtaining those contracts, which resulted in a cumulative effect adjustment of $692,944 to the opening balance of retained earnings at the date of adoption.
We generate revenue primarily from the sale of software licenses and providing consulting services to the pharmaceutical industry for drug development.
Sales commissions for new contracts are deferred and then amortized on a straight-line basis over a period of benefit.
Most of our contracts are of a duration of one year or less, few, if any of the longer-term contracts have commissions associated with them.
The Company applied the practical expedient to not disclose the amount of transaction price allocated to unsatisfied performance obligations when the performance obligation is part of a contract that has an original expected duration of one year or less.
For purposes of the statements of cash flows, the Company considers all highly liquid investments purchased with original maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents.
Amortization of capitalized software development costs is calculated on a product-by-product basis using the straight-line method over the estimated economic life of the products (not to exceed five years).
Amortization of software development costs amounted to $322,552 and $331,862 for the three months ended May 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $1,006,339 and $952,894 for the nine months ended May 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives using the straight-line method, which approximates the pattern in which the majority of the economic benefits are expected to be consumed.


item2.txt
Item 2.
The forward-looking statements contained or incorporated by reference in this document are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (“Securities Act”) and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”) and are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
We are a global leader focused on improving the ways scientists use knowledge and data to predict the properties and outcomes of pharmaceutical and biotechnology agents, and are one of only two global companies who provide a wide range of early discovery, preclinical, and clinical consulting services and software.
Our innovations in integrating new and existing science in medicinal chemistry, computational chemistry, pharmaceutical science, biology, physiology, and machine learning into our software have made us the leading software provider for PBPK modeling and simulation, prediction of molecular properties from structure, and prediction of drugs to induce liver injury or to treat nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.
Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies use our software programs and scientific consulting services to guide early drug discovery (molecule design and screening), preclinical, and clinical development programs.
Through the integration of Cognigen into Simulations Plus, Simulations Plus became also a leading provider of population modeling and simulation contract research services for the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries.
We have also developed software for harnessing cloud-based computing in support of modeling and simulation activities and secure data archiving, and we provide consulting services to improve interdisciplinary collaborations and research and development productivity.
Simulation Plus also acquired DILIsym Services, Inc. (DILIsym) as a wholly owned subsidiary.
Both the DILIsym and NAFLDsym software programs require outputs from physiologically based pharmacokinetics (PBPK) software as inputs.
Because we are outside of the European Union, our participation in this project was at our own expense, while other members were compensated for their work; however, we were a full member with access to all of the data and discussions of all other members.
We believe our investment to participate in this initiative enabled us to benefit from, and to contribute to, advancing the prediction of human oral bioavailability from preclinical data, and ensured that we are well-known to member pharmaceutical companies and regulatory agencies.
After a successful second year, the RCA was extended for two additional years in September 2016, with primary tasks completed in September 2018.
Additional functionality was further requested by the FDA, and a new funded contract was awarded for the 2018-19 period.
In September 2018, we were pleased to announce that we were awarded another funded RCA by the FDA to integrate drug product quality attributes into the mechanistic TCAT model in GastroPlus.


item3.txt
As of May 31, 2019 and August 31, 2018, we had cash and cash equivalents of $10.31 million and $9.40 million, respectively.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1.


