Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations



The following management’s discussion and analysis is provided in addition to the accompanying consolidated condensed financial statements and notes, and for a full understanding of Applied’s results of operations and financial condition should be read in conjunction with the consolidated condensed financial statements and notes included in this Form 10-Q and the financial statements and notes for the fiscal year ended October 28, 2018 contained in the Company’s Form 10-K filed December 13, 2018.



This report contains forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Examples of forward-looking statements include those regarding Applied’s future financial or operating results, customer demand and spending, end-use demand, market and industry trends and outlooks, cash flows and cash deployment strategies, declaration of dividends, share repurchases, business strategies and priorities, costs and cost controls, products, competitive positions, management’s plans and objectives for future operations, research and development, strategic acquisitions and investments, including the proposed acquisition of Kokusai Electric Corporation (Kokusai Electric), growth opportunities, restructuring activities, backlog, working capital, liquidity, investment portfolio and policies, taxes, supply chain, manufacturing, properties, legal proceedings and claims, and other statements that are not historical facts, as well as their underlying assumptions. Forward-looking statements may contain words such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “would,” “expect,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “intend,” “potential” and “continue,” the negative of these terms, or other comparable terminology. All forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and other important factors, including those discussed in Part II, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” below and elsewhere in this report. These and many other factors could affect Applied’s future financial condition and operating results and could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations based on forward-looking statements made in this document or elsewhere by Applied or on its behalf. Forward-looking statements are based on management’s estimates, projections and expectations as of the date hereof, and Applied undertakes no obligation to revise or update any such statements.



Overview



Applied provides manufacturing equipment, services and software to the semiconductor, display, and related industries. Applied’s customers include manufacturers of semiconductor wafers and chips, liquid crystal and organic light-emitting diode (OLED) displays, and other electronic devices. These customers may use what they manufacture in their own end products or sell the items to other companies for use in advanced electronic components. Each of Applied’s businesses is subject to variable industry conditions, as demand for manufacturing equipment and services can change depending on supply and demand for chips, display technologies, and other electronic devices, as well as other factors, such as global economic and market conditions, and the nature and timing of technological advances in fabrication processes.





Applied’s results are driven primarily by customer spending on capital equipment and services to support key technology transitions or to increase production volume in response to worldwide demand for semiconductors and displays. While certain existing technologies may be adapted to new requirements, some applications create the need for an entirely different technological approach. The timing of customer investment in manufacturing equipment is also affected by the timing of next-generation process development, and the timing of capacity expansion to meet end-market demand. In light of these conditions, Applied’s results can vary significantly year-over-year, as well as quarter-over-quarter.







Fiscal 2019 and 2018 contain 52 weeks each, and the first nine months of fiscal 2019 and 2018 each contained 39 weeks.



Investment in semiconductor and display manufacturing equipment and services continued to be the main driver of revenue during the first nine months of fiscal 2019. 



Semiconductor and display manufacturing equipment customers’ investments in new capacity and technology transitions decreased compared to the same period in the prior year. Applied continued to see growth in demand for services and continued demand for spares from customers as compared to the same period in the prior year.



While Applied anticipates major technology trends to drive long-term growth in the semiconductor industry, the softening in demand that began during the second half of 2018 is expected to continue through 2019, led primarily by lower spending from memory customers. Foundry and logic spending is expected to increase year-on-year; however, customers are prioritizing spending on longer lead-time equipment not in Applied’s product portfolio. Applied expects lower spending for display manufacturing equipment in fiscal 2019, although long-term demand drivers remain in place. Applied anticipates its global services business to continue to grow in fiscal 2019.



The three and nine months ended July 29, 2018 included a one-time expense related to the enactment of new U.S. tax legislation that reduced diluted earnings per share by $0.01 and $1.05, respectively.



 Applied adopted the authoritative guidance related to revenue recognition in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 using the full retrospective method. Applied also adopted authoritative guidance related to retirement benefits in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 using the retrospective method. The adoption of these guidance required restating each prior reporting period presented. 



Results of Operations



Net Sales







For the three and nine months ended July 28, 2019 compared to the same periods in the prior year, net sales decreased primarily due to decreased customer investments in semiconductor and display manufacturing equipment. The Semiconductor Systems segment continued to represent the largest contributor of total net sales.







The changes in net sales in all regions in the three and nine months ended July 28, 2019 compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily reflected changes in semiconductor and display manufacturing equipment spending and customer and product mix. The increase in net sales to customers in Taiwan and United States for the three and nine months ended July 28, 2019 compared to the same periods in the prior year was primarily due to increased investments in semiconductor manufacturing equipment. The decrease in net sales to customers in all other regions for the three and nine months ended July 28, 2019 compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily reflected a decrease in investments in semiconductor and display manufacturing equipment.



Gross Margin







Gross margin in the three and nine months ended July 28, 2019 decreased compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily due to the decrease in net sales and unfavorable changes in customer and product mix. Gross margin during the three months ended July 28, 2019 and July 29, 2018 included $23 million and $22 million of share-based compensation expense, respectively. Gross margin during the nine months ended July 28, 2019 and July 29, 2018 included $67 million and $65 million of share-based compensation expense, respectively. 



Research, Development and Engineering







Applied’s future operating results depend to a considerable extent on its ability to maintain a competitive advantage in the equipment and service products it provides. Development cycles range from 12 to 36 months depending on whether the product is an enhancement of an existing product, which typically has a shorter development cycle, or a new product, which typically has a longer development cycle. Most of Applied’s existing products resulted from internal development activities and innovations involving new technologies, materials and processes. In certain instances, Applied acquires technologies, either in existing or new product areas, to complement its existing technology capabilities and to reduce time to market. 







Marketing and Selling







Marketing and selling expenses decreased slightly in the three and nine months ended July 28, 2019 compared to the same periods in fiscal 2018 primarily due to lower variable compensation expenses. Marketing and selling expenses during the three months ended July 28, 2019 and July 29, 2018 included $8 million and $7 million of share-based compensation expense, respectively. Marketing and selling expenses during the nine months ended July 28, 2019 and July 29, 2018 each included $23 million of share-based compensation expense.



General and Administrative









Interest Expense and Interest and Other Income (Loss), net







Interest expenses incurred were primarily associated with issued senior unsecured notes. Interest expense in the three and nine months ended July 28, 2019 remained relatively flat compared to the same periods in the prior year.





Income Taxes







Applied’s provision for income taxes and effective tax rate are affected by the geographical composition of pre-tax income which includes jurisdictions with differing tax rates, conditional reduced tax rates and other income tax incentives. It is also affected by events that are not consistent from period to period, such as changes in income tax laws and the resolution of prior years’ income tax filings.



On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Act). The Tax Act requires a one-time transition tax on certain unrepatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries payable over eight years. U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities were subject to remeasurement due to the reduction of the U.S. federal corporate tax rate. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, which provided guidance on accounting for the income tax effects of the Tax Act and a measurement period for companies to complete this accounting. Applied completed the accounting for the Tax Act during the measurement period, which ended one year after the enactment date of the Tax Act. Accounting for the remeasurement of deferred tax assets was completed in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, and the accounting for the transition tax was completed in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.



The Tax Act also includes provisions that impact Applied starting in fiscal 2019, including a provision designed to tax global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI). On June 14, 2019, the U.S. government released regulations that significantly affect how the GILTI provision of the Tax Act is interpreted. As a result, Applied reversed a tax benefit of $96 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 that had been realized in the first half of fiscal 2019. An accounting policy choice is allowed to treat GILTI temporary differences in taxable income either as a current-period expense when incurred (period cost method) or factor such amounts into the measurement of deferred taxes (deferred method). Applied has chosen the period cost method.



Applied’s effective tax rates for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 and 2018 were 27.0 percent and 5.7 percent, respectively. The effective tax rate for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was higher than the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to the regulations released on June 14, 2019.



Applied’s effective tax rates for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 and 2018 were 17.3 percent and 35.2 percent, respectively. The effective tax rate was lower than the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to tax expense of $1.1 billion in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 for the transition tax and remeasurement of deferred tax assets as a result of the Tax Act. Excluding the tax expense of $1.1 billion, the effective tax rate for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 was higher than the rate in the same period of the prior fiscal year primarily due to certain provisions in the Tax Act becoming effective in fiscal 2019, $79 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 related to changes in uncertain tax positions and the excess tax benefit from share-based compensation in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 being $42 million less than in the same period in the prior fiscal year.



Segment Information







The results for each reportable segment are discussed below.



Semiconductor Systems Segment



The Semiconductor Systems segment is comprised primarily of capital equipment used to fabricate semiconductor chips. Semiconductor industry spending on capital equipment is driven by demand for advanced electronic products, including smartphones and other mobile devices, servers, personal computers, automotive devices, storage, and other products, and the nature and timing of technological advances in fabrication processes, and as a result is subject to variable industry conditions. Development efforts are focused on solving customers’ key technical challenges in transistor, interconnect, patterning and packaging performance as devices scale to advanced technology nodes. 



Semiconductor manufacturing equipment customers made investments in new capacity and technology transitions, although overall spending decreased compared to the same periods in the prior year. Applied continues to see customers optimize existing capacity and focus their capital spending plans on longer lead-time equipment not in Applied’s product portfolio.













The following region accounted for at least 30 percent of total net sales for the Semiconductor Systems segment for one or more of the periods presented.





Applied Global Services Segment



The Applied Global Services segment provides integrated solutions to optimize equipment and fab performance and productivity, including spares, upgrades, services, certain remanufactured earlier generation equipment and factory automation software for semiconductor, display and solar products.



Demand for Applied Global Services’ service solutions are driven by Applied’s large and growing installed base of manufacturing systems, and customers’ needs to shorten ramp times, improve device performance and yield, and optimize factory output and operating costs. Industry conditions that affect Applied Global Services’ sales of spares and services are primarily characterized by increases in semiconductor manufacturers’ wafer starts and continued strong utilization rates, growth of the installed base of equipment, growing service intensity of newer tools, and the Company’s ability to sell more comprehensive service agreements.







Net sales for the three months ended July 28, 2019 decreased compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to lower customer spending on semiconductor spares, partially offset by higher customer spending for comprehensive service agreements. Net sales for the nine months ended July 28, 2019 increased compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to higher customer spending for comprehensive service agreements and legacy systems, partially offset by lower customer spending on semiconductor spares. Operating income and operating margin for the three months ended July 28, 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year decreased due to lower net sales and higher expenses related to an increase in headcount. Operating income for the nine months ended July 28, 2019 increased compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to higher net sales, partially offset by higher expenses related to an increase in headcount. Operating margin for the nine months ended July 28, 2019 decreased slightly compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to an increase in headcount to support revenue growth. In the three months ended July 28, 2019, two customers each accounted for more than 10 percent of this segment’s total net sales.



There was no region that accounted for at least 30 percent of total net sales for the Applied Global Services segment for any of the periods presented.



Display and Adjacent Markets Segment



The Display and Adjacent Markets segment encompasses products for manufacturing liquid crystal and OLED displays, and other display technologies for TVs, monitors, laptops, personal computers, electronic tablets, smart phones, and other consumer-oriented devices, equipment upgrades and flexible coating systems. The segment is focused on expanding its presence through technologically-differentiated equipment for manufacturing large-scale LCD TVs, OLEDs, low temperature polysilicon (LTPS), metal oxide, and touch panel sectors; and development of products that provide customers with improved performance and yields. Display industry growth depends primarily on consumer demand for increasingly larger and more advanced TVs as well as larger and higher resolution displays for next generation mobile devices.



The market environment for Applied’s Display and Adjacent Markets segment was characterized by weak demand for manufacturing equipment for mobile products and TVs, compared to the same periods in the prior year. In addition, uneven spending patterns by customers in the Display and Adjacent Markets segment can cause significant fluctuations quarter-over-quarter, as well as year-over-year.







Net sales for the three and nine months ended July 28, 2019 decreased compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily due to lower customer investments in mobile and TV display manufacturing equipment. Operating income and operating margin for the three and nine months ended July 28, 2019 decreased compared to the same periods in the prior year, reflecting lower net sales and unfavorable changes in customer and product mix. In the three months ended July 28, 2019, three customers each accounted for at least 10 percent of this segment’s net sales, and together they accounted for approximately 86 percent of this segment’s total net sales.







Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources







Sources and Uses of Cash







Operating Activities



Cash from operating activities for the nine months ended July 28, 2019 was $2.4 billion, which reflects net income adjusted for the effect of non-cash charges and changes in working capital components. Non-cash charges included depreciation, amortization, share-based compensation and deferred income taxes. Cash provided by operating activities decreased in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to lower cash collections and higher payments to suppliers and for income taxes, offset by a lower change in inventory during the nine months ended July 28, 2019, compared to the same period in the prior year. 



Applied has agreements with various financial institutions to sell accounts receivable and discount promissory notes from selected customers. Applied sells its accounts receivable without recourse. Applied, from time to time, also discounts letters of credit issued by customers through various financial institutions. The discounting of letters of credit depends on many factors, including the willingness of financial institutions to discount the letters of credit and the cost of such arrangements. Applied sold $1.3 billion and $1.0 billion of accounts receivable during the nine months ended July 28, 2019 and July 29, 2018, respectively. Applied discounted letters of credit issued by customers of $40 million during the nine months ended July 28, 2019. Applied did not discount letters of credit issued by customers or discount promissory notes during the nine months ended July 29, 2018.



Applied’s working capital was $6.3 billion as of July 28, 2019 and $6.7 billion as of October 28, 2018. 



Days sales outstanding for the three months ended July 28, 2019 was 61 days, an increase compared to 59 days sales outstanding for the same period in the prior year. Days sales outstanding varies due to the timing of shipments and payment terms, and the increase was primarily due to higher revenue and favorable collection performance for the same period in the prior year. 



Investing Activities



Applied used $357 million of cash in investing activities during the nine months ended July 28, 2019. Capital expenditures totaled $344 million and were partially offset by the proceeds from sales and maturities of investments, net of purchases of investments of $15 million during the nine months ended July 28, 2019.



Applied’s investment portfolio consists principally of investment grade money market mutual funds, U.S. Treasury and agency securities, municipal bonds, corporate bonds and mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, as well as equity securities. Applied regularly monitors the credit risk in its investment portfolio and takes appropriate measures, which may include the sale of certain securities, to manage such risks prudently in accordance with its investment policies. 



Financing Activities



Applied used $2.5 billion of cash in financing activities during the nine months ended July 28, 2019, consisting primarily of repurchases of common stock of $1.9 billion, cash dividends to stockholders of $577 million and tax withholding payments for vested equity awards of $83 million.



In June 2019, March 2019 and December 2018, Applied’s Board of Directors declared quarterly cash dividends in the amount of $0.21, $0.21 and $0.20 per share, respectively. The dividend declared in June 2019 is payable in September 2019. Applied currently anticipates that cash dividends will continue to be paid on a quarterly basis, although the declaration of any future cash dividend is at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend on Applied’s financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, business conditions and other factors, as well as a determination by the Board of Directors that cash dividends are in the best interests of Applied’s stockholders.



Applied has credit facilities for unsecured borrowings in various currencies of up to $1.6 billion, of which $1.5 billion is comprised of a committed revolving credit agreement with a group of banks that is scheduled to expire in September 2021. This agreement provides for borrowings in United States dollars at interest rates keyed to one of the two rates selected by Applied for each advance and includes financial and other covenants with which Applied was in compliance as of July 28, 2019. Remaining credit facilities in the amount of approximately $74 million are with Japanese banks. Applied’s ability to borrow under these facilities is subject to bank approval at the time of the borrowing request, and any advances will be at rates indexed to the banks’ prime reference rate denominated in Japanese yen. Applied has not utilized these credit facilities and no amounts were outstanding under any of these facilities as of both July 28, 2019 and October 28, 2018. 



Subsequent to the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2019, Applied entered into a term loan credit agreement with a group of lenders. Under the agreement, the lenders have committed to make an unsecured term loan to Applied of up to $2.0 billion to finance in part Applied’s planned acquisition of all outstanding shares of Kokusai Electric, to pay related transaction fees and expenses and for general corporate purposes. The commitments of the lenders to make the term loan will terminate if the transactions contemplated by the Share Purchase Agreement (SPA) are not consummated on or before June 30, 2020, which date may be extended by three months on two separate occasions if, on the applicable date, the only remaining conditions to closing relate to required regulatory approvals. The term loan, if advanced, will bear interest at one of two rates selected by Applied, plus an applicable margin, which varies according to Applied’s public debt credit ratings, and must be repaid in full on the third anniversary of the funding date of the term loan.



In fiscal 2011, Applied established a short-term commercial paper program of up to $1.5 billion. As of July 28, 2019, Applied did not have any commercial paper outstanding but may issue commercial paper notes under this program from time to time in the future.



In the ordinary course of business, Applied provides standby letters of credit or other guarantee instruments to third parties as required for certain transactions initiated by either Applied or its subsidiaries. As of July 28, 2019, the maximum potential amount of future payments that Applied could be required to make under these guarantee agreements was approximately $74 million. Applied has not recorded any liability in connection with these guarantee agreements beyond that required to appropriately account for the underlying transaction being guaranteed. Applied does not believe, based on historical experience and information currently available, that it is probable that any amounts will be required to be paid under these guarantee agreements.



Applied also has agreements with various banks to facilitate subsidiary banking operations worldwide, including overdraft arrangements, issuance of bank guarantees, and letters of credit. As of July 28, 2019, Applied has provided parent guarantees to banks for approximately $151 million to cover these arrangements.



Others



On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. The Tax Act requires a one-time transition tax on certain unrepatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries. The transition tax expense is payable in installments over eight years, with eight percent due in each of the first five years starting with fiscal 2018. As of July 28, 2019, Applied has $961 million of total payments remaining, payable in installments in the next seven years. Before the Tax Act, U.S. income tax had not been provided for certain unrepatriated earnings that were considered indefinitely reinvested. Income tax is now provided for all unrepatriated earnings.



Although cash requirements will fluctuate based on the timing and extent of factors such as those discussed above, Applied’s management believes that cash generated from operations, together with the liquidity provided by existing cash balances and borrowing capability, will be sufficient to satisfy Applied’s liquidity requirements for the next 12 months. For further details regarding Applied’s operating, investing and financing activities, see the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Cash Flows in this report.



Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates



The preparation of consolidated financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported. Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Applied’s Annual Report on Form 10-K and Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in this report describe the significant accounting policies used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. Certain of these significant accounting policies are considered to be critical accounting policies.





Estimates and assumptions about future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty. Applied bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions believed to be applicable and reasonable under the circumstances. These estimates may change as new events occur, as additional information is obtained and as Applied’s operating environment changes. These changes have historically been minor and have been included in the consolidated financial statements as soon as they became known. In addition, management is periodically faced with uncertainties, the outcomes of which are not within its control and will not be known for prolonged periods of time. These uncertainties include those discussed in Part II, Item 1A, “Risk Factors.” Based on a critical assessment of its accounting policies and the underlying judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of those policies, management believes that Applied’s consolidated financial statements are fairly stated in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, and provide a meaningful presentation of Applied’s financial condition and results of operations.





Revenue Recognition





Warranty Costs



Applied provides for the estimated cost of warranty when revenue is recognized. Estimated warranty costs are determined by analyzing specific product, current and historical configuration statistics and regional warranty support costs. Applied’s warranty obligation is affected by product and component failure rates, material usage and labor costs incurred in correcting product failures during the warranty period. As Applied’s customer engineers and process support engineers are highly trained and deployed globally, labor availability is a significant factor in determining labor costs. The quantity and availability of critical replacement parts is another significant factor in estimating warranty costs. Unforeseen component failures or exceptional component performance can also result in changes to warranty costs. If actual warranty costs differ substantially from Applied’s estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be required, which could have a material adverse effect on Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations.



Allowance for Doubtful Accounts



Applied maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments. This allowance is based on historical experience, credit evaluations, specific customer collection history and any customer-specific issues Applied has identified. Changes in circumstances, such as an unexpected material adverse change in a major customer’s ability to meet its financial obligation to Applied or its payment trends, may require Applied to further adjust its estimates of the recoverability of amounts due to Applied, which could have a material adverse effect on Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations.



Inventory Valuation



Inventories are generally stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value, with cost determined on a first-in, first-out basis. The carrying value of inventory is reduced for estimated obsolescence by the difference between its cost and the estimated net realizable value based upon assumptions about future demand. Applied evaluates the inventory carrying value for potential excess and obsolete inventory exposures by analyzing historical and anticipated demand. In addition, inventories are evaluated for potential obsolescence due to the effect of known and anticipated engineering change orders and new products. If actual demand were to be substantially lower than estimated, additional adjustments for excess or obsolete inventory may be required, which could have a material adverse effect on Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations.



Goodwill and Intangible Assets



Applied reviews goodwill and intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable, and also annually reviews goodwill and intangibles with indefinite lives for impairment. Intangible assets, such as purchased technology, are generally recorded in connection with a business acquisition. The value assigned to intangible assets is usually based on estimates and judgments regarding expectations for the success and life cycle of products and technology acquired. If actual product acceptance differs significantly from the estimates, Applied may be required to record an impairment charge to reduce the carrying value of the reporting unit to its estimated fair value. 



To test goodwill for impairment, Applied first performs a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. If it is concluded that this is the case, Applied then performs the two-step goodwill impairment test. Otherwise, the two-step goodwill impairment test is not required. Under the two-step goodwill impairment test, Applied would in the first step compare the estimated fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, Applied would then perform the second step of the impairment test in order to determine the implied fair value of the reporting unit’s goodwill. If Applied determines that the carrying value of a reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, Applied would record an impairment charge equal to the difference.



Applied determines the fair value of each reporting unit based on a weighting of an income and a market approach. Applied bases the fair value estimates on assumptions that it believes to be reasonable but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Under the income approach, Applied estimates the fair value based on discounted cash flow method.



The estimates used in the impairment testing are consistent with the discrete forecasts that Applied uses to manage its business, and considers any significant developments during the period. Under the discounted cash flow method, cash flows beyond the discrete forecasts are estimated using a terminal growth rate, which considers the long-term earnings growth rate specific to the reporting units. The estimated future cash flows are discounted to present value using each reporting unit’s weighted average cost of capital. The weighted average cost of capital measures a reporting unit’s cost of debt and equity financing weighted by the percentage of debt and equity in a reporting unit’s target capital structure. In addition, the weighted average cost of capital is derived using both known and estimated market metrics, and is adjusted to reflect both the timing and risks associated with the estimated cash flows. The tax rate used in the discounted cash flow method is the median tax rate of comparable companies and reflects Applied’s current international structure, which is consistent with the market participant perspective. Under the market approach, Applied uses the guideline company method which applies market multiples to forecasted revenues and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. Applied uses market multiples that are consistent with comparable publicly-traded companies and considers each reporting unit’s size, growth and profitability relative to its comparable companies. 



Management uses significant judgment when assessing goodwill for potential impairment, especially in emerging markets. Indicators of potential impairment include, but are not limited to, challenging economic conditions, an unfavorable industry or economic environment or other severe decline in market conditions. Such conditions could have the effect of changing one of the critical assumptions or estimates used for the fair value calculation, resulting in an unexpected goodwill impairment charge, which could have a material adverse effect on Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations. See Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of goodwill impairment.



Income Taxes



Applied’s provision for income taxes and effective tax rate are affected by the geographical composition of pre-tax income which includes jurisdictions with differing tax rates, conditional reduced tax rates and other income tax incentives. It is also affected by events that are not consistent from period to period, such as changes to income tax laws and the resolution of prior years’ income tax filings. Applied recognizes a current tax liability for the estimated amount of income tax payable on tax returns for the current fiscal year. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax effects of temporary differences between the book and tax bases of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets are also recognized for net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets are offset by a valuation allowance to the extent it is more likely than not that they are not expected to be realized.



Applied recognizes tax benefits from uncertain tax positions only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained upon examination by the taxing authorities based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized from such positions are estimated based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Any changes in judgment related to uncertain tax positions are recognized in Applied’s provision for income taxes in the quarter in which such change occurs. Interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions are recognized in Applied’s provision for income taxes.



The calculation of Applied’s provision for income taxes and effective tax rate involves significant judgment in estimating the impact of uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws. Resolution of these uncertainties in a manner inconsistent with Applied’s expectations could have an adverse material impact on Applied’s results of operations and financial condition.



Non-GAAP Adjusted Financial Results



Management uses non-GAAP adjusted financial measures to evaluate the Company’s operating and financial performance and for planning purposes, and as performance measures in its executive compensation program. Applied believes these measures enhance an overall understanding of its performance and investors’ ability to review the Company’s business from the same perspective as the Company’s management and facilitate comparisons of this period’s results with prior periods on a consistent basis by excluding items that management does not believe are indicative of Applied’s ongoing operating performance. 



The non-GAAP adjusted financial measures presented below are adjusted to exclude the impact of certain costs, expenses, gains and losses, including certain items related to mergers and acquisitions; restructuring charges and any associated adjustments; impairments of assets, or investments; gain or loss on sale of strategic investments; tax effect of share-based compensation; certain income tax items and other discrete adjustments. Additionally, non-GAAP results exclude estimated discrete income tax expense items associated with recent U.S. tax legislation. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP are provided in the financial tables presented below. There are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because the non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies, and may exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.





APPLIED MATERIALS, INC.



UNAUDITED RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP ADJUSTED RESULTS





1 These items are incremental charges attributable to completed acquisitions, consisting of amortization of purchased intangible assets.



2GAAP basis tax benefit related to share-based compensation is being recognized ratably over the fiscal year on a non-GAAP basis.



3Charges to income tax provision related to a one-time transition tax and a decrease in U.S. deferred tax assets as a result of the recent U.S. tax legislation.



4Adjustment to provision for income taxes related to non-GAAP adjustments reflected in income before income taxes.



APPLIED MATERIALS, INC.



UNAUDITED RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP ADJUSTED RESULTS







APPLIED MATERIALS, INC.



UNAUDITED RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP ADJUSTED RESULTS





1 These items are incremental charges attributable to completed acquisitions, consisting of amortization of purchased intangible assets.





Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds



Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities



The following table provides information as of July 28, 2019 with respect to the shares of common stock repurchased by Applied during the third quarter of fiscal 2019 pursuant to a publicly announced stock repurchase program approved by the Board of Directors in February 2018, which authorized up to an aggregate of $6.0 billion in repurchases.





Item 6. Exhibits







†Filed herewith.



‡Furnished herewith.



SIGNATURES



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.











