•Continued to see positive Windows 10 ATM upgrade activity, including an order with a large U.S. regional bank.
•Won a new $42, multi-year contract to take over maintenance services for Diebold Nixdorf ATMs at a leading financial institution in Canada. 
•Partnered with Mastercard® on key technology and services agreements to strengthen the company's connected commerce offerings and further bridge physical and digital transactions.
•Secured a three-year frame agreement for branch automation services and systems with a major French bank.
•Received an outsourcing agreement from Germany's Degussa Bank to manage the cash supply chain for its 220 ATMs through the Diebold Nixdorf AllConnect ServicesSM offering. 
The Company provides Connected Commerce solutions which enable millions of transactions each day. The Company's approximately 23,000 employees service our customer's integrated solutions and design and deliver convenient, "always on" and highly secure solutions that bridge the physical and the digital worlds of transactions. Customers of the Company include nearly all of the world's top 100 financial institutions and a majority of the top 25 global retailers. 
The Company’s new operating structure is primarily focused on its two main industry segments - Banking and Retail. Leveraging a broad portfolio of solutions, the Company offers customers in these industries the flexibility to select the combination of services, software and systems that drive the most value to their business. 
For example, the Company offers end-to-end branch and store automation solutions that consist of the complete value chain of consult, design, build and operate. Branch and store automation helps financial institutions and retailers grow revenue, reduce costs, and increase convenience and security for their customers by migrating routine transactions, typically done inside the branch or store, to lower-cost automated channels. The Company’s advisory services team collaborates with its clients to define the ideal customer experience, modify processes, refine existing staffing models and deploy technologies that meet business objectives.
The Company provides integrated solutions for financial institutions of all sizes - tailored to help drive operational efficiencies, grow revenue and manage risk. Operations are managed within two regions - Eurasia and the Americas. Eurasia includes the developed economies of Western Europe as well as the emerging economies of Eastern Europe, Asia, the Middle East and Africa. The Americas region encompasses the U.S., Canada, Mexico and Latin America. 
For banking services, the Company provides clients with end-to-end solutions with a customer-first, outcome-driven approach. Diebold Nixdorf AllConnect Services is a new breed of as-a-service offering, designed to power the business operations of financial institutions of all sizes. 
Product-related services resolve incidents through remote service capabilities or an on-site visit. The portfolio includes first and second line maintenance, preventive maintenance and on-demand services all the way to total implementation services. The Company leverages a standardized incident management process to increase uptime of distributed assets. 
Managed services and outsourcing consists of managing the end-to-end business processes, technology integration and day-to-day operation of the self-service channel and the bank branch. Our integrated business solutions include self-service fleet management, branch lifecycle management and ATM as-a-service capabilities. 
The Company also provides a full array of cash management services, which optimizes the availability and cost of physical currency across the enterprise through efficient forecasting, inventory and replenishment processes. These offerings enable customers to meet the growing demand for transaction availability at ATMs and other distributed assets in a cost-effective manner. 
From a software perspective, the Company provides financial institutions with front-end applications for consumer connection points as well as back-end platforms that manage channel transactions, operations and integration. These hardware-agnostic software applications facilitate millions of transactions via ATMs, kiosks, and other self-service devices. The Company's platform software is installed within bank data centers to facilitate omnichannel transactions, endpoint monitoring, remote asset management, customer marketing, merchandise management and analytics. 
In 2017, the Company introduced Vynamic, the first end-to-end Connected Commerce software portfolio in the banking marketplace. The Vynamic suite's open API architecture is built to eliminate the traditional focus on internal silos and enable tomorrow's inter-connected partnerships between financial institutions and payment providers. 
An important enabler of the Company’s software offerings is the professional service employees who provide systems integration, customization, consulting and project management. The Company's advisory services team collaborates with its customers to help define optimal user experience, improve business processes, refine existing staffing models and deploy technology to automate both branches and stores.
In the retail business, the Company’s comprehensive portfolio of POS technology, software and retail automation solutions drives efficiencies by accelerating the checkout process and improving convenience for both retailers and consumers. 
•Realization of cost reductions and synergies, which leverage the Company's global scale, reduce overlap and improve operating efficiencies.
Services and software gross margin was relatively flat in the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 1.0% lower in the six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the same periods of the prior year. Both the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 were favorably impacted by lower restructuring charges of $12.9 and $13.9 and lower non-routine charges of $15.7 and $16.2, respectively, primarily related to lower purchase accounting adjustments inclusive of amortization and prior-year quarter deferred revenue. Excluding restructuring and non-routine charges, services and software gross margin decreased in both the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 by 4.0 and 3.0 percent, respectively, as a function of higher non-recurring services and software cost in Brazil banking as well as an unfavorable customer and solutions mix negatively impacting software margin in Eurasia. 
Product gross margin in the three months ended June 30, 2018 decreased 3.1 percent and increased 0.3 percent in the six months ended June 30, 2018. Both the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 were favorably impacted by lower restructuring charges of $1.4 and $1.5, respectively, and the six months ended were favorably impacted by lower non-routine charges of $19.5, primarily related to $14.0 lower Purchase Accounting Adjustments inclusive of amortization and prior-year deferred revenue, and a $3.7 benefit from the Brazil indirect tax accrual reversal in the first quarter of 2018. Excluding restructuring and non-routine charges, product gross margin decreased 3.2 and 1.9 percent in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, primarily in the Americas as a result of an unfavorable customer mix, unfavorable banking product mix, supply chain delays and corresponding expedited freight costs.
Selling and administrative expense in both the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 decreased $17.0 and $36.1, respectively. Excluding lower non-routine charges of $3.7 and higher restructuring of $0.6, the decrease in the three months ended June 30, 2018 was primarily attributable to lower corporate IT and associate related expense as well as cost reduction initiatives across the Company, specifically in the Americas and Eurasia banking segments. Excluding lower non-routine and restructuring charges of $14.3 and $6.5, respectively, the six months ended June 30, 2018 was favorable $15.3 due primarily to lower IT and associate 
related expense as well as cost reduction initiatives in the Banking Eurasia and Americas segments. This decrease was partially offset by the Retail segment, primarily from increased investment in the new North America retail sales organization. Additionally, both the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 were favorably impacted $3.9 and $5.0, respectively, from the mark-to-market adjustment of the legacy Wincor Nixdorf stock option program. The decrease in selling and administrative expense was partially offset by an unfavorable currency impact of $7.3 and $28.5 in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively.
Non-routine cost in selling and administrative expense of $36.1 and $39.8 were included in the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The primary components of the non-routine expenses in the second quarter of 2018 pertained to purchase accounting adjustments of $22.3 related to intangible asset amortization and integration cost totaling $13.3. Selling and administrative expense included restructuring charges of $3.1 and $2.5 in the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Non-routine costs in selling and administrative expense of $74.6 and $88.9 were included in the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The primary components of the non-routine expenses in the six months ended June 30, 2018 pertained to purchase accounting adjustments of $46.1 related to intangible asset amortization and integration cost totaling $27.5. Selling and administrative expense included restructuring charges of $4.4 and $10.9 in the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Research, development and engineering expense in the three months ended June 30, 2018 was flat including an unfavorable currency impact of $1.8. In the six months ended June 30, 2018, research, development and engineering expense included an unfavorable currency impact of $5.8. Excluding the impact of currency, research, development and engineering expense in the six months ended June 30, 2018 decreased primarily from higher capitalization of internally developed software. 
The impairment increased $86.9 to $90.0 during the six months ended June 30, 2018 from $3.1 during the same period in 2017 primarily due to the impairment of goodwill in the second quarter of 2018.
In the three months ended June 30, 2018, the loss on sale of assets was primarily related to a settlement of certain open matters related to an Americas divestiture, partially offset by gains related to the sale of a certain China investment and a building in North America. The gain on sale of assets in the six months ended June 30, 2018 was primarily related to a gain on sale of buildings in North America of $4.8, the liquidation of the Barbados operating entity of $3.3 and gain related to a certain China investment. This gain on sale of assets was partially offset by the loss pertaining to a settlement of certain open matters related to an Americas divestiture in the second quarter of 2018.
Operating expense as a percent of net sales in the three months ended June 30, 2018 remained flat at 23.6 percent. In the six months ended June 30, 2018, operating expense as a percent of net sales was 24.1 percent compared with 25.0 in the same period of 2017 primarily related to lower restructuring and non-routine expense.
Interest income in both the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 decreased, compared with the same periods in 2017, primarily as a result of lower average balances and reduced current period rates of short-term investments in Brazil. Interest expense in both the three and six months was lower compared to the same prior-year periods due to the favorable impact of refinancing the debt related to the Diebold Nixdorf AG acquisition and lower fee amortization. Foreign exchange loss, decreased in both the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the same prior-year periods, primarily attributable to managing foreign exchange exposure, partially offset by the devaluation of the Argentina peso. 
The loss before taxes and net loss increased primarily due to the reasons described above. Net loss was also impacted by the change in the income tax benefit.
The effective tax rate on loss from continuing operations was 60.6 percent for the three months ended June 30, 2017 and 43.7 percent for the six months ended June 30, 2017. The tax rate on the loss for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 was increased due to the jurisdictional income (loss) mix and varying statutory rates in the Company’s global footprint. These increases to the overall tax rate for these periods were offset in part by additional discrete expense items recognized in the quarter related to uncertain tax positions.
Eurasia Banking net sales decreased $36.0 and $38.9 in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, including a net favorable currency impact of $21.3 in the three months June 30, 2018 and $73.2 in the six months ended June 30, 2018, mainly related to the euro. In addition, prior year net sales in the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 were adversely impacted $6.2 and $12.4, respectively, related to Deferred Revenue Adjustments. Excluding currency and deferred revenue adjustments, net sales in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 decreased $63.5 and $124.5, respectively, due to lower product volume in various countries throughout the segment related to fewer product deployments and projects, particularly in Indonesia, southern Europe and Australia, in addition to decreased services in India as a result of a lower maintenance contract base.
Americas Banking net sales were flat in the three months ended June 30, 2018, including a net unfavorable currency impact of $5.5 related to the Brazil real. Excluding currency, net sales increased $5.7 from higher national account volume in North America and increased product related project activity in Latin America, specifically in Mexico and Ecuador. These increases were partially offset by product volume declines in Brazil and North America regional accounts. In the six months ended June 30, 2018, net sales decreased $47.7 including a net unfavorable currency impact of $5.7 related to the Brazil real. Excluding currency, net sales decreased $42.0 due to lower product volume in Brazil and the North America regional business which was adversely impacted by supply chain delays in the first quarter of 2018. These declines were partially offset by additional product volume in Mexico and Ecuador.
Retail net sales increased $7.5 and $19.7 in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, including a net favorable currency impact of $16.6 in the three months and $53.5 in the six months ended June 30, 2018, mainly related to the euro. In addition, net sales were adversely impacted $4.1 and $8.3 in the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, respectively, related to Deferred Revenue Adjustments. Excluding currency and Deferred Revenue Adjustments, net sales decreased $13.2 and $42.1, in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, due to lower point of sale and kiosk volume, particularly in Germany. These declines were partially offset by higher volume in France, Benelux and Central Eastern Europe and a large retail kiosk project in North America.
Capital resources are obtained from income retained in the business, borrowings under the Company’s committed and uncommitted credit facilities and operating and capital leasing arrangements. Management expects that the Company’s capital resources will be sufficient to finance planned working capital needs, research and development activities, investments in facilities or equipment, pension contributions, the payment of dividends and any repurchases of the Company’s common shares for at least the next 12 months. As of June 30, 2018, $313.5 or 96.1 percent of the Company's cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments reside in international tax jurisdictions. Repatriation of certain international funds could be negatively impacted by potential payments for foreign taxes. The Company has approximately $1,400 of earnings that are available for repatriation with no additional tax expense. The Company has made acquisitions in the past and may make acquisitions in the future. Part of the Company’s strategy is to optimize the business portfolio through divestitures and complementary acquisitions. The Company intends to finance 
Cash flows from operating activities can fluctuate significantly from period to period as working capital needs and the timing of payments for income taxes, restructuring and integration activities, pension funding and other items impact reported cash flows.
Net cash used by operating activities was $256.6 for the six months ended June 30, 2018, an increase in use of $70.8 from $185.8 for the same period in 2017.
The most significant changes in adjustments to net income includes increased depreciation and amortization expense and additional share-based compensation. Depreciation and amortization expense increased $14.1 to $130.7 during the six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to $116.6 during the same period in 2017 primarily due to incremental intangible assets amortization expense related to the finalization of purchase accounting. Share-based compensation increased $5.3 to $20.3 for the six months ended June 30, 2018 primarily due to a change in non-substantive vesting terms of certain awards and an increased number of non-vested awards granted. The impairment increased $86.9 to $90.0 during the six months ended June 30, 2018 from $3.1 during the same period in 2017 primarily due to the impairment of goodwill.
Debt As of June 30, 2018, the Company had various international short-term uncommitted lines of credit with borrowing limits of $198.3. The weighted-average interest rate on outstanding borrowings on the short-term uncommitted lines of credit as of June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 was 8.25 percent and 9.17 percent, respectively. Short-term uncommitted lines mature in less than one year. The amount available under the short-term uncommitted lines at June 30, 2018 was $188.7.
The Credit Agreement includes the Revolving Facility in the amount of up to $520.0 and the Term Loan A Facility in the amount of up to $230.0. On December 23, 2020, the Term Loan A Facility will mature and the Revolving Facility will automatically terminate. The weighted-average interest rate on outstanding Revolving Facility borrowings as of June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 was 4.13 percent and 3.63 percent, respectively, which is variable based on the LIBOR. The amount available under the Revolving Facility as of June 30, 2018 was $380.0.
The Company has $400.0 aggregate principal amount of 2024 Senior Notes which are and will be guaranteed by certain of the Company’s existing and future domestic subsidiaries and mature in 2024.
On May 9, 2017, the Company entered into the Incremental Agreement which reduced the initial Term Loan B Facility of a $1,000.0 U.S. dollar-denominated tranche to $475.0. The reduction was funded using the $250.0 proceeds drawn from the Delayed Draw Term Loan A Facility, a replacement of $70.0 with Term Loan B Facility - Euro and previous principal payments.
The debt facilities under the Credit Agreement are secured by substantially all assets of the Company and its domestic subsidiaries that are borrowers or guarantors under the Credit Agreement, subject to certain exceptions and permitted liens.
The Company's financing agreements contain various financial covenants, including net debt to capitalization, net debt to EBITDA and net interest coverage ratio. As of June 30, 2018, the Company was in compliance with the financial and other covenants in its debt agreements. However, the Company’s current operating performance has been below expectations that existed at the time that the financial covenant levels were established, and if financial performance does not improve, we anticipate noncompliance with the net debt to EBITDA financial covenant at the end of the third quarter of 2018. The Company is in process of seeking an amendment to that covenant or obtaining a waiver thereof from our lenders. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in obtaining an amendment or waiver on commercially reasonable terms or at all.
Dividends The Company paid dividends of $7.7 and $15.3 in the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. In May 2018, the Company announced its decision to reallocate future dividend funds towards debt reduction and other capital resource needs. As a result, there was no quarterly dividend for the three months ended June 30, 2018. The quarterly dividend was $0.10 per share for the three months ended June 30, 2017.
Contractual Obligations In the first six months ended of 2017, the Company entered into purchase commitments due within one year for materials through contract manufacturing agreements for a total negotiated price. At June 30, 2018, the Company had purchase commitments due within one year totaling $3.4 for materials through contract manufacturing agreements at negotiated prices.
The DPLTA offers the Diebold Nixdorf AG minority shareholders, at their election, (i) the ability to put their Diebold Nixdorf AG ordinary shares to Diebold KGaA in exchange for cash compensation of €55.02 per Diebold Nixdorf AG ordinary share or (ii) to remain Diebold Nixdorf AG minority shareholders and receive a recurring compensation in cash of €2.82 per Diebold Nixdorf AG ordinary share for each full fiscal year of Diebold Nixdorf AG. In early August 2018, Diebold Nixdorf AG shareholders have requested redemption of approximately 2.4 shares with a value of $160. The Company expects to utilize cash on hand and borrowings under its Revolving Facility to fund the obligations. The ultimate timing and amount of any future cash payments related to the DPLTA are uncertain. 
Except for the items noted above, all contractual cash obligations with initial and remaining terms in excess of one year and contingent liabilities remained generally unchanged at June 30, 2018 compared to December 31, 2017.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company enters into various arrangements not recognized in the condensed consolidated balance sheets that have or could have an effect on its financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. The principal off-balance sheet arrangements that the Company enters into are guarantees, operating leases and sales of finance receivables. The Company provides its global operations guarantees and standby letters of credit through various financial institutions to suppliers, regulatory agencies and insurance providers. If the Company is not able to make payment, the suppliers, regulatory agencies and insurance providers may draw on the pertinent bank. Refer to note 9 to the condensed consolidated financial statements for further details of guarantees. The Company has sold finance receivables to financial institutions while continuing to service the receivables. The Company records these sales by removing finance receivables from the condensed consolidated balance sheets and recording gains and losses in the condensed consolidated statements of operations.
•the effect of legislative and regulatory actions in the U.S. and internationally and the Company’s ability to comply with government regulations;
