The Company's payment terms vary depending on the individual contracts and are generally fixed fee. The Company recognizes advance payments and billings in excess of revenue recognized as deferred revenue. In certain contracts where services are provided prior to billing, the Company recognizes a contract asset within trade receivables.
The Company includes a warranty in connection with certain contracts with customers, which are not considered to be separate performance obligations. The Company provides its customers a manufacturer’s warranty and records, at the time of the sale, a corresponding estimated liability for potential warranty costs. For additional information on product warranty refer to note 9. The Company also has extended warranty and service contracts available for its customers, which are recognized as separate performance obligations. Revenue is recognized on these contracts ratably as the Company has a stand-ready obligation to provide services when or as needed by the customer. This input method is the most accurate assessment of progress toward completion the Company can apply.
The following is a description of principal activities, separated by reportable operating segments, from which the Company generates its revenue. For more detailed information about reportable operating segments, see note 20.
Product-related services provided by the Company include proactive monitoring and rapid resolution of incidents through remote service capabilities or an on-site visit. First and second line maintenance, preventive maintenance and on-demand services keep the distributed assets of the Company's customers up and running through a standardized incident management process. Managed services and outsourcing consists of the end-to-end business processes, solution management, upgrades and transaction processing. The Company also provides a full array of cash management services, which optimizes the availability and cost of physical currency across the enterprise through efficient forecasting, inventory and replenishment processes.
Services may be sold separately or in bundled packages. The typical contract length for service is generally one year and is billed and paid in advance except for installations, among others. 
For bundled packages, the Company accounts for individual services separately if they are distinct. A distinct service is separately identifiable from other items in the bundled package if a customer can benefit from it on its own or with other resources that are readily available to the customer. The consideration (including any discounts) is allocated between separate services in a bundle based on their stand-alone selling prices. The stand-alone selling prices are determined based on the prices at which the Company separately sells the services. For items that are not sold separately, the Company estimates stand-alone selling prices using the cost plus expected margin approach. Revenue on service contracts is recognized ratably over time, generally using an input measure, as the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits of the Company’s performance as the services are performed. In some circumstances, when global service supply chain services are not included in a term contract and rather billed as they occur, revenue on these billed work services are recognized at a point in time as transfer of control occurs. 
The Company provides front-end applications for consumer connection points and back-end platforms that manage channel transactions, operations and integration. These hardware-agnostic software applications facilitate millions of transactions via automated teller machines (ATMs), point of sale (POS) terminals, kiosks and other self-service devices. The Company's platform software is installed within bank and retail data centers to facilitate omnichannel transactions, endpoint monitoring, remote asset management, customer marketing, merchandise management and analytics. These offerings include highly configurable, application program interface (API) enabled software that automates legacy banking and retail transactions across channels.
Software licenses and professional services may be sold separately or in bundled packages. Software licenses when bundled with significant professional services, where the service is modifying the intellectual property (IP), is non-distinct from the professional service. The consideration (including any discounts) is allocated between distinct obligations in a bundle based on their stand-alone selling prices. For items that are not sold separately, the Company estimates stand-alone selling prices using the cost plus expected margin approach or in the case of the software license the residual approach may be used. The Company’s software licenses are functional in nature (the IP has significant standalone functionality); as such, the revenue recognition of distinct software license sales is at the point in time that the customer obtains control of the rights granted by the license. Revenue from professional services are recognized over time, because the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits of the Company’s performance as the services are performed. In the case of more significant professional services agreements, when the Company’s performance creates an asset with no alternative use to the Company and the Company has an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, revenue is also recognized over time. Generally revenue will be recognized using an input measure, typically cost incurred, in the more significant professional services agreements.
The systems portfolio for banking customers consists of cash recyclers and dispensers, intelligent deposit terminals, teller automation tools and physical security devices. For retail customers, the checkout portfolio includes modular, integrated and mobile POS systems that meet evolving automation and omnichannel requirements of consumers. Supplementing the POS system is a broad range of peripherals, including printers, scales and mobile scanners, as well as the cash management portfolio which offers a wide range of banknote and coin processing systems. Also in the portfolio, the Company provides self-checkout terminals and ordering kiosks which facilitate an efficient and user-friendly purchasing experience. The Company’s hybrid product line can alternate from an attended operator to self-checkout with the press of a button as traffic conditions warrant throughout the business day.
For bundled packages, the Company accounts for individual system products separately if they are distinct - i.e. if a product or service is separately identifiable from other items in the bundled package and if a customer can benefit from it on its own or with other resources that are readily available to the customer. The consideration (including any discounts) is allocated between distinct obligations in a bundle based on their stand-alone selling prices. The stand-alone selling prices are determined based on the prices at which the Company separately sells the products. For items that are not sold separately, the Company estimates stand-alone selling prices using the cost plus expected margin approach. Revenue on systems is recognized at the point in time that the customer obtains control of the system, which could be upon delivery or upon completion of installation services, depending on contract terms. 
Contract assets are minimal for the periods presented. The amount of revenue recognized in 2018 from performance obligations satisfied (or partially satisfied) in previous periods, mainly due to the changes in the estimate of variable consideration and contract modifications was de minimis. There have been $8.8 and $9.8 impairment losses recognized during the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, related to receivables or contract assets arising from the Company's contracts with customers.
As of January 1, 2018, the Company had $437.5 of unrecognized deferred revenue constituting the remaining performance obligations that are either unsatisfied (or partially unsatisfied). In 2018, the Company recognized revenue of $121.9 related to the Company's deferred revenue balance at January 1, 2018.
Contract assets are the rights to consideration in exchange for goods or services that the Company has transferred to a customer when that right is conditional on something other than the passage of time. Contract assets of the Company primarily relate to the Company's rights to consideration for goods shipped and services provided but not contractually billable at the reporting date.
The contract assets are reclassified into the receivables balance when the rights to receive payment become unconditional. Contract liabilities are recorded for any services billed to customers and not yet recognizable if the contract period has commenced or for the amount collected from customers in advance of the contract period commencing. In addition, contract liabilities are recorded as advanced payments for products and other deliverables that are billed to and collected from customers prior to revenue being recognizable.
As of March 31, 2018, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations was approximately $2,200. The Company expects to recognize revenue on the remaining performance obligations over the next twelve months. The Company enters into service agreements with cancellable terms after a certain period without penalty. Unsatisfied obligations reflect only the obligation during the initial term. The Company applies the practical expedient in paragraph 606-10-50-14 and does not disclose information about remaining performance obligations that have original expected durations of one year or less. 
Except for the changes below, the Company has consistently applied the accounting policies to all periods presented in these condensed consolidated financial statements.
The Company adopted Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, with a date of initial application of January 1, 2018. As a result, the Company has changed its accounting policy for revenue recognition as detailed below. 
The Company applied Topic 606 using the cumulative effect method - i.e. by recognizing the cumulative effect of initially applying Topic 606 as an adjustment to the opening balance of equity at January 1, 2018. Therefore, the comparative information has not been adjusted and continues to be reported under Topic 605. The Company applied the practical expedient related to assessment of contract modifications, whereby the Company is essentially allowed to use hindsight when assessing the effect of a modification and accounting for the modified contract as if it existed from the beginning of the original contract. 
Previously, the Company recognized revenue for professional services contracts either on a milestone method or completed contract basis. Under Topic 606, the Company recognizes revenue when control transfers to a customer. As professional services can be highly customized for each customer, there is no alternative use for the services. When there is an enforceable right to payment for service completed combined with no alternative use of the services, the services meet criteria for over time revenue recognition. Revenue is recognized as the services are provided and as the customer benefits from the service. Revenue is recognized progressively based on the costs incurred method. When the professional services are not highly customized as in basic software installation services, customers do not take control of the services until they are completed. Therefore, the Company continues to recognize revenue for such contracts when the services are completed and customers formally accept them.
In May 2018, the Company announced its decision to reallocate future dividend funds towards debt reduction and other capital resource needs.
The Company’s share-based compensation payments to employees are recognized based on their grant-date fair values during the period in which the employee is required to provide services in exchange for the award. Share-based compensation is primarily recognized as a component of selling and administrative expense. Total share-based compensation expense was $13.7 and $6.8 for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Performance shares are granted to employees and vest based on the achievement of certain performance objectives, as determined by the board of directors each year. Each performance share earned entitles the holder to one common share of the Company. The Company's performance shares include performance objectives that are assessed after a three-year period as well as performance objectives that are assessed annually over a three-year period. No shares are vested unless certain performance threshold objectives are met.
As of March 31, 2018, there were 0.1 non-employee director deferred shares vested and outstanding.
On April 25, 2018, the Company's shareholders approved amendments to the 2017 Plan, which provide for an additional 1.2 common shares available for grant. The 2017 Plan is expected to attract and retain directors, officers and employees of the Company by providing incentives and rewards for performance.
The effective tax rate on the net loss was 30.2 percent for the three months ended 2017. Companies are required to apply their estimated annual tax rate on a year-to-date basis in each interim period. Companies should not apply the estimated annual tax rate to interim financial results if the estimated annual tax rate is not reliably predictable. In this situation, the interim tax rate should be based on the actual year-to-date results. As of March 31, 2017, the Company was not able to reasonably estimate the annual effective tax rate for the year ending December 31, 2017, because small fluctuations in the Company's earnings before taxes could have resulted in a material change in the estimated annual tax rate. For this reason, the Company did not believe the estimated annual tax rate would provide a reliable estimate and as a result, the Company computed the interim tax rate based on the actual year-to-date results. The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2017 was primarily a result of the jurisdictional income (loss) mix and varying statutory rates in the Company's global footprint.
31, 2017, the Company had accounts receivable with these affiliates of $13.0 and $15.6, respectively, which are included in trade receivables, less allowances for doubtful accounts on the condensed consolidated balance sheets. As of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the Company had accounts payable balances with these affiliates of $26.1 and $17.8, respectively, which are included in accounts payables on the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
In May 2017, the Company announced a strategic partnership with Kony, a leading enterprise mobility and application company, to offer white label mobile application solutions for financial institutions and retailers. The Company acquired a minority equity stake in Kony, which is accounted for using the cost method of accounting. As of March 31, 2018, the Company's carrying value in Kony was $14.0 and the fair value was not estimated as there were no events or changes in circumstances in the investment. 
Securities and other investments also includes a cash surrender value of insurance contracts of $78.8 and $79.8 as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. In addition, it includes an interest rate swap asset carrying value of $9.5 and $7.6 as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, which also represents fair value (refer to note 18).
The Company has finance lease receivables of $13.3 and $14.4 in other assets as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, in the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
There were no significant changes in provision for credit losses, recoveries and write-offs during the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017. As of March 31, 2018, finance leases and notes receivable individually evaluated for impairment were $32.4 and $15.0, respectively, with no provision recorded. As of March 31, 2017, finance leases and notes receivable individually evaluated for impairment were $56.9 and $18.6, respectively.
The Company records interest income and any fees or costs related to financing receivables using the effective interest method over the term of the lease or loan. The Company reviews the aging of its financing receivables to determine past due and delinquent accounts. Credit quality is reviewed at inception and is re-evaluated as needed based on customer-specific circumstances. Receivable balances 60 days to 89 days past due are reviewed and may be placed on nonaccrual status based on customer-specific circumstances. Receivable balances are placed on nonaccrual status upon reaching greater than 89 days past due. Upon receipt of payment on nonaccrual financing receivables, interest income is recognized and accrual of interest is resumed once the account has been made current or the specific circumstances have been resolved.
As of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the recorded investment in past due financing receivables on nonaccrual status was $0.3 and $0.6, respectively, and there were no recorded investments in finance receivables past due 90 days or more and still accruing interest. The recorded investment in impaired notes receivable was $4.1 as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 and was fully reserved and as of March 31, 2018 are all greater than 89 days past due. 
In 2017, the Company recorded impairments totaling $3.1 related to information technology (IT) transformation and integration activities. There have been no impairment indicators identified during the three months ended March 31, 2018.
Amortization expense on capitalized software of $8.8 and $9.6 was included in service and software cost of sales for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The Company's total amortization expense, including deferred financing costs, was $39.9 and $39.4 for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The Company provides its global operations guarantees and standby letters of credit through various financial institutions for suppliers, customers, regulatory agencies and insurance providers. If the Company is not able to make payments or fulfill contractual obligations, the suppliers, customers, regulatory agencies and insurance providers may draw on the pertinent bank. At March 31, 2018, the maximum future payment obligations related to these various guarantees totaled $182.0, of which $28.0 represented standby letters of credit to insurance providers, and no associated liability was recorded. At December 31, 2017, the maximum future payment obligations relative to these various guarantees totaled $195.1, of which $28.0 represented standby letters of credit to insurance providers, and no associated liability was recorded.
The Company provides its customers a manufacturer’s warranty and records, at the time of the sale, a corresponding estimated liability for potential warranty costs. Estimated future obligations due to warranty claims are based upon historical factors such as labor rates, average repair time, travel time, number of service calls per machine and cost of replacement parts. The decrease in the liability was primarily due to warranties expiring in Brazil.
During 2016, the Company launched a multi-year integration and transformation program, known as DN2020. The DN2020 plan focuses on the utilization of cost efficiencies and synergy opportunities that result from the transformational acquisition of Wincor Nixdorf AG (Diebold Nixdorf AG), which aligns employee activities with the Company's goal of delivering cost reductions of approximately $240 by the year 2020. The Company incurred restructuring charges of $3.8 and $12.9 for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, related to DN2020. The Company anticipates additional restructuring costs of approximately $50 primarily related to severance anticipated for completion of the Company's integration and transformation plans throughout the three lines of business to be incurred through the end of DN2020.
At the beginning of the 2015, Diebold Nixdorf AG initiated the Delta Program related to restructuring and realignment. As part of a change process that has spanned several years, the Delta Program is designed to hasten the expansion of software and professional services operations and to further enhance profitability in the services business. This program includes expansion in the high-end fields of managed services and outsourcing. It also involves capacity adjustments on the hardware side, enabling the Company to respond more effectively to market volatility while maintaining its abilities with innovation. There were no charges during the periods presented. As of the date of the acquisition of Diebold Nixdorf AG, the restructuring accrual balance acquired was $45.5 and consisted of severance activities. During the third quarter of 2017, the Company recorded a measurement period adjustment of $8.2 to the acquired restructuring accrual resulting in a final fair value of $37.3. As of March 31, 2018, the Company does not anticipate additional restructuring costs to be incurred through the end of the plan.
During 2016, the Company entered into a strategic alliance plan with the Inspur Group, a Chinese cloud computing and data center company, to develop, manufacture and distribute banking solutions in China. The Company incurred $0.1 restructuring charges during the three months ended March 31, 2018 related to this plan. There were no charges during 2017. The Company anticipates minimal additional restructuring costs to be incurred through the end of the plan.
As of March 31, 2018, the Company had various international short-term uncommitted lines of credit with borrowing limits of $213.2. The weighted-average interest rate on outstanding borrowings on the short-term uncommitted lines of credit as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 was 9.16 percent and 9.17 percent, respectively, and primarily relate to short-term uncommitted lines of credit in India. Short-term uncommitted lines mature in less than one year. The amount available under the short-term uncommitted lines at March 31, 2018 was $193.9.
The Company has $400.0 aggregate principal amount of senior notes due 2024 (the 2024 Senior Notes) which are and will be guaranteed by certain of the Company’s existing and future domestic subsidiaries and expire in April 2024.
On May 9, 2017, the Company entered into an incremental amendment to its Credit Agreement (the Incremental Agreement) which reduced the initial term loan B facility (the Term Loan B Facility) of a $1,000.0 U.S. dollar-denominated tranche to $475.0. The reduction was funded using the $250.0 proceeds drawn from the Delayed Draw Term Loan A Facility, a replacement of $70.0 with Term Loan B Facility - Euro and previous principal payments.
The debt facilities under the Credit Agreement are secured by substantially all assets of the Company and its domestic subsidiaries that are borrowers or guarantors under the Credit Agreement, subject to certain exceptions and permitted liens.
The Company's financing agreements contain various financial covenants, including net debt to capitalization, net debt to EBITDA and net interest coverage ratio. As of March 31, 2018, the Company was in compliance with the financial and other covenants in its debt agreements.
The DPLTA offers the Diebold Nixdorf AG minority shareholders, at their election, (i) the ability to put their Diebold Nixdorf AG ordinary shares to Diebold KGaA in exchange for cash compensation of €55.02 per Diebold Nixdorf AG ordinary share or (ii) to remain Diebold Nixdorf AG minority shareholders and receive a recurring compensation in cash of €3.13 (€2.82 net under the current taxation regime) per Diebold Nixdorf AG ordinary share for each full fiscal year of Diebold Nixdorf AG. The redemption value adjustment includes the updated cash compensation pursuant to the DPLTA. The Company paid $1.7 during the first quarter of 2017, along with a minimal impact in 2018, in cash compensation to redeem Diebold Nixdorf AG ordinary shares in connection with the DPLTA. The ultimate timing and amount of any future cash payments related to the DPLTA are uncertain. 
In the first quarter of 2018, the Company acquired the remaining portion of it's noncontrolling interest in its China operations for $5.8 in the aggregate.
During 2017, the Company acquired all the capital stock of Moxx and certain assets and liabilities of Visio for $5.6 in the aggregate, net of cash acquired, which are included in the Services the line of business (LOB). During the third quarter of 2017, the Company acquired Moxx, which is a Netherlands based managed services company that provides managed mobility solutions for enterprises that use a large number of mobile assets in their business operations. In the second quarter of 2017, the Company acquired Visio, which is a design company based in Germany.
During 2017, the Company divested its legacy Diebold business in the U.K. to Cennox Group for $5.0, fulfilling the requirements previously set forth by the U.K. Competition and Markets Authority (CMA). The divestiture closed on June 30, 2017. As part of the Company's routine efforts to evaluate its business operations, during 2017, the Company divested its electronic security (ES) businesses located in Mexico and Chile in the second and third quarters of 2017, respectively. The Company recorded a pre-tax gain of $2.2 related to these transactions. The combined net sales of the divestitures represented less than one percent of total net sales of the Company for 2017.
The Company has non-qualified pension plans to provide supplemental retirement benefits to certain officers, which were also frozen since December 2013. Benefits are payable at retirement based upon a percentage of the participant’s compensation, as defined. In addition to providing retirement benefits, the Company provides post-retirement healthcare and life insurance benefits (referred to as other benefits) for certain retired employees. Retired eligible employees in the U.S. may be entitled to these benefits based upon years of service with the Company, age at retirement and collective bargaining agreements. There are no plan assets and the Company funds the benefits as the claims are paid. The post-retirement benefit obligation was determined by application of the terms of medical and life insurance plans together with relevant actuarial assumptions and healthcare cost trend rates.
There have been no significant changes to the expected 2018 plan year contribution amounts previously disclosed. For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, contributions of $22.6 and $6.9, respectively, were made to the qualified and non-qualified pension plans.
The Company is exposed to certain risks arising from both its business operations and economic conditions. The Company principally manages its exposures to a wide variety of business and operational risks through management of its core business activities. The Company manages economic risks, including interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk, through the use of derivative financial instruments. Specifically, the Company enters into derivative financial instruments to manage exposures that arise from business or financing activities. The Company’s derivative foreign currency instruments are used to manage differences in the amount of the Company’s known or expected cash receipts and cash payments principally related to the Company’s non functional currency assets and liabilities. The Company's interest rate derivatives are used to manage the differences in amount due to variable rate interest rate borrowings.
As a result of the adoption of ASU 2017-12, $2.6 was included in net sales and $0.1 in cost of sales for the three months ended March 31, 2018 which would have been included in foreign exchange gain (loss), net in the prior period. 
Net Investment Hedges The Company has international subsidiaries with net balance sheet positions that generate cumulative translation adjustments within AOCI. The Company uses derivatives to manage potential changes in value of its net investments. The Company uses the forward-to-forward method for its quarterly measurement of ineffectiveness assessments of hedge effectiveness. No ineffectiveness results if the notional amount of the derivative matches the portion of the net investment designated as being hedged because the Company uses derivative instruments with underlying exchange rates consistent with its functional currency and the functional currency of the hedged net investment. Changes in value that are deemed effective are accumulated in AOCI where they will remain until they are reclassified to income together with the gain or loss on the entire investment upon substantial liquidation of the subsidiary. The fair value of the Company’s net investment hedge contracts were $(0.1) and $2.0 as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. The net loss recognized in AOCI on net investment hedge derivative instruments $0.9 and $3.0 in the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 
On August 15, 2016, the Company designated its €350.0 euro-denominated Term Loan B Facility as a net investment hedge of its investments in certain subsidiaries that use the euro as their functional currency in order to reduce volatility in stockholders' equity caused by the changes in foreign currency exchange rates of the euro with respect to the U.S. dollar. Effectiveness is assessed at least quarterly by confirming that the respective designated net investments' net equity balances at the beginning of any period collectively continues to equal or exceed the balance outstanding on the Company's euro-denominated term loan. Changes in value that are deemed effective are accumulated in AOCI. When the respective net investments are sold or substantially liquidated, the balance of the cumulative translation adjustment in AOCI will be reclassified into earnings. The net loss recognized in AOCI on net investment hedge foreign currency borrowings was $5.8 and $6.1 for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. On March 30, 2017, the Company de-designated €130.6 of its euro-denominated Term Loan B Facility and on May 9, 2017, the Company designated an additional €66.8 of its euro-denominated Term Loan B Facility as a result of its repricing described under note 11. On September 21, 2017, the Company de-designated €100.0 of its euro-denominated Term Loan B Facility. 
Cash Flow Hedges The Company is exposed to fluctuations in various foreign currencies against its functional currency. At the Company, both sales and purchases are transacted in foreign currencies. The Company has certain subsidiaries with the euro (EUR) as its functional currency that are primarily exposed to the U.S. dollar (USD) and Great Britain pound sterling (GBP). This risk is considerably reduced by natural hedging (i.e. management of sales and purchases by choice location and suppliers). For the remainder of the risk that is not naturally hedged, foreign currency forwards are used to manage the exposure between EUR-GBP and EUR-USD.
Cash Flow Hedges The Company’s objectives in using interest rate derivatives are to add stability to interest expense and to manage its exposure to interest rate movements. To accomplish this objective, the Company primarily uses interest rate swaps as part of its interest rate risk management strategy. Interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges involve the receipt of variable amounts from a counterparty in exchange for the Company making fixed-rate payments over the life of the agreements without exchange of the underlying notional amount. The Company has multiple pay-fixed receive-variable interest rate swaps outstanding with an aggregate notional amount of $400.0.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives designated and that qualify as cash flow hedges is recorded in AOCI and is subsequently reclassified into earnings in the period that the hedged forecasted transaction affects earnings. The ineffective portion of the change in fair value of the derivatives is recognized directly in earnings. The fair value of the Company's interest rate contracts was $13.1 and $9.8 as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
Amounts reported in AOCI related to derivatives will be reclassified to interest expense as interest payments are made on the Company’s variable-rate debt. The Company estimates that a minimal amount will be reclassified as a decrease to interest expense over the next year.
Additionally, the Company does not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes and currently does not have any additional derivatives that are not designated as hedges.
The Company uses the end of period when determining the timing of transfers between levels. During the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, there were no transfers between levels. 
Refer to note 11 for further details surrounding the long-term debt as of March 31, 2018 compared to December 31, 2017.
At March 31, 2018, the Company had purchase commitments due within one year totaling $3.5 for materials and services through contract manufacturing agreements at negotiated prices. The Company guarantees a fixed cost of certain products used in production to its China strategic partners.
The Company has challenged the customs rulings in Thailand seeking to retroactively collect customs duties on previous imports of ATMs. Management believes that the customs authority’s attempt to retroactively assess customs duties is in contravention of World Trade Organization agreements and, accordingly, challenged the rulings. In the third quarter of 2015, the Company received a prospective ruling from the U.S. Customs Border Protection which is consistent with the Company's interpretation of the treaty in question. In August 2017, the Supreme Court of Thailand ruled in the Company's favor, finding that Customs' attempt to collect duties for importation of ATMs is improper. In addition, in August 2016 and February 2017, the tax court of appeals rendered decisions in favor of the Company related to more than half of the assessments at issue. The surviving matters remain at various stages of the appeals process and the Company will use the Supreme Court's decision in support of its position in those matters. Management remains confident that the Company has a valid legal position in these appeals. Accordingly, the Company does not have any amount accrued for this contingency.
The Company's accounting policies derive segment results that are the same as those the Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM) regularly reviews and uses to make decisions, allocate resources and assess performance. The Company continually considers its operating structure and the information subject to regular review by its Chief Executive Officer, who is the CODM, to identify reportable operating segments. The Company’s operating structure is based on a number of factors that management uses to evaluate, view and run its business operations, which currently includes, but is not limited to, product, service and solution. The Company measures the performance of each segment based on several metrics, including net sales and segment operating profit. The CODM uses these results to make decisions, allocate resources and assess performance by LOB.
Net non-routine expense consists of items that the Company has determined are non-routine in nature and not allocated to the LOBs. Net non-routine expense of $35.3 for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was due to acquisition integration expenses of $15.2 primarily within selling and administrative expense and purchase accounting pre-tax charges for amortization of acquired intangibles of $31.2. Net non-routine expense of $77.4 for the three months ended March 31, 2017 was primarily due to legal, acquisition and divestiture related costs of $18.9 inclusive of the mark-to-market impact on Diebold Nixdorf AG stock options and integration expenses of $12.9 primarily within selling and administrative expense and purchase accounting pretax charges, which included deferred revenue of $10.4 and $31.8 in amortization of acquired intangibles.
Each guarantor subsidiary is 100 percent owned by the Parent Company at the date of each balance sheet presented. The notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a joint and several basis by each guarantor subsidiary. The guarantees of the guarantor subsidiaries are subject to release in limited circumstances only upon the occurrence of certain conditions. Each entity in the consolidating financial information follows the same accounting policies as described in the condensed consolidated financial statements, except for the use by the Parent Company and the guarantor subsidiaries of the equity method of accounting to reflect ownership interests in subsidiaries which are eliminated upon consolidation. Changes in intercompany receivables and payables related to operations, such as intercompany sales or service charges, are included in cash flows from operating activities. Intercompany transactions reported as investing or financing activities include the sale of capital stock of various subsidiaries, loans and other capital transactions between members of the consolidated group. 
