•Executed a five-year agreement valued at more than $60 with one of the world’s largest fuel and convenience retailers to deploy a new, centralized card acceptance platform. The contract includes software licenses, professional and maintenance services for stores in 10 European markets
•Renewed two multi-year services contracts, valued at more than $90, with a top-three financial institution in the U.S. and a top-tier bank in Western Europe
These work streams are designed to improve the Company’s profitability and net leverage while establishing a foundation for future growth. The gross annualized savings target for DN Now is approximately $400 through 2021, of which $160 is anticipated to be realized during 2019. In order to achieve these savings, the Company has and will continue to restructure the workforce, integrate and optimize systems and processes, transition workloads to lower cost locations and consolidate real estate holdings. By executing on these and other operational improvement activities, the Company expects to increase customer intimacy and satisfaction, while providing career enrichment opportunities for employees and enhancing value for shareholders.
The Company’s operating structure is focused on its two customer segments - Banking and Retail. Leveraging a broad portfolio of solutions, the Company offers customers the flexibility to purchase the combination of services, software and systems that drive the most value to their business. 
For example, the Company offers end-to-end branch and store automation solutions that consist of the complete value chain of consult, design, build and operate. Branch and store automation helps financial institutions and retailers grow revenue, reduce costs, and increase convenience and security for their customers by migrating routine transactions, typically done inside the branch or store, to lower-cost automated channels. The Company’s advisory services team collaborates with its clients to define the ideal customer experience, modify processes, refine existing staffing models and deploy technologies that meet business objectives.
The Company provides integrated solutions for financial institutions of all sizes designed to help drive operational efficiencies, differentiate the consumer experience, grow revenue and manage risk. Banking operations are managed within two geographic regions. The Eurasia region includes the developed economies of Western Europe as well as the emerging economies of Eastern Europe, Asia, the Middle East and Africa. The Americas region encompasses the United States (U.S.), Canada, Mexico and Latin America.
For banking clients, services represents the largest operational component of the Company. Diebold Nixdorf AllConnect Services was launched in 2018 to power the business operations of financial institutions of all sizes. This as-a-service offering provides financial institutions with the capabilities and technology needed to make physical distribution channels as agile, integrated, efficient and differentiated as their digital counterparts by leveraging a data-driven Internet of Things (IoT) infrastructure. The Company’s product-related services resolve incidents through remote service capabilities or an on-site visit. The portfolio includes first and second line maintenance, preventive maintenance, “on-demand” and total implementation services. 
Managed services and outsourcing consists of managing the end-to-end business processes, technology integration and day-to-day operation of the self-service channel and the bank branch. Our integrated business solutions include self-service fleet management, branch life-cycle management and ATM as-a-service capabilities.
From a product perspective, the banking portfolio consists of cash recyclers and dispensers, intelligent deposit terminals, teller automation and kiosk technologies, as well as physical security solutions. The Company assists financial institutions to increase the functionality, availability and security within their ATM fleet. 
The Company’s software encompasses front-end applications for consumer connection points as well as back-end platforms which manage channel transactions, operations and integration. These hardware-agnostic software applications facilitate millions of transactions via ATMs, kiosks, and other self-service devices, as well as via online and mobile digital channels. 
In 2017, the Company introduced DN Vynamic™ Software, the first end-to-end Connected Commerce software portfolio in the banking marketplace designed to simplify and enhance the consumer experience. In addition, DN Vynamic suite's open application program interface (API) architecture is built to simplify operations by eliminating the traditional focus on internal silos and enabling tomorrow's inter-connected partnerships between financial institutions and payment providers. In addition, with a shared analytic and transaction engine, the DN Vynamic platform can generate new insights to enhance operations across any channel - putting consumer preferences, not the technology, at the heart of the experience. 
An important enabler of the Company’s software offerings is the professional service employees who provide systems integration, customization, project management and consulting. The Company's advisory services team collaborates with customers to refine the end-user experience, improve business processes, refine existing staffing models and deploy technology to automate both branches and stores.
The Company’s comprehensive portfolio of retail solutions, software and services improves the checkout process for retailers while enhancing shopping experiences for consumers.
•Realization of cost reductions, which leverage the Company's global scale, reduce overlap and improve operating efficiencies.
Selling and administrative expense in the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased $0.4 including higher incremental restructuring of $0.9 and non-routine charges of $6.1. Excluding the impact of restructuring, non-routine charges and a net favorable currency impact of $8.9, mostly related to the euro, selling and administrative expense increased $2.3, primarily from higher 
expense related to the mark-to-market adjustment of the legacy Wincor Nixdorf stock option program of $6.4 in addition to higher U.S. based associate related expense. These increases are mostly offset by cost reduction initiatives and restructuring programs across the segments tied to the DN Now program.
Non-routine cost in selling and administrative expense was $44.5 in the three months ended March 31, 2019, an increase of $6.1 compared to the prior year. Higher non-routine cost consisted of increased legal and consulting expense of $20.5 inclusive of $5.6 related to the squeeze out real estate tax, and $3.0 related to a one-time non-cash accounts receivable discount in Brazil. These increases were partially offset by lower integration expense of $14.6 and purchase accounting adjustments of $2.6. Selling and administrative expense included restructuring charges of $2.2, or $0.9 higher than the prior year, related to the workforce alignment under the DN Now plan.
Loss of $3.4 on sale of assets recorded in the three months ended March 31, 2019 includes the loss on divestitures of the Venezuela business of $4.1 and a Eurasia non-core business of $2.8, partially offset by a gain on the liquidation of a separate Eurasia non-core business of $3.5. The gain of $7.7 in the prior year was primarily related to the sale of a building in North America of $4.5 and the liquidation of the Barbados operating entity of $3.3.
The operating loss increased in the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018 including an unfavorable currency impact of $0.8, related primarily to the euro and higher non-routine charges. Excluding the impact of currency and non-routine charges, operating profit increased $13.0 primarily related to higher product gross profit in the Americas and Eurasia banking segments from large roll out and upgrade projects.
period due to the acquisition of the additional $650.0 of Term Loan A-1 Facility debt with higher incremental interest rates and related fee amortization. Foreign exchange gain increased $4.2 primarily as a result of the currency devaluation in Venezuela operating entity in the current year. Miscellaneous net, decreased $1.3 in the three months ended March 31, 2019, unfavorably impacted by higher costs and lower benefits associated with the company owned life insurance.
The loss before taxes and net loss increased primarily due to the reasons described above. Net loss was also impacted by the change in the income tax expense.
The effective tax rate on loss from continuing operations was (85.0) percent for the three months ended March 31, 2019. The expense on the loss is due primarily to the tax impacts of the Tax Act on the estimated projected tax rate. More specifically, the impacts of the GILTI and BEAT. In addition, the Company collapsed its Barbados structure to meet the debt covenant requirements from our lenders during the quarter which resulted in additional discrete tax expense which is being offset in part by the valuation allowance release relating to the Company’s nondeductible interest expense resulting in no additional cash taxes. The above items noted as well as the Company’s jurisdictional income (loss) mix and varying respective statutory rates are the primary drivers of the quarterly tax rate. 
The effective tax rate on the net loss was (40.4) percent for the three months ended March 31, 2018. The expense on the loss is due primarily from impacts related to GILTI on the estimated annual tax rate.
Eurasia Banking net sales decreased $52.5 including a net unfavorable currency impact of $35.7 related primarily to the euro. Excluding currency, net sales decreased $16.8 as services revenue decreased primarily from a maintenance contract roll off with a particular customer in India as well as lower products volume in various Asia Pacific countries, most notably in Taiwan from prior year non-recurring project volume. Additionally, software revenue decreased slightly from a non-core business and in Germany. These decreases were partially offset by increased unit replacements in Germany related to Windows 10 upgrades.
Segment operating profit increased $14.2 in the three months ended March 31, 2019, including a net unfavorable currency impact of $4.5, primarily due to the euro. Excluding the impact of currency, operating profit increased $18.7 due in part to higher gross profit on services and products margin improvements. The favorable services margin was primarily attributable to the services modernization program which benefited numerous countries in Europe and Asia, while products margin also benefited from DN 
Now initiatives as well as higher volume in Germany. Additionally, segment operating profit benefited from lower operating expenses tied to DN Now initiatives, restructuring programs and the phase out of non-profitable service contracts in India.
Americas Banking net sales increased $29.0 including a net unfavorable currency impact of $5.9 related to the Brazil real. Excluding currency, net sales increased $34.9 primarily due to increased installation volume in Canada and the U.S. as well as improved supply chain management in North America. Increased products volume in the Latin America distributor business, Chile and Ecuador drove higher revenue as well as software license volume in Brazil. Partially offsetting these increases, services revenue declined from lower billed work activity and maintenance contract volume in the U.S.
Cash flows from operating activities can fluctuate significantly from period to period as working capital needs and the timing of payments for income taxes, restructuring and integration activities, pension funding and other items impact reported cash flows. Net cash used by operating activities was $57.1 for the three months ended March 31, 2019, a decrease in use of $85.2 from $142.3 for the same period in 2018.
•Cash flows from operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018 were impacted by a $66.3 increase in net loss. Refer to the Results of Operations discussed above for further discussion of the Company's net loss.
Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $6.0 to $58.4 during the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to $64.4 during the same period in 2018 primarily due to a reduction in capital spend. Share-based compensation decreased $4.4 to $9.3 for the three months ended March 31, 2019 primarily due to a reduction in shares awarded in 2019.
The maturities and purchases of investments primarily relate to short-term investment activity in Brazil. The $44.7 change was primarily due to a reduction in utilization of short-term investments in Brazil for cash needs.
Dividends The Company paid dividends of $7.7 in the three months ended March 31, 2018. In May 2018, the Company announced its decision to reallocate future dividend funds towards debt reduction and other capital resource needs. As a result, there was no quarterly dividend for the three months ended March 31, 2019. The quarterly dividend was $0.10 per share for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
Contractual Obligations In the first quarter of 2019, the Company entered into purchase commitments due within one year for materials through contract manufacturing agreements for a total negotiated price. At March 31, 2019, the Company had purchase commitments due within one year totaling $0.1 for materials through contract manufacturing agreements at negotiated prices.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company enters into various arrangements not recognized in the condensed consolidated balance sheets that have or could have an effect on its financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. The principal off-balance sheet arrangements that the Company enters into are guarantees, operating leases and sales of finance receivables. The Company provides its global operations guarantees and standby letters of credit through various financial institutions to suppliers, customers, regulatory agencies and insurance providers. If the Company is not able to make payment, the suppliers, customers, regulatory agencies and insurance providers may draw on the pertinent bank. Refer to note 9 for further details of guarantees. The Company has sold finance receivables to financial institutions while continuing to service the receivables. The records these sales by removing finance receivables from the condensed consolidated balance sheets and recording gains and losses in the condensed consolidated statements of operations.
In addition to the items that the Company disclosed as its critical accounting policies and estimates in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, the company adopted ASU 2016-02 and its subsequent amendments related to lease accounting. The standard requires that a lessee recognize on its balance sheet right-of-use assets and corresponding liabilities resulting from leasing transactions, as well as additional financial statement disclosures. Previously, U.S. GAAP only required balance sheet recognition for leases classified as capital leases. The provisions of this update apply to substantially all leased assets. Subsequent ASUs related to this standard are updates, which prescribe a practical expedient for implementation and narrow-scope improvements for lessors. For more information regarding the implementation of this standard, refer to note 2.
•the effect of legislative and regulatory actions in the U.S. and internationally and the Company’s ability to comply with government regulations;
•the amount and timing of repurchases of the Company's common shares, if any. 
Except to the extent required by applicable law or regulation, the Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
