Continued on next page.
The condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements contained in this report include the accounts of Watsco, all of its wholly owned subsidiaries and the accounts of three joint ventures with Carrier Corporation (“Carrier”), in each of which Watsco maintains a controlling interest.
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Sales of residential central air conditioners, heating equipment, and parts and supplies are seasonal.
Furthermore, results of operations can be impacted favorably or unfavorably based on weather patterns, primarily during the Summer and Winter selling seasons.
-lived intangible assets and long-lived intangible assets.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued guidance on accounting for leases, which requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets for the rights and obligations created by those leases.
In July 2018, the FASB issued updated guidance that provides an additional transition method of adoption that allows entities to initially apply the standard at the adoption date and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.
The adoption of this standard and its related amendments (collectively, the “New Lease Standard”) on January 1, 2019 did not result in the recognition of a cumulative adjustment to opening retained earnings under the additional transition method, nor did it have a significant impact on our consolidated statements of income or cash flows.
See Note 2.
In January 2017, the FASB issued guidance to simplify the subsequent measurement of goodwill by eliminating Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test.
Under this updated standard, an entity should recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value, but the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.
tax-deductible goodwill on the carrying amount of the reporting unit when measuring the goodwill impairment loss, if any.
right-of-use (“ROU”) assets and lease liabilities for operating leases, while accounting for finance leases remained substantially unchanged.
that did not require us to reassess (1) whether existing contracts contain embedded leases, (2) the lease classification of existing leases, and (3) whether initial direct costs for existing leases would qualify for capitalization under the New Lease Standard.
non-lease components for all underlying asset classes.
We have operating leases for real property, vehicles and equipment, and finance leases primarily for vehicles.
Finance lease ROU assets at September 30, 2019 of $2,960 are included in property and equipment, net in our condensed consolidated unaudited balance sheet.
other long-term obligations and other long-term obligations, net of current portion in our condensed consolidated unaudited balance sheet.
ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term, and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
Operating lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement dates of the respective leases in determining the present value of the applicable lease payments.
 expensed as incurred.
1-10 years, some of which include options to extend the leases for up to five years.
Lease payments for short-term leases, which are 12 months or less without a purchase option that is likely to be exercised, are recognized as lease cost on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
At September 30, 2019, we had additional operating leases, primarily for real property, that had not yet commenced.
Such leases had estimated future minimum rental commitments of approximately $1,600.
five years.
These undiscounted amounts are not included in the table above.
Homans previously operated as a division of Carrier Enterprise II and subsequent to the purchase operates as a stand-alone subsidiary of the Company with 16 locations in the Northeastern U.S.
ure with Carrier, Carrier Enterprise, LLC, which we refer to as Carrier Enterprise I, acquired a 34.9% ownership interest in Russell Sigler, Inc. (“RSI”), an HVAC distributor operating from 30 locations in the Western U.S. We have an 80% controlling interest in Carrier Enterprise I, and Carrier has a 20%
Carrier Enterprise I acquired its ownership interest in RSI for cash consideration of $63,600, of which we contributed $50,880 and Carrier contributed $12,720.
Enterprise I’s ownership interest in RSI to 36.3% for cash consideration of $3,760 that was paid on July 5, 2018, of which we contributed $
This acquisition increased Carrier Enterprise I’s ownership interest in RSI to 38.1%.
 Agreement”) with RSI and its shareholders.
 Agreement, RSI’s shareholders have the right to sell, and Carrier Enterprise I has the obligation to purchase, their respective shares of RSI for a purchase price determined based on either book value or a multiple of EBIT, the latter of which Carrier Enterprise I used to calculate the price paid for its investment in RSI.
Additionally, Carrier Enterprise I has the right to appoint two of RSI’s six board members.
board members, this investment in RSI is accounted for under the equity method.
On August 1, 2019, Carrier Enterprise I acquired substantially all of the assets and assumed certain of the liabilities of Peirce-Phelps, Inc. (“PPI”), an HVAC distributor operating from 19 locations in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and Delaware, for $85,000 less certain average revolving indebtedness.
 Carrier contributed cash of $17,000 to Carrier Enterprise I in connection with the acquisition of PPI.
We enter into foreign currency forward contracts that are designated as cash flow hedges.
The settlement of these derivatives results in reclassifications from accumulated other comprehensive loss to earnings for the period in which the settlement of these instruments occurs.
12 months.
one year or less.
The total notional value of our foreign currency exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges at September 30, 2019 was $40,400, and such contracts have varying terms expiring through June 2020.
loss to be reclassified into earnings to reflect the fixed prices obtained from foreign exchange hedging within the next 12 months.
We have also entered into foreign currency forward and option contracts that are either not designated as hedges or did not qualify for hedge accounting.
These derivative instruments were effective economic hedges for all the periods presented.
) from foreign currency forward and option contracts not designated as hedging instruments in our condensed consolidated unaudited statements of income for the quarters ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
We recognized losses of $175 and $299 from foreign currency forward and option contracts not designated as hedging instruments in our condensed consolidated unaudited statements of income for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Equity securities – these investments are exchange-traded equity securities.
Fair values for these investments are based on closing stock prices from active markets and are therefore classified within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.
Derivative financial instruments – these derivatives are foreign currency forward and option contracts.
We paid cash dividends of $1.60, $1.45, $4.80, and $4.15 per share of both Common stock and Class B common stock during the quarters and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
non-vested restricted stock.
These shares were retired upon delivery.
non-vested restricted stock.
These shares were retired upon delivery.
Cash received from Common stock issued as a result of stock options exercised during the quarters and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, was $3,986, $856, $6,229, and $4,837, respectively.
These shares were retired upon delivery.
, respectively, were withheld as payment in lieu of cash for stock option exercises.
These shares were retired upon delivery.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, we received net proceeds of $1,251 and $1,142, respectively, for shares of Common stock issued under our employee stock purchase plan.
Self-insurance reserves are maintained relative to company-wide casualty insurance and health benefit programs.
The level of exposure from catastrophic events is limited by the purchase of stop-loss and aggregate liability reinsurance coverage.
, and valuations provided by independent third-party actuaries.
Management reviews its assumptions with its independent third-party actuaries to evaluate whether the self-insurance reserves are adequate.
If actual claims or adverse development of loss reserves occur and exceed these estimates, additional reserves may be required.
Purchases from Carrier and its affiliates comprised 60% and 64% of all inventory purchases made during the quarters ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Purchases from Carrier and its affiliates comprised 61% and 63% of all inventory purchases made during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
At September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, approximately $120,000 and $71,000, respectively, was payable to Carrier and its affiliates, net of receivables.
Our joint ventures with Carrier also sell HVAC products to Carrier and its affiliates.
statements of income for the quarters and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 included approximately $24,000, $28,000, $68,000, and $65,000, respectively, of sales to Carrier and its affiliates.
arm’s-length basis in the ordinary course of business.
A member of our Board of Directors is the Senior Chairman of Greenberg Traurig, P.A., which serves as our principal outside counsel for compliance and acquisition-related legal services.
no amount was payable at September 30, 2019.
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
