The condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements contained in this report include the accounts of Watsco, all of its wholly owned subsidiaries and the accounts of three joint ventures with Carrier Corporation (“Carrier”), in each of which Watsco maintains a controlling interest. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.  
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued guidance on accounting for leases, which requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets for the rights and obligations created by those leases. In July 2018, the FASB issued updated guidance that provides an additional transition method of adoption that allows entities to initially apply the standard at the adoption date and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings. The adoption of this standard and its related amendments (collectively, the “New Lease Standard”) on January 1, 2019, did not result in the recognition of a cumulative adjustment to opening retained earnings under the additional transition method, nor did it have a significant impact on our consolidated statements of income or cash flows. See Note 2.  
In January 2017, the FASB issued guidance to simplify the subsequent measurement of goodwill by eliminating Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test. Under this updated standard, an entity should recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value, but the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. An entity also should consider income tax effects from any tax-deductible goodwill on the carrying amount of the reporting unit when measuring the goodwill impairment loss, if any. This guidance is effective prospectively and is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019 with early adoption permitted. We do not expect the adoption of this guidance to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  
We adopted the New Lease Standard on January 1, 2019 using the additional transition method described in Note 1 to these condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements. The New Lease Standard had a material impact on our consolidated balance sheet due to the recognition of right-of-use (“ROU”) assets and lease liabilities for operating leases, while accounting for finance leases remained substantially unchanged. Results for reporting periods beginning on and after January 1, 2019 are presented under the New Lease Standard, while prior period results have not been adjusted and continue to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods.  
We elected the package of practical expedients not to reassess 1) whether existing contracts contain embedded leases, 2) lease classification for existing leases and 3) whether initial direct costs for existing leases would qualify for capitalization under the New Lease Standard. We also elected the practical expedients related to short-term leases and separating lease components from non-lease components for all underlying asset classes.  
We have operating leases for real property, vehicles and equipment and finance leases primarily for vehicles. Operating leases are included in operating lease right-of-use assets, current portion of long-term obligations, and operating lease liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet. Finance leases are not considered significant to our consolidated balance sheet or consolidated statement of income. Finance lease ROU assets at March 31, 2019 of $2,783 are included in property and equipment, net in our consolidated balance sheet. Finance lease liabilities at March 31, 2019 of $2,882 are included in current portion of long-term obligations and other long-term obligations, net of current portion in our consolidated balance sheet.  
Operating lease ROU assets also include any lease pre-payments made and exclude lease incentives. Certain of our leases include variable payments, which are excluded from lease ROU assets and lease liabilities, and are expensed as incurred. Our leases have remaining lease terms of 1-9 years, some of which include options to extend the leases for up to five years. The exercise of lease renewal options is at our sole discretion and our lease ROU assets and liabilities reflect only the options we are reasonably certain that we will exercise. Certain real property lease agreements have lease and non-lease components, which are generally accounted for as a single lease component. Lease expense for lease payments is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Lease payments for short-term leases, which are 12 months or less without a purchase option that is likely to be exercised, are recognized as lease cost on a straight-line basis over the lease term.  
At March 31, 2019, we had additional operating leases, primarily for real property, that had not yet commenced. Such leases had estimated future minimum rental commitments of approximately $14,000. These operating leases are expected to commence in 2019 with lease terms of 5-11 years. These undiscounted amounts are not included in the table above.  
We maintain an unsecured, $500,000 syndicated multicurrency revolving credit agreement, which we use to fund seasonal working capital needs and for other general corporate purposes, including acquisitions, dividends (if and as declared by our Board of Directors), capital expenditures, stock repurchases and issuances of letters of credit. The credit facility has a seasonal component from October 1 to March 31, during which the borrowing capacity may be reduced to $400,000 at our discretion (which would effectively reduce fees payable in respect of the unused portion of the commitment). Included in the credit facility are a $100,000 swingline subfacility, a $10,000 letter of credit subfacility, a $75,000 alternative currency borrowing sublimit and an $8,000 Mexican borrowing sublimit. The credit agreement matures on December 5, 2023.  
At March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, $137,500 and $135,200, respectively, were outstanding under the revolving credit agreement. The revolving credit agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, including financial covenants with respect to consolidated leverage and interest coverage ratios, and other customary restrictions. We believe we were in compliance with all covenants at March 31, 2019.  
We enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts to offset the earnings impact that foreign exchange rate fluctuations would otherwise have on certain monetary liabilities that are denominated in nonfunctional currencies.  
We enter into foreign currency forward contracts that are designated as cash flow hedges. The settlement of these derivatives results in reclassifications from accumulated other comprehensive loss to earnings for the period in which the settlement of these instruments occurs. The maximum period for which we hedge our cash flow using these instruments is 12 months. Accordingly, at March 31, 2019, all of our open foreign currency forward contracts had maturities of one year or less. The total notional value of our foreign currency exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges at March 31, 2019 was $44,100, and such contracts have varying terms expiring through December 2019.  
At March 31, 2019, we expected an estimated $340 pre-tax gain to be reclassified into earnings to reflect the fixed prices obtained from foreign exchange hedging within the next 12 months.  
We recognized losses of $113 and $371 from foreign currency forward and option contracts not designated as hedging instruments in our condensed consolidated unaudited statements of income for the quarters ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.  
The following table summarizes the fair value of derivative instruments, which consist solely of foreign exchange contracts, included in other current assets and accrued expenses and other current liabilities in our condensed consolidated unaudited balance sheets. See Note 8.  
Equity securities – these investments are exchange-traded equity securities. Fair values for these investments are based on closing stock prices from active markets and are therefore classified within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.  
Derivative financial instruments – these derivatives are foreign currency forward and option contracts. See Note 7. Fair value is based on observable market inputs, such as forward rates in active markets; therefore, we classify these derivatives within Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy.  
We paid cash dividends of $1.60 and $1.25 per share of Common stock and Class B common stock during the quarters ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.  
During the quarter ended March 31, 2019, 2,985 shares of Common and Class B common stock with an aggregate fair market value of $428 were withheld as payment in lieu of cash to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock. These shares were retired upon delivery.  
Purchases from Carrier and its affiliates comprised 61% and 62% of all inventory purchases made during the quarters ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. At March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, approximately $101,000 and $71,000, respectively, was payable to Carrier and its affiliates, net of receivables. Our joint ventures with Carrier also sell HVAC products to Carrier and its affiliates. Revenues in our condensed consolidated unaudited statements of income for the quarters ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 included approximately $21,000 and $16,000, respectively, of sales to Carrier and its affiliates. We believe these transactions are conducted on terms equivalent to an arm’s-length basis in the ordinary course of business.  
A member of our Board of Directors is the Senior Chairman of Greenberg Traurig, P.A., which serves as our principal outside counsel and receives customary fees for legal services. During the quarters ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, we paid this firm $0 and $4, respectively, for services performed, and no amount was payable at both March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018.  
Effective April 22, 2019, our first joint venture with Carrier, Carrier Enterprise I acquired an additional 1.8% ownership interest in Russell Sigler, Inc. (“RSI”) for cash consideration of $4,940, of which we contributed $3,952 and Carrier contributed $988. This acquisition increased Carrier Enterprise I’s ownership interest in RSI to 38.1%.  
Information with respect to this item may be found in Note 10 to our condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q under the caption “Litigation, Claims and Assessments,” which information is incorporated by reference in this Item 1 of Part II of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.  
