Continued on next page.
The condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements contained in this report include the accounts of Watsco, all of its wholly owned subsidiaries and the accounts of three joint ventures with Carrier Corporation (“Carrier”), in each of which Watsco maintains a controlling interest.
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Sales of residential central air conditioners, heating equipment, and parts and supplies are seasonal.
Furthermore, results of operations can be impacted favorably or unfavorably based on weather patterns, primarily during the Summer and Winter selling seasons.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued guidance on accounting for leases, which requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets for the rights and obligations created by those leases.
In July 2018, the FASB issued updated guidance that provides an additional transition method of adoption that allows entities to initially apply the standard at the adoption date and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.
The adoption of this standard and its related amendments (collectively, the “New Lease Standard”) on January 1, 2019 did not result in the recognition of a cumulative adjustment to opening retained earnings under the additional transition method, nor did it have a significant impact on our consolidated statements of income or cash flows.
In January 2017, the FASB issued guidance to simplify the subsequent measurement of goodwill by eliminating Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test.
Under this updated standard, an entity should recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value, but the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.
tax-deductible goodwill on the carrying amount of the reporting unit when measuring the goodwill impairment loss, if any.
right-of-use (“ROU”) assets and lease liabilities for operating leases, while accounting for finance leases remained substantially unchanged.
We elected the package of practical expedients which did not require us to reassess (1) whether existing contracts contain embedded leases, (2) the lease classification of existing leases, and (3) whether initial direct costs for existing leases would qualify for capitalization under the New Lease Standard.
We also elected the practical expedients related to short-term leases and separating lease components from non-lease components for all underlying asset classes.
We have operating leases for real property, vehicles and equipment, and finance leases primarily for vehicles.
Finance lease ROU assets at June 30, 2019 of $2,759 are included in property and equipment, net in our condensed consolidated unaudited balance sheet.
Finance lease liabilities at June 30, 2019 of $2,852 are included in current portion of long-term obligations and other long-term obligations, net of current portion in our condensed consolidated unaudited balance sheet.
ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term, and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
Operating lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement dates of the respective leases in determining the present value of the applicable lease payments.
non-lease components, which are generally accounted for as a single lease component.
Lease payments for short-term leases, which are 12 months or less without a purchase option that is likely to be exercised, are recognized as lease cost on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Such leases had estimated future minimum rental commitments of approximately $17,000.
These undiscounted amounts are not included in the table above.
Homans previously operated as a division of Carrier Enterprise II and subsequent to the purchase operates as a stand-alone subsidiary of the Company with 16 locations in the Northeastern U.S.
On June 21, 2017, our first joint venture with Carrier, Carrier Enterprise, LLC, which we refer to as Carrier Enterprise I, acquired a 34.9% ownership interest in Russell Sigler, Inc. (“RSI”), an HVAC distributor operating from 30 locations in the Western U.S. We have an 80% controlling interest in Carrier Enterprise I, and Carrier has a 20% non-controlling interest.
Carrier Enterprise I acquired its ownership interest in RSI for cash consideration of $63,600, of which we contributed $50,880 and Carrier contributed $12,720.
This acquisition increased Carrier Enterprise I’s ownership interest in RSI to 38.1%.
Carrier Enterprise I is a party to a shareholders agreement (the “Shareholders Agreement”) with RSI and its shareholders.
Pursuant to the Shareholders Agreement, RSI’s shareholders have the right to sell, and Carrier Enterprise I has the obligation to purchase, their respective shares of RSI for a purchase price determined based on either book value or a multiple of EBIT, the latter of which Carrier Enterprise I used to calculate the price paid for its investment in RSI.
Additionally, Carrier Enterprise I has the right to appoint two of RSI’s six board members.
Given Carrier Enterprise I’s 38.1​​​​​​​% voting equity interest in RSI and its right to appoint two out of RSI’s six board members, this investment in RSI is accounted for under the equity method.
We enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts to offset the earnings impact that foreign exchange rate fluctuations would otherwise have on certain monetary liabilities that are denominated in nonfunctional currencies.
We enter into foreign currency forward contracts that are designated as cash flow hedges.
The settlement of these derivatives results in reclassifications from accumulated other comprehensive loss to earnings for the period in which the settlement of these instruments occurs.
The maximum period for which we hedge our cash flow using these instruments is 12 months.
Accordingly, at June 30, 2019, all of our open foreign currency forward contracts had maturities of one year or less.
pre-tax loss to be reclassified into earnings to reflect the fixed prices obtained from foreign exchange hedging within the next 12 months.
We have also entered into foreign currency forward and option contracts that are either not designated as hedges or did not qualify for hedge accounting.
These derivative instruments were effective economic hedges for all of the periods presented.
We recognized losses of $303 and $191 from foreign currency forward and option contracts not designated as hedging instruments in our condensed consolidated unaudited statements of income for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Equity securities – these investments are exchange-traded equity securities.
Fair values for these investments are based on closing stock prices from active markets and are therefore classified within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.
Derivative financial instruments – these derivatives are foreign currency forward and option contracts.
See Note 9.
There were no transfers in or out of Level 1 and Level 2 during the six months ended June 30, 2019.
We paid cash dividends of $1.60, $1.45, $3.20, and $2.70 per share of both Common stock and Class B common stock during the quarters and six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
non-vested restricted stock.
These shares were retired upon delivery.
non-vested restricted stock.
These shares were retired upon delivery.
Cash received from Common stock issued as a result of stock options exercised during the quarters and six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, was $1,526, $1,369, $2,243, and $3,981, respectively.
These shares were retired upon delivery.
During the six months ended June 30, 2018, 6,651 shares of Common stock with an aggregate fair market value of $1,200 were withheld as payment in lieu of cash for stock option exercises.
These shares were retired upon delivery.
During the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, we received net proceeds of $833 and $760, respectively, for shares of Common stock issued under our employee stock purchase plan.
We are involved in litigation incidental to the operation of our business.
Self-insurance reserves are maintained relative to company-wide casualty insurance and health benefit programs.
The level of exposure from catastrophic events is limited by the purchase of stop-loss and aggregate liability reinsurance coverage.
Management reviews its assumptions with its independent third-party actuaries to evaluate whether the self-insurance reserves are adequate.
If actual claims or adverse development of loss reserves occur and exceed these estimates, additional reserves may be required.
Purchases from Carrier and its affiliates comprised 63% and 64% of all inventory purchases made during the quarters ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Purchases from Carrier and its affiliates comprised 62% and 63% of all inventory purchases made during the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
At June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, approximately $122,000 and $71,000, respectively, was payable to Carrier and its affiliates, net of receivables.
Our joint ventures with Carrier also sell HVAC products to Carrier and its affiliates.
Revenues in our condensed consolidated unaudited statements of income for the quarters and six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 included approximately $23,000, $21,000, $44,000, and $37,000, respectively, of sales to Carrier and its affiliates.
arm’s-length basis in the ordinary course of business.
A member of our Board of Directors is the Senior Chairman of Greenberg Traurig, P.A., which serves as our principal outside counsel for compliance and acquisition-related legal services.
During the quarters and six months ended June 30, 2019 and June 30, 2018, we paid this firm $0, $14, $0 and $18 for services performed, respectively, and no amount was payable at June 30, 2019.
On August 1, 2019, Carrier Enterprise I acquired substantially all of the assets and assumed certain of the liabilities of Peirce-Phelps, Inc. (“PPI”), an HVAC distributor operating from 19 locations in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and Delaware, for $85,000 less certain average revolving indebtedness.
Consideration for the net purchase price consisted of $10,000 in cash and 372,543 shares of Common stock having a fair value of $58,638.
17,000 to Carrier Enterprise I in connection with the acquisition of PPI.
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
