fls.txt



item1.txt
In the opinion of management, the information furnished in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements reflects all normal recurring adjustments that are necessary to fairly state the results for these interim periods and should be read in conjunction with Analog Devices, Inc.’s (the Company) Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 28, 2017 (fiscal 2017) and related notes.
The results of operations for the interim periods shown in this report are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending November 3, 2018 (fiscal 2018) or any future period.
The condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q include the financial results of Linear prospectively from the Acquisition Date.
Fiscal 2018 is a 53-week fiscal year and fiscal 2017 was a 52-week fiscal year.
Revenue from product sales to customers is generally recognized when title passes, which is upon shipment in the U.S. and in certain foreign countries.
Revenue from product sales to customers in other foreign countries is recognized subsequent to product shipment.
For multiple element arrangements, the Company allocates arrangement consideration among the elements based on the relative fair values of those elements as determined using vendor-specific objective evidence or third-party evidence.
Revenue from contracts with the United States government, government prime contractors and some commercial customers is generally recorded on a percentage of completion basis using either units delivered or costs incurred as the measurement basis for progress towards completion.
Changes in contract performance, estimated gross margin, including the impact of final contract settlements, and estimated losses are recognized in the period in which the changes or losses are determined.
Product sales to certain international distributors are made under agreements that permit limited stock return privileges but not sales price rebates.
The Company defers revenue and the related cost of sales on shipments to U.S. distributors and certain international distributors until the distributors resell the products to their customers.
As a result, the Company’s revenue fully reflects end customer purchases and is not impacted by distributor inventory levels.
Sales to certain of these distributors are made under agreements that allow such distributors to receive price-adjustment credits, as discussed below, and to return qualifying products for credit, as determined by the Company, in order to reduce the amounts of slow-moving, discontinued or obsolete product from their inventory.
These agreements limit such returns to a certain percentage of the value of the Company’s shipments to that distributor during the prior quarter.
Generally, the Company will provide a credit equal to the difference between the price paid by the distributor (less any prior credits on such products) and the new price for the product multiplied by the quantity of the specific product in the distributor’s inventory at the time of the price decrease.
Given the uncertainties associated with the levels of price-adjustment credits to be granted to certain distributors, the sales price to the distributor is not fixed or determinable until the distributor resells the products to their customers.


item2.txt
The condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q include the financial results of Linear prospectively from the Acquisition Date.
See Note 13, Acquisitions, in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further information.
Such reclassifications typically do not materially change the sizing of, or the underlying trends of results within, each end market.
Industrial - Industrial end market revenue increased in the three-month period ended August 4, 2018, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, primarily as a result of a broad-based increase in demand for our products in this end market.
The Industrial end market included $691.4 million of revenue in the nine-month period ended August 4, 2018, as compared to $277.5 million of revenue in the nine-month period ended July 29, 2017, as a result of the Acquisition.
Industrial end market revenue increased in the nine-month period ended August 4, 2018, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, primarily as a result of the Acquisition, a broad-based increase in demand for our products in this end market and an additional week of operations in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 as compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2017.


item3.txt



part2.txt
•servicing the substantial debt that we have incurred in connection with the Acquisition.
Continuing uncertainty regarding the stability of global credit and financial markets may lead consumers and businesses to postpone spending, which may cause our customers to cancel, decrease or delay their existing and future orders for our products and make it difficult for us to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities.
Significant disruption to global credit and financial markets may also adversely affect our ability to access external financing sources on acceptable terms.
In addition, financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers or distributors could result in product delays, increased accounts receivable defaults and inventory challenges.
As a result of these and other factors, we may experience material fluctuations in future revenue, gross margins, operating results, net income and earnings per share on a quarterly or annual basis.
In certain markets where end-user demand may be particularly volatile and difficult to predict, some customers place orders that require us to manufacture product and have it available for shipment, even though the customer is unwilling to make a binding commitment to purchase all, or even any, of the product.
As a result of lengthy manufacturing cycles for certain of the products that are subject to these uncertainties, the amount of unsaleable product could be substantial.


