fls.txt



item1.txt
In the opinion of management, the information furnished in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements reflects all normal recurring adjustments that are necessary to fairly state the results for these interim periods and should be read in conjunction with Analog Devices, Inc.’s (the Company) Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 3, 2018 (fiscal 2018) and related notes.
The results of operations for the interim periods shown in this report are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending November 2, 2019 (fiscal 2019) or any future period.
Fiscal 2019 is a 52-week fiscal year and fiscal 2018 was a 53-week fiscal year.
As further discussed in Note 2, Revenue Recognition and Note 13, New Accounting Pronouncements, the Company adopted the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASU 2014-09), in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
The Company adopted ASU 2014-09 using the full retrospective method and applied the practical expedient, in which the Company is not required to disclose the amount of consideration allocated to any remaining performance obligations or an explanation of when the Company expects to recognize that amount as revenue for all reporting periods presented before the date of the initial application.
As a result of the adoption of ASU 2014-09, the Company changed its accounting policy for revenue recognition and recognizes revenue from product sales to its customers and distributors when title passes, which is generally upon shipment.
Prior to the adoption of ASU 2014-09, revenue and the related cost of sales on shipments to certain distributors were deferred until the distributor resold the products to their end customers.
The adoption of ASU 2014-09 impacted the Company’s condensed consolidated statements of income and balance sheets but did not impact its condensed consolidated statements of cash flows, with the exceptions of net income and reclassifications within adjustments to reconcile net income to cash provided by operations, and did not impact the condensed consolidated statement of shareholders' equity, with the exceptions of retained earnings and net income.
Accordingly, the amounts for all periods presented in this Form 10-Q reflect the impact of ASU 2014-09.
See Note 13, New Accounting Pronouncements, and Note 12, Income Taxes, in these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the adoption of ASU 2016-16.
Revenue from contracts with the United States government, government prime contractors and certain commercial customers is recorded over time using either units delivered or costs incurred as the measurement basis for progress toward completion.
Changes in contract performance, estimated gross margin, including the impact of final contract settlements, and estimated losses are recognized in the period in which the changes or losses are determined.
As of May 4, 2019, the Company had repurchased a total of approximately 152.0 million shares of its common stock for approximately $5.8 billion under the Company's share repurchase program.
The Company estimates $2.3 million, net of tax, of losses of forward foreign currency derivative instruments included in OCI will be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months.
As of May 4, 2019, the Company held 10 investment securities, 1 of which was in an unrealized loss position with immaterial gross unrealized losses and an aggregate fair value of $25.0 million.
As of November 3, 2018, the Company held 15 investment securities, 15 of which were in an unrealized loss position with immaterial gross unrealized losses and an aggregate fair value of $205.0 million.


item2.txt
The fiscal year ending November 2, 2019 (fiscal 2019) is a 52-week year and the fiscal year ended November 3, 2018 (fiscal 2018) was a 53-week year.
As data systems for capturing and tracking this data evolve and improve, the categorization of products by end market can vary over time.
Consumer end market revenues decreased in the three-month period ended May 4, 2019, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year as a result of decreased demand for products used in portable consumer applications.
Communications end market revenue increased in the three-month period ended May 4, 2019, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, primarily as a result of an increase in demand for our products sold into the wireless sector and to a lesser extent wireline sector of this end market.
Industrial end market revenues decreased in the six-month period ended May 4, 2019, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, as a result of one less week of operations in the first six months of fiscal 2019, as compared to the first six months of fiscal 2018, and a decrease in demand for products sold into the automation and memory test sectors of this end market, partially offset by an increase in demand for products sold into the aerospace and defense sector of this end market.


item3.txt



part2.txt
Significant disruption to global credit and financial markets may also adversely affect our ability to access external financing sources on acceptable terms.
In addition, financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers, distributors or customers could result in product delays, increased accounts receivable defaults and inventory challenges.
There can be no assurance (i) that products stocked in our inventory will not be rendered obsolete before we ship them, or (ii) that we will be able to design, develop and produce products in a timely fashion to accommodate changing customer demand.
As a result of these and other factors, we may experience material fluctuations in future revenue, gross margins, operating results, net income and earnings per share on a quarterly or annual basis.
•servicing the substantial debt that we have incurred in connection with the Acquisition.
Changes in these laws and regulations, including those that align to or are associated with the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development's Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) Actions Plans, could impact the jurisdictions where we are deemed to earn income, which could in turn adversely affect our tax liability and results of operations.
Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, it is possible that competitors or other unauthorized third parties may obtain, copy, reverse engineer, use or disclose our technologies, products and processes.
As such, any rights granted under these patents may not provide us with adequate protection.


