In the opinion of management, the information furnished in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements reflects all normal recurring adjustments that are necessary to fairly state the results for these interim periods and should be read in conjunction with Analog Devices, Inc.’s (the Company) Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 3, 2018 (fiscal 2018) and related notes.
The results of operations for the interim periods shown in this report are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending November 2, 2019 (fiscal 2019) or any future period.
Fiscal 2019 is a 52-week fiscal year and fiscal 2018 was a 53-week fiscal year.
The additional week in fiscal 2018 was included in the first quarter ended February 3, 2018.
As further discussed in Note 2, Revenue Recognition and Note 13, New Accounting Pronouncements, the Company adopted the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASU 2014-09), in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
The Company adopted ASU 2014-09 using the full retrospective method and applied the practical expedient, in which the Company is not required to disclose the amount of consideration allocated to any remaining performance obligations or an explanation of when the Company expects to recognize that amount as revenue for all reporting periods presented before the date of the initial application.
As a result of the adoption of ASU 2014-09, the Company changed its accounting policy for revenue recognition and recognizes revenue from product sales to its customers and distributors when title passes, which is generally upon shipment.
Prior to the adoption of ASU 2014-09, revenue and the related cost of sales on shipments to certain distributors were deferred until the distributor resold the products to their end customers.
The adoption of ASU 2014-09 impacted the Company’s condensed consolidated statements of income and balance sheets but did not impact its condensed consolidated statements of cash flows, with the exceptions of net income and reclassifications within adjustments to reconcile net income to cash provided by operations and did not impact the condensed consolidated statement of shareholders' equity, with the exceptions of retained earnings and net income.
Accordingly, the amounts for all periods presented in this Form 10-Q reflect the impact of ASU 2014-09.The fiscal year ending November 2, 2019 (fiscal 2019) is a 52-week year and the fiscal year ended November 3, 2018 (fiscal 2018) was a 53-week year.
The following tables summarize revenue by end market for the three-month periods ended February 2, 2019 and February 3, 2018.
As data systems for capturing and tracking this data evolve and improve, the categorization of products by end market can vary over time.Significant disruption to global credit and financial markets may also adversely affect our ability to access external financing sources on acceptable terms.
In addition, financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers, distributors or customers could result in product delays, increased accounts receivable defaults and inventory challenges.
There can be no assurance (i) that products stocked in our inventory will not be rendered obsolete before we ship them, or (ii) that we will be able to design, develop and produce products in a timely fashion to accommodate changing customer demand.
As a result of these and other factors, we may experience material fluctuations in future revenue, gross margins, operating results, net income and earnings per share on a quarterly or annual basis.
Changes in these laws and regulations, including those that align to or are associated with the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development's Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) Actions Plans, could impact the jurisdictions where we are deemed to earn income, which could in turn adversely affect our tax liability and results of operations.