fls.txt



item1.txt
In addition, at any time prior to July 15, 2020, the Issuers may redeem some or all of the 6.0% Senior Notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the redemption date, plus an applicable “make-whole” premium.
 The Company has recorded $38.9 million of revenue in the current period included in the contract liability balance as of the adoption date.
The Company’s Cloud Services revenues substantially consist of monthly recurring subscription and usage-based fees, which are primarily paid in advance by credit card.
Each quarter the Company updates its estimated annual effective tax rate and, if the estimate changes, makes a cumulative adjustment.
An unrealized loss exists when the current fair value of an individual security is less than its amortized cost basis.
In May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No.
321, Investments - Equity Securities (“ASC 321”) which requires the accounting for equity investments (other than those accounted for using the equity method of accounting) generally be measured at fair value for equity securities with readily determinable fair values.
Before July 15, 2020, in connection with certain equity offerings, the Issuers also may redeem up to 35% of the 6.0% Senior Notes at a price equal to 106.0% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but excluding the redemption date.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, the Company recorded an increase in the fair value of the contingent consideration of $4.1 million and reported such increase in general and administrative expenses.
Our Digital Media segment specializes in the technology, gaming, lifestyle and healthcare markets, offering content, tools and services to consumers and businesses.
On February 17, 2011, Emmanuel Pantelakis (“Pantelakis”) filed suit against a j2 Global affiliate in the Ontario Superior Court of Justice (No.
With regard to royalty-bearing license arrangements, the Company recognizes revenues of license fees earned during the applicable period.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, the Company recorded an increase in the fair value of the contingent consideration of $4.1 million and reported such increase in general and administrative expenses.
j2 Global maintains operations in the U.S., Canada, Ireland, Japan and other countries.
Revenue from subscriptions is earned through the granting of access to, or delivery of, certain data products or services to customers.
This cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 5.7 years for awards and 3.5 years for units.
As a practical expedient, the Company has not assessed whether a contract has a significant financing component because the Company expects at contract inception that the period between payment by the customer and the transfer of promised goods or services by the Company to the customer will be one year or less.
For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, 851 and 837 shares were purchased under the plan, respectively.


item2.txt
The analysis included a preliminary assessment on the deductibility of certain amounts for which deferred tax assets may have been recorded.
The increase in our net cash provided by operating activities in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily attributable to a decrease in accounts receivable and increased depreciation and amortization; partially offset by a decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses.
◦Sustain growth or profitability, particularly in light of an uncertain U.S. or worldwide economy and the related impact on customer acquisition and retention rates, customer usage levels and credit and debit card payment declines;
Also, as IP licensing often involves litigation, the timing of licensing transactions is unpredictable and can and does vary significantly from period to period.
Our other expense, net is generated primarily from miscellaneous items, gain or losses on currency exchange and gains or losses on investments.
Corporate assets consist of cash and cash equivalents, deferred income taxes and certain other assets.
As a result, we expect to continue to take steps to improve the relevance of the ads displayed on our websites and those included within our advertising networks.
As a result, we expect to continue to take steps to enhance our existing offerings and offer new services to continue to satisfy the evolving needs of our customers.


item3.txt
Foreign exchange losses for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 were $1.8 million and $0.3 million, respectively.


item4.txt
Item 4.Controls and Procedures


part2.txt
The 10-K Risk Factors are not the only ones we face.


