fls.txt



item1.txt
These third-party solutions, along with our proprietary products, allow the Company to offer customers a variety of solutions to better meet their needs.
As of September 30, 2018, 1,621,462 shares were available under the Purchase Plan for future issuance.
Judgment is also required to determine the standalone selling price for each distinct performance obligation.
This derivative is fair valued using a binomial lattice convertible bond pricing model using historical and implied market information, which are Level 2 inputs.
The fair value of the Convertible Notes at each balance sheet date is determined based on recent quoted market prices or dealer quotes for the Convertible Notes, which are Level 1 inputs (see Note 6 - Fair Value Measurements).
Along with our numerous proprietary Cloud Services solutions, the Company also generates revenues by reselling various third-party solutions, primarily through our email security and online backup lines of business.
During the three month period ended September 30, 2018, the Company purchased 9,509 shares from plan participants for this purpose.
The fair value of the Company’s outstanding debt was determined using the quoted market prices of available debt instruments with similar terms and maturities.
The Company records revenue on a net basis with respect to revenue paid to the Company by certain third-party advertising networks who serve online display and video advertising across the Company’s owned-and-operated web properties and certain third-party sites.
Revenue from subscriptions is earned through the granting of access to, or delivery of, certain data products or services to customers.
In addition, the Cloud Services segment includes fax, voice, backup, security and email marketing products.
Along with our numerous proprietary Cloud Services solutions, the Company also generates revenues by reselling various third-party solutions, primarily through our email security and online backup lines of business.
However, it is not currently possible to estimate the amount, if any, of such change.
These contractual provisions did not, as of September 30, 2018, restrict j2 Cloud’s ability to pay dividends to j2 Global, Inc.
The Convertible Notes are carried at face value less any unamortized debt discount and debt issuance costs.
As of the same dates, the carrying value of other long-term liabilities approximated fair value as the related interest rates approximate rates currently available to j2 Global.
4,200,000 shares of j2 Global common stock are authorized to be used for 2015 Plan purposes.
j2 believes that the OCV general partner, as a single decision maker, holds the ability to make the decisions about the activities that most significantly impacts the OCV Fund’s economic performance.


item2.txt
Net cash provided by operating activities was $294.1 million and $179.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
In July 2016, the Company acquired and subsequently retired 935,231 shares of j2 Global common stock in connection with the acquisition of Integrated Global Concepts, Inc. As a result of the purchase of j2 Global common stock, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a reduction in the number of shares available for purchase under the 2012 Program by the same amount leaving 1,938,689 shares of j2 Global common stock available for purchase under this program.
As of September 30, 2018, we did not adjust the provisional estimate related to re-measurement of deferred tax balances.
Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
On October 29, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a quarterly cash dividend of $0.4350 per share of j2 Global common stock payable on December 5, 2018 to all stockholders of record as of the close of business on November 19, 2018.
Our Cloud Services segment generates revenues primarily from customer subscription and usage fees and from IP licensing fees.
1.a decrease during 2018 from the reduction in the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate from 35% to 21% effective on January 1, 2018;
Our interest expense, net is generated primarily from interest expense due to outstanding debt, partially offset by interest income earned on cash, cash equivalents and investments.


item3.txt
As we expand our international presence, we become further exposed to foreign currency risk by entering new markets with additional foreign currencies.


item4.txt
32.1Section 1350 Certification of Principal Executive Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.


part2.txt
Item 5.Other Information


