fls.txt



item1.txt
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets.
Discovery has closed.
Upon adoption of ASU 2016-02 and its related Updates, the Company recorded approximately $72.0 million of right-of-use assets and approximately $75.0 million of operating lease liabilities.
The June 2018 U.S. Supreme Court ruling in South Dakota v. Wayfair, Inc., No.
Revenues are also earned from listing fees, subscriptions to online publications, and from other sources.
Net income contributed by these acquisitions was not separately identifiable due to J2 Global’s integration activities and is impracticable to provide.
The accounting policies of the businesses are the same as those described in Note 1 - Basis of Presentation.
On July 22, 2014, the Commissioner denied the J2 Global affiliate’s application for abatement.
Trading securities are those investments that the Company intends to sell within a few hours or days and are carried at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses included in investment income.
Identifiable intangible assets are comprised of purchased customer relationships, trademarks and trade names, developed technologies and other intangible assets.
As a practical expedient, the Company has not separated lease components from nonlease components for its real property operating leases.
The Company adopted ASU 2014-09 and its related standard updates in January 2018 using a modified-retrospective approach with the cumulative effect of initially applying the Update recognized at the date of application in retained earnings.
The Company records revenue on a gross basis with respect to revenue generated (i) by the Company serving online display and video advertising across its owned and operated web properties, on third-party sites or on unaffiliated advertising networks, (ii) through the Company’s lead-generation business and (iii) through the Company’s subscriptions.
The Company estimates the expected term based upon the historical exercise behavior of our employees.
The Company drew $100.0 million on its Credit Facility in the second quarter of 2019.
Unrealized losses that are determined to be temporary in nature are recorded, net of tax, in accumulated other comprehensive income for available-for-sale securities.
In connection with the acquisition of Ekahau Inc., on October 10, 2018, contingent consideration of up to $15.0 million may be payable upon achieving certain future revenue thresholds and had a fair value of $12.0 million and $3.7 million at June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.
The Issuers may redeem some or all of the 6.0% Senior Notes at any time on or after July 15, 2020 at specified redemption prices plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but excluding the redemption date.
For those customers with amortization periods determined to be greater than one year, the Company capitalizes and amortizes the expenses over the period of benefit.


item2.txt
In a given period, we may close greater or fewer acquisitions than in prior periods or acquisitions of greater or lesser significance than in prior periods.
As a result of these factors, Digital Media’s operating income of $1.5 million for the three months ended June 30, 2019 decreased $1.7 million, or 52.3%, and operating income (loss) of $0.5 million for the six months ended June 30, 2019 increased $0.7 million, or 349.0%, from the prior comparable periods.
Cloud Services revenues primarily consist of revenues from “fixed” customer subscription revenues and “variable” revenues generated from actual usage of our services.
Our critical accounting policies are described in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 1, 2019.
As a result of the acquisition of J2 Global common stock through the Company’s share repurchase program, the number of shares available for purchase under the 2012 Program is 1,338,689 shares of J2 Global common stock.
Digital Media revenues primarily consist of advertising revenues, subscriptions earned through the granting of access to, or delivery of, certain data products or services to customers, fees paid for generating business leads, and licensing and sale of editorial content and trademarks.
In addition, we incurred increased content fees associated with certain gaming titles within the Media segment in comparison to the prior comparable period.


item3.txt
If the LIBOR-based interest rates or Federal Funds Effective Rate would have increased by 100 basis points, annual interest expense would have increased by $1.0 million as it relates to our Credit Facility that bear variable market interest rates.
Foreign exchange (gains) losses for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 were $(0.3) million and $0.2 million, respectively, and for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 were $1.9 million and $2.0 million, respectively.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1A.


