fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company has concluded revenue is recognized based on delivery of services over the contract period for advertising and on a straight-line basis over the contract period for subscriptions.
 §Level 1 – Observable inputs that reflect quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets.
The purchase price discount and the look-back feature cause the Purchase Plan to be compensatory and the Company to recognize compensation expense.
These contractual provisions did not, as of March 31, 2019, restrict j2 Cloud’s ability to pay dividends to j2 Global, Inc.
Compensation expense resulting from restricted stock and restricted unit grants is measured at fair value on the date of grant and is recognized as share-based compensation expense over the applicable vesting period.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring adjustments) considered necessary for a fair presentation have been reflected in these interim financial statements.
Revenues for related software support and maintenance performance obligations are related to technical support provided to customers as needed and unspecified software product upgrades, maintenance releases and patches during the term of the support period when they are available.
Certain prior year reported amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 2019 presentation.
Goodwill recognized associated with these acquisitions during the three months ended March 31, 2019 is $37.4 million, of which $33.2 million is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
Item 1A.
As a practical expedient, the Company has not assessed whether a contract has a significant financing component because the Company expects at contract inception that the period between payment by the customer and the transfer of promised goods or services by the Company to the customer will be one year or less.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, the Company recorded adjustments to the initial working capital related to prior period acquisitions in the Digital Media business, which resulted in a net decrease in goodwill of $1.5 million (see Note 7 - Goodwill and Intangible Assets).
In addition, the Company provides content to its advertising partners which the Company sells to its partners’ customer base and receives a revenue share based on the terms of the agreement.
In connection with achieving certain visitor thresholds, contingent consideration of $0.8 million was paid to the seller during the first quarter of 2019 in connection with this acquisition.
Credit impairment is assessed using a combination of a discounted cash flow model that estimates the cash flows on the underlying securities and a market comparable method, where the security is valued based upon indications from the secondary market of what discounts buyers demand when purchasing similar securities.
During the three month period ended March 31, 2019, the Company repurchased zero shares under this program.
On April 2, 2019, in a cash transaction, the Company acquired through a share purchase all the issued capital of Highwinds Capital, Inc. and Cloak Holdings, LLC, a Texas-based provider in solutions for virtual private network (“VPN”) services.
As a limited partner in the Fund, the Company will pay an annual management fee to the manager equal to 2.0% (reduced by 10% each year beginning with the sixth year) of capital commitments.
Upon adoption of ASU 2016-02 and its related Updates, the Company recorded approximately $72.0 million of right-of-use assets and approximately $75.0 million of operating lease liabilities.


item2.txt
Cloud Services’ gross profit of $119.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased $1.3 million, or 1.1%, from the prior comparable period primarily due to business acquisitions.
The increase in our net cash provided by operating activities in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily attributable to an increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses and increased depreciation and amortization; partially offset by an increase in accounts receivable, lower uncertain tax positions and reduced deferred revenue.
The increase in general and administrative expense for the three months ended March 31, 2019 versus the prior comparable period was primarily due to additional amortization of intangible assets, increased depreciation expense, personnel costs relating to businesses acquired in and subsequent to the first quarter 2018; partially offset by lower bad debt expense.
We have not presented contingent consideration associated with acquisitions (other than the $40.0 million in contingent consideration associated with the acquisition of Humble Bundle) in the table above due to the uncertainty of the amounts and the timing of cash settlements.
At March 31, 2019, we had cash and investments of $320.3 million compared to $293.3 million at December 31, 2018.
The change in net cash used in financing activities in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily attributable to the proceeds from the exercise of stock options; partially offset by the payment of dividends and business acquisitions.
The increase in our net cash provided by operating activities in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily attributable to an increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses and increased depreciation and amortization; partially offset by an increase in accounts receivable, lower uncertain tax positions and reduced deferred revenue.


item3.txt
Our return on these investments is subject to interest rate fluctuations.


item4.txt
32.2Section 1350 Certification of Principal Financial Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.


part2.txt
Effective February 15, 2012, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a program authorizing the repurchase of up to five million shares of our common stock through February 20, 2013 (the “2012 Program”) which was subsequently extended through February 20, 2020.


