Hurco Companies, Inc. is an international industrial technology company operating in a single segment.
We design, manufacture and sell computerized (i.e., Computer Numeric Control, or CNC) machine tools, consisting primarily of vertical machining centers (mills) and turning centers (lathes), to companies in the metal cutting industry through a worldwide sales, service and distribution network.
Although the majority of our computer control systems and software products are proprietary, they predominantly use industry standard personal computer components.
Our computer control systems and software products are primarily sold as integral components of our computerized machine tool products.
We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service and training support.
The following overview is intended to provide a brief explanation of the principal factors that have contributed to our recent financial performance.
During the nine months of fiscal 2018, approximately 55% of our revenues were attributable to customers in Europe, where we typically sell more of our higher-performance, higher-priced VMX series machines.
We also have our own direct sales and service organizations in China, France, Germany, India, Italy, Poland, Singapore, South Africa, Taiwan, the United Kingdom and certain parts of the United States, which are among the world’s principal machine tool consuming markets.
Machine castings and components to support HML’s production are manufactured at our wholly-owned subsidiary in Ningbo, China, Ningbo Machine Tool Co., Ltd.
Components to support our SRT line of five-axis machining centers, such as the direct drive spindle, swivel head and rotary table, are manufactured by LCM in Italy.
Our sales to foreign customers are denominated, and payments by those customers are made, in the prevailing currencies in the countries in which those customers are located (primarily the Euro, Pound Sterling and Chinese Yuan).
Our product costs are incurred and paid primarily in the New Taiwan Dollar and the U.S. Dollar.
For example, when the U.S. Dollar weakens in value relative to a foreign currency, sales made, and expenses incurred, in that currency when translated to U.S.
Dollars for reporting in our financial statements are higher than would be the case when the U.S. Dollar is stronger.
We seek to mitigate those risks through the use of various derivative instruments – principally foreign currency forward exchange contracts.
See Note 2 of Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
Sales and Service Fees.
Sales and service fees for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 were $78.8 million, an increase of $18.0 million, or 30%, compared to the corresponding prior year period and included a favorable currency impact of $1.8 million, or 3%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
The increase in sales was mainly attributable to an increased sales volume of vertical milling and lathe machines from the Hurco, Milltronics and Takumi product lines.
European sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 31%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of 4%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
The increase in European sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 resulted mainly from increased customer demand for Hurco vertical milling and lathe machines in Germany, the United Kingdom and France.
Asian Pacific sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 55%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of 3%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
The increase in Asian Pacific sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily attributable to increased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi vertical milling and lathe machines in China and India.
† Amounts shown do not include computer control systems and software sold as an integrated component of computerized machine systems.
Sales of service parts increased in the third quarter of fiscal 2018, compared to the corresponding prior year period, due primarily to an increase in aftermarket sales in the Americas and France.
Service fees increased slightly in the third quarter of fiscal 2018, compared to the corresponding prior year period, due primarily to increased demand for aftermarket service in the United Kingdom and the Americas.
Orders for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 were $76.0 million, an increase of $13.4 million, or 21%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of $2.0 million, or 3%, when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars.
Orders in the Americas for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 9%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017.
The increase was largely attributable to increased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi vertical milling machines.
European orders for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 25%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, and included a favorable currency impact of 5%, when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars.
This increase in orders resulted mainly from increased customer demand for Hurco vertical milling and lathe machines in Germany, France and the United Kingdom, as well as increased customer demand for machine tool components and accessories manufactured by our wholly-owned subsidiary, LCM.
This increase in Asian Pacific orders was due primarily to increased customer demand for Hurco vertical milling machines in India and Southeast Asia, as well as increased customer demand for Takumi vertical milling machines in China.
Gross profit for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was $24.5 million, or 31% of sales, compared to $17.5 million, or 29% of sales, for the corresponding prior year period.
The year-over-year increase in gross profit as a percentage of sales reflected the increased volume of sales of Hurco machines, particularly in Europe, and the favorable impact of foreign currency translation compared to the corresponding prior year period.
Operating Expenses.
Selling, general and administrative expenses for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 were $15.2 million, or 19% of sales, compared to $12.4 million, or 20% of sales, in the corresponding period in fiscal 2017.
The year-over-year increase in selling, general and administrative expenses for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was driven by an unfavorable currency impact of $0.1 million, when translating foreign expenses to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes, as well as increased expenses for global marketing and employee incentive compensation.
Operating income for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was $9.4 million compared to $5.1 million for the corresponding period in fiscal 2017.
The increase in operating income year-over-year was driven primarily by increased volume of sales of Hurco machines, particularly in Europe, and the favorable impact of foreign currency translation compared to the corresponding prior year period.
Other (Income) Expense, Net.
Other (income) expense, net in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 decreased by $0.6 million from the corresponding period in fiscal 2017 due primarily to net realized and unrealized losses from foreign currency fluctuations on payables and receivables, net of foreign currency forward exchange contracts.
Our effective tax rate for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was 28%, compared to 26% in the corresponding prior year period.
The year-over-year increase in the effective tax rate for the third quarter principally resulted from a shift in geographic mix of income and loss among tax jurisdictions.
Sales and Service Fees.
Sales and service fees for the nine months of fiscal 2018 were $217.6 million, an increase of $49.9 million, or 30%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of $11.1 million, or 7%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
The increase in sales was mainly attributable to an increased sales volume of vertical milling and lathe machines from the Hurco, Milltronics and Takumi product lines.
European sales for the nine months of fiscal 2018 increased by 33%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of 11%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
The increase in European sales for the nine months of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to increased customer demand for Hurco vertical milling and lathe machines in Germany, the United Kingdom and Italy.
Asian Pacific sales for the nine months of fiscal 2018 increased by 40%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of 6%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
The increase in Asian Pacific sales for the nine months of fiscal 2018 was primarily attributable to increased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi vertical milling and lathe machines in China and India.
Exclusive of a 7% favorable currency impact, the year-over-year increase in sales of computerized machine tools, computer control systems and software, service parts and service fees for the nine months of fiscal 2018 was driven primarily by increased demand of vertical milling and lathe machines, aftermarket sales and service from all product lines and across all of our three geographic regions.
Orders for the nine months of fiscal 2018 were $232.8 million, an increase of $45.9 million, or 25%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of $12.3 million, or 7%, when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars.
The increase was largely attributable to increased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi vertical milling machines.
For the nine months of fiscal 2018, European orders increased by 34%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, and included a favorable currency impact of 11%, when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars.
The year-over-year increase in European orders in the nine months ended July 31, 2018 was driven predominantly by increased customer demand for Hurco vertical milling and lathe machines in Germany, France, Italy and the United Kingdom, and increased demand for LCM machine tool components and accessories.
Asian Pacific orders for the nine months of fiscal 2018 increased by 27%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, and included a favorable currency impact of 5%, when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars.
Gross profit for the nine months of fiscal 2018 was $64.0 million, or 29% of sales, compared to $47.2 million, or 28% of sales, for the corresponding prior year period.
The year-over-year increase in gross profit as a percentage of sales reflected the increased volume of sales of Hurco machines, particularly in Europe, and the favorable impact of foreign currency translation compared to the corresponding prior year period.
Operating Expenses.
Selling, general and administrative expenses for the nine months of fiscal 2018 were $41.4 million, or 19% of sales, compared to $35.3 million, or 21% of sales, in the corresponding period in fiscal 2017.
The increase in operating income year-over-year was driven primarily by increased volume of sales of Hurco machines, particularly in Europe, and the favorable impact of foreign currency translation compared to the corresponding prior year period.
Other (Income) Expense, Net.
Other (income) expense, net in the nine months of fiscal 2018 decreased by $0.7 million from the corresponding period in fiscal 2017 due primarily to net realized and unrealized losses from foreign currency fluctuations on payables and receivables, net of foreign currency forward exchange contracts.
Our effective tax rate for the nine months of fiscal 2018 was 40%, compared to 29% in the corresponding prior year period.
The year-over-year increase in the effective tax rate for the nine months of fiscal 2018 was primarily attributable to one-time charges of $2.9 million related to the Tax Reform that was enacted on December 22, 2017.
The impact of these one-time charges increased the effective tax rate by approximately 39% for the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Excluding the impact of these charges, earnings per diluted share would have been $0.43 higher than the earnings per diluted share we reported for the nine months of fiscal 2018.
At July 31, 2018, we had cash and cash equivalents of $77.0 million, compared to $66.3 million at October 31, 2017.
Approximately 64% of the $77.0 million of cash and cash equivalents is denominated in U.S.
We do not believe that the indefinite reinvestment of these funds offshore impairs our ability to meet our domestic working capital needs.
The increase in working capital was mostly driven by an increase in cash and inventories, partially offset by a reduction in accounts receivable and an increase in accounts payable.
We funded these expenditures with cash on hand.
At July 31, 2018, we had $1.5 million of borrowings outstanding under our China credit facility.
At July 31, 2018, we had an aggregate of $19.5 million available for borrowing under our credit facilities and were in compliance with all covenants relating thereto.
We believe our cash position and borrowing capacity under our credit facilities provide adequate liquidity to fund our operations over the next twelve months and allow us to remain committed to our strategic plan of product innovation and targeted penetration of developing markets.
There were no material changes to our critical accounting policies during the nine months of fiscal 2018.
There have been no material changes related to our contractual obligations and commitments from the information provided in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2017.
From time to time, our subsidiaries guarantee third party payment obligations in connection with the sale of machines to customers that use financing.
As of July 31, 2018, we had 23 outstanding third party payment guarantees totaling approximately $0.6 million.
Upon shipment of a machine, the customer assumes the risk of ownership.
The customer does not obtain title, however, until the customer has paid for the machine.
A retention of title clause allows us to recover the machine if the customer defaults on the financing.
We accrue liabilities under these guarantees at fair value, which amounts are insignificant.
Certain statements made in this report constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.
We did not repurchase any shares of our common stock in the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
This disclosure is made pursuant to Section 10A9(i)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as added by Section 202 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
