Hurco Companies, Inc. is an international industrial technology company operating in a single segment.
We design, manufacture and sell computerized (i.e., Computer Numeric Control, or CNC) machine tools, consisting primarily of vertical machining centers (mills) and turning centers (lathes), to companies in the metal cutting industry through a worldwide sales, service and distribution network.
Although the majority of our computer control systems and software products are proprietary, they predominantly use industry standard personal computer components.
Our computer control systems and software products are primarily sold as integral components of our computerized machine tool products.
We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service, training and applications support.
The following overview is intended to provide a brief explanation of the principal factors that have contributed to our recent financial performance.
During the nine months of fiscal 2019, approximately 51% of our revenues were attributable to customers in Europe, where we typically sell more of our higher-performance, higher-priced VMX series machines.
We also have our own direct sales and service organizations in China, France, Germany, India, Italy, Poland, Singapore, South Africa, Taiwan, the United Kingdom and certain parts of the United States, which are among the world’s principal machine tool consumption markets.
Components to support our SRT line of five-axis machining centers, such as the direct drive spindle, swivel head and rotary table, are manufactured by LCM in Italy.
Our sales to foreign customers are denominated, and payments by those customers are made, in the prevailing currencies in the countries in which those customers are located (primarily the Euro, Pound Sterling and Chinese Yuan).
Our product costs are incurred and paid primarily in the New Taiwan Dollar and the U.S. Dollar.
For example, when the U.S. Dollar weakens in value relative to a foreign currency, sales made, and expenses incurred, in that currency when translated to U.S.
Dollars for reporting in our financial statements, are higher than would be the case when the U.S. Dollar is stronger.
In the comparison of our period-to-period results, we discuss the effect of currency translation on those results, which reflect translation to U.S.
We seek to mitigate those risks through the use of various derivative instruments, principally foreign currency forward exchange contracts.
See Note 3 of Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
Sales and Service Fees.
Sales and service fees for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 were $58.5 million, a decrease of $20.3 million, or 26%, compared to the corresponding prior year period and included an unfavorable currency impact of $1.9 million, or 2%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
The increase in sales for the third quarter fiscal 2019 was primarily attributable to sales of vertical milling machines from a U.S. machine tool distributor acquired by Hurco in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 located in California, one of the largest machine tool markets in the U.S., and increased customer demand for Hurco, Milltronics and Takumi vertical milling machines in the U.S. European sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased by 31% compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
Sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 included an unfavorable currency impact of 4% when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
The decrease in European sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was primarily attributable to a reduced volume of shipments of Hurco vertical milling machines in Germany and the United Kingdom.
The decrease in Asian Pacific sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was primarily attributable to decreased shipments of Hurco vertical milling machines and Takumi bridge mill machines in China and an unfavorable currency impact of 2% when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
† Amounts shown do not include computer control systems and software sold as an integrated component of computerized machine systems.
Sales of computerized machine tools and computer control systems and software decreased by 29% and 16%, respectively, for the third quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, due mainly to a reduced volume of shipments of Hurco vertical milling machines and Takumi bridge mill machines.
Sales of service parts decreased in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 by 8%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, primarily due to a reduction in aftermarket sales of service parts for all three product lines, Hurco, Takumi and Milltronics.
Service fees increased in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 by 2%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
Orders for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 were $53.0 million, a decrease of $23.0 million, or 30%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included an unfavorable currency impact of $1.8 million, or 2%, when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars.
Orders in the Americas for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased by 8%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, due primarily to decreased customer demand in the U.S. for Hurco vertical milling machines, partially offset by an increase in orders for Takumi vertical milling machines and vertical milling machines sold by the newly acquired distributor.
European orders for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased by 39%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, and included an unfavorable currency impact of 4% when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars.
Asian Pacific orders for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased by 37%, compared to the corresponding prior year period and included an unfavorable currency impact of 2% when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars.
Gross profit for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was $17.2 million, or 29% of sales, compared to $24.5 million, or 31% of sales, for the corresponding prior year period.
Operating Expenses.
Selling, general and administrative expenses for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 were $12.6 million, or 22% of sales, compared to $15.2 million, or 19% of sales, in the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included a favorable currency impact of $278,000 when translating foreign expenses to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
Operating Income.
Operating income for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was $4.6 million, compared to $9.4 million for the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
Other Income (Expense), Net.
Other expense, net in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased by $0.4 million from the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, due primarily to net realized and unrealized losses from foreign currency fluctuations on payables and receivables, net of foreign currency forward exchange contracts.
The effective tax rate for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was 25%, compared to 28% in the corresponding prior year period.
The year-over-year decrease in the effective tax rate for the third quarter was primarily due to a shift in taxable income and loss among the various geographic regions.
Sales and Service Fees.
Sales and service fees for the nine months of fiscal 2019 were $203.4 million, a decrease of $14.2 million, or 7%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included an unfavorable currency impact of $7.3 million, or 3%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
Sales in the Americas for the nine months of fiscal 2019 increased by 19%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
The increase in sales for the nine months of fiscal 2019 was primarily attributable to sales of vertical milling machines from the newly acquired distributor, and increased customer demand for Hurco, Milltronics and Takumi vertical milling machines in the U.S. European sales for the nine months of fiscal 2019 decreased by 14%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
Sales for the nine months of fiscal 2019 included an unfavorable currency impact of 5%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
The decrease in European sales for the nine months of fiscal 2019 was primarily attributable to a reduced volume of shipments of Hurco vertical milling machines in Germany and the United Kingdom.
† Amounts shown do not include computer control systems and software sold as an integrated component of computerized machine systems.
Sales of computerized machine tools for the nine months of fiscal 2019 decreased by 8%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included an unfavorable currency impact of 3% when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
The decrease was primarily attributable to a reduced volume of shipments of Hurco and Takumi machines in Europe and China.
Sales of computer control systems and software increased by 4%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, due mainly to an increase in aftermarket software sales in France and the Americas.
Sales of service parts and service fees increased in the nine months of fiscal 2019 by 4% each, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, due primarily to sales of aftermarket sales and service by the newly acquired distributor.
Orders for the nine months of fiscal 2019 were $188.2 million, a decrease of $44.6 million, or 19%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included an unfavorable currency impact of $7.2 million, or 3%, when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars.
Orders in the Americas for the nine months of fiscal 2019 increased by 3% due to increased customer demand for Takumi vertical milling machines and vertical milling machines sold by the newly acquired distributor.
European orders for the nine months of fiscal 2019 decreased by 28%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, and included an unfavorable currency impact of 4% when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars.
Asian Pacific orders for the nine months of fiscal 2019 decreased by 25%, compared to the corresponding prior year period and included an unfavorable currency impact of 4% when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars.
Gross profit for the nine months of fiscal 2019 was $61.0 million, or 30% of sales, compared to $64.0 million, or 29% of sales, for the corresponding prior year period.
Operating Expenses.
Selling, general and administrative expenses for the nine months of fiscal 2019 were $40.6 million, or 20% of sales, compared to $41.4 million, or 19% of sales, in the prior year period and included a favorable currency impact of $1.2 million when translating foreign expenses to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
Operating Income.
Operating income for the nine months of fiscal 2019 was $20.4 million, compared to $22.5 million for the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
Other Income (Expense), Net.
Other income (expense), net in the nine months of fiscal 2019 increased by $1.4 million from the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, due primarily to net realized and unrealized losses from foreign currency fluctuations on payables and receivables, net of foreign currency forward exchange contracts.
The effective tax rate for the nine months of fiscal 2019 was 28%, compared to 40% in the corresponding prior year period.
The year-over-year decrease in the effective tax rate for the nine months was primarily due to one-time charges of $2.9 million related to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
The impact of these one-time charges increased the effective tax rate by approximately 39% for the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
At July 31, 2019, we had cash and cash equivalents of $66.1 million, compared to $77.2 million at October 31, 2018.
Approximately 60% of the $66.1 million of cash and cash equivalents is denominated in U.S.
We do not believe that the indefinite reinvestment of these funds offshore impairs our ability to meet our domestic working capital needs.
The increase in working capital was primarily due to an increase in inventories and decreases in accounts payable and accrued payroll and employee benefits.
We funded these expenditures with cash on hand.
See Note 10 of Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of our credit facilities.
As of July 31, 2019, there were no borrowings under any of our credit facilities, there was $51.2 million of available borrowing capacity thereunder and we were in compliance with all covenants relating thereto.
We believe our cash position and borrowing capacity under our credit facilities provide adequate liquidity to fund our operations over the next twelve months and allow us to remain committed to our strategic plan of product innovation and targeted penetration of developing markets.
There were no material changes to our critical accounting policies during the nine months of fiscal 2019.
There have been no material changes related to our contractual obligations and commitments from the information provided in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2018.
From time to time, our subsidiaries guarantee third party payment obligations in connection with the sale of machines to customers that use financing.
We follow FASB guidance for accounting for guarantees (codified in ASC 460).
As of July 31, 2019, we had 24 outstanding third party payment guarantees totaling approximately $0.6 million.
Upon shipment of a machine, the customer assumes the risk of ownership and control.
The customer does not obtain title, however, until the customer has paid for the machine.
A retention of title clause allows us to recover the machine if the customer defaults on the financing.
We accrue liabilities under these guarantees at fair value, which amounts are insignificant.
Certain statements made in this report constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.
We expressly disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
This cautionary statement is applicable to all forward-looking statements contained in this report.
We did not repurchase any shares of our common stock in the third quarter of fiscal 2019.
This disclosure is made pursuant to Section 10A(i)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as added by Section 202 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
