PART II. OTHER INFORMATION  



 Item 1:  



Legal Proceedings   



We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims, which have arisen, in the ordinary course of business. In the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.  



 Item 1A:  



Risk Factors   



In addition to other information set forth in this Form 





10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. The risk factors described in our Annual Report on Form 



10-K remain applicable to our business. 



The risks described in our Annual Report on Form 





Trade regulations and restrictions could impact our ability to sell products to and support certain customers, which may materially adversely affect our sales and results of operations.  



We are subject to U.S. laws and regulations that limit and restrict the export of some of our products and services and may restrict our transactions with certain customers, business partners and other persons. In certain circumstances, export control and economic sanctions regulations may prohibit the export of certain products, services and technologies, and in other circumstances we may be required to obtain an export license before exporting the controlled item. We must also comply with export restrictions and laws imposed by other countries affecting trade and investments. We maintain an export compliance program but there are risks that the compliance controls could be circumvented, exposing us to legal liabilities. Compliance with these laws has not significantly limited our sales, but could significantly limit them in the future. Changes in, and responses to, U.S. trade policy could reduce the competitiveness of our products and cause our sales to drop, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  



The U.S. government from time to time has issued export restrictions that prohibit U.S. companies from exporting U.S. manufactured products, foreign manufactured products with more than 25% controlled U.S. content, as well as U.S. origin technology. For example, the U.S. Department of Commerce has restricted the access of U.S. origin technologies to certain Chinese companies by adding those companies to the Entity List under U.S. Export Administration Regulations (“EAR”). On May 16, 2019, Huawei and 68 of its affiliates, including HiSilicon, were added to the U.S. Department of Commerce Entity List under the EAR. This action by the U.S. Department of Commerce imposes new export licensing requirements on exports, 



re-exports, and 



in-country  transfers of all U.S. regulated products, software and technology to the designated Huawei entities. While most of our products are not subject to the EAR and therefore not affected by the Entity List restrictions, certain of our products are currently manufactured in the U.S. and thus subject to the Entity List restrictions. Compliance with the Entity List restrictions has not significantly impacted our sales, but could limit sales in the future. In addition, the prohibition on transfers of U.S. origin technology to Huawei could significantly limit our ability to service certain of our products sold to Huawei and our ability to engage in product development activities with Huawei and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Furthermore, Huawei’s inability to obtain products from other companies in its supply chain may adversely impact Huawei’s demand for our products. Huawei or other foreign customers affected by future U.S. government sanctions or threats of sanctions may respond by developing their own solutions to replace our products or by adopting our foreign competitors’ solutions. Also, our controls related to Entity List compliance could be circumvented, exposing us to legal liabilities. Even if such restrictions are lifted, any financial or other penalties or continuing export restrictions imposed on Huawei could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 



 Item 2:  



Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds   



In January 2018, our Board of Directors cancelled the December 2016 stock repurchase program and authorized a new stock repurchase program for up to $1.5 billion of common stock. We intend to repurchase $500 million in 2019. During the nine months ended September 29, 2019, we repurchased 8.8 million shares of common stock for $368.8 million at an average price of $41.93 per share. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we repurchased 13.8 million shares of common stock for $562.3 million at an average price of $40.62 per share. The cumulative repurchases under the $1.5 billion stock repurchase program as of September 29, 2019 totaled 30.4 million shares of common stock for $1,192.3 million at an average price per share of $39.18.  





Table of Contents 







Includes approximately two thousand shares at an average price of $50.83 withheld from employees for the payment of taxes.   



We satisfy U.S. federal and state minimum withholding tax obligations due upon the vesting and the conversion of restricted stock units into shares of our common stock, by automatically withholding from the shares being issued, a number of shares with an aggregate fair market value on the date of such vesting and conversion that would satisfy the minimum withholding amount due.  



 Item 4:  



Mine Safety Disclosures   



Not Applicable  



 Item 6:  



Exhibits   







Table of Contents 



SIGNATURES  



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.  





