ITEM 3.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
We are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and marketable equity security prices.
To mitigate these risks, we utilize derivative financial instruments, such as foreign currency hedges.
All of the potential changes noted below are based on sensitivity analyses performed on our financial position as of March 31, 2018.
Actual results may differ materially.
As of March 31, 2018, we had an investment portfolio of fixed income securities of $1.66 billion.
These securities, as with all fixed income instruments, are subject to interest rate risk and will decline in value if market interest rates increase.
If market interest rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 100 bps from levels as of March 31, 2018, the fair value of the portfolio would have declined by $17.2 million.
In November 2017, we entered into a Credit Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) for a $750.0 million five-year unsecured revolving credit facility (the “Revolving Credit Facility”), which replaced our prior Credit Agreement.
Subject to the terms of the Credit Agreement, the Revolving Credit Facility may be increased in an amount up to $250.0 million in the aggregate.
As of March 31, 2018 we had outstanding $225.0 million aggregate principal amount of borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility.
We elected to pay interest on the borrowed amount under the Revolving Credit Facility at the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) plus a spread.
The spread ranges from 100 bps to 175 bps based on the adjusted credit rating.
The fair value of the borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility is subject to interest rate risk only to the extent of the fixed spread portion of the interest rates which does not fluctuate with change in interest rates.
We are also obligated to pay an annual commitment fee of 15 bps on the daily undrawn balance of the Revolving Credit Facility which is also subject to an adjustment in conjunction with our credit rating downgrades or upgrades.
The annual commitment fee ranges from 10 bps to 25 bps on the daily undrawn balance of the Revolving Credit Facility, depending upon the then effective credit rating.
As of March 31, 2018, if LIBOR-based interest rates increased by 100 bps, the change would increase our annual interest expense annually by approximately $2.2 million as it relates to our borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility.
Additionally, as of March 31, 2018, if our credit ratings were downgraded to be below investment grade, the maximum potential increase to our annual interest expense for the Revolving Credit Facility, using the highest range of the ranges discussed above, is estimated to be approximately $1.7 million.
See Note 4, “Marketable Securities,” to the condensed consolidated financial statements in Part I, Item 1; Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, “Liquidity and Capital Resources,” in Part I, Item 2; and Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a description of recent market events that may affect the value of the investments in our portfolio that we held as of March 31, 2018.
As of March 31, 2018, we had net forward and option contracts to sell $94.6 million in foreign currency in order to hedge certain currency exposures (see Note 14, “Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,” to the condensed consolidated financial statements for additional details).
If we had entered into these contracts on March 31, 2018, the U.S. dollar equivalent would have been $96.8 million.
A 10% adverse move in all currency exchange rates affecting the contracts would decrease the fair value of the contracts by $31.5 million.
However, if this occurred, the fair value of the underlying exposures hedged by the contracts would increase by a similar amount.
Accordingly, we believe that, as a result of the hedging of certain of our foreign currency exposure, changes in most relevant foreign currency exchange rates should have no material impact on our income or cash flows.
ITEM 3.DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIES
None.
