ITEM 3.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

We are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and marketable equity security prices.
To mitigate these risks, we utilize derivative financial instruments, such as foreign currency hedges.
All of the potential changes noted below are based on sensitivity analysis performed on our financial position as of September 30, 2018.
Actual results may differ materially.
As of September 30, 2018, we had an investment portfolio of fixed income securities of $1.20 billion.
These securities, as with all fixed income instruments, are subject to interest rate risk and will decline in value if market interest rates increase.
If market interest rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 100 bps from levels as of September 30, 2018, the fair value of the portfolio would have declined by $10.0 million.
In November 2017, we entered into a Credit Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) for a $750.0 million five-year unsecured Revolving Credit Facility (the “Revolving Credit Facility”), which replaced our prior Credit Agreement.
Subject to the terms of the Credit Agreement, the Revolving Credit Facility may be increased in an amount up to $250.0 million in the aggregate.
As of September 30, 2018, we do not have any outstanding floating rate debts that are subject to an increase in interest rates.
We are obligated to pay an annual commitment fee of 12.5 bps on the daily undrawn balance of the Revolving Credit Facility which is subject to an adjustment in conjunction with our credit rating downgrades or upgrades.
The annual commitment fee ranges from 10 bps to 25 bps on the daily undrawn balance of the Revolving Credit Facility, depending upon the then effective credit rating.
As of September 30, 2018, if our credit ratings were downgraded to be below investment grade, the maximum potential increase to our annual commitment fee for the Revolving Credit Facility, using the highest range of the ranges discussed above, is estimated to be approximately $0.6 million.
See Note 5, “Marketable Securities,” to the condensed consolidated financial statements in Part I, Item 1; Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, “Liquidity and Capital Resources,” in Part I, Item 2; and Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a description of recent market events that may affect the value of the investments in our portfolio that we held as of September 30, 2018.
As of September 30, 2018, we had net forward and option contracts to sell $72.2 million in foreign currency in order to hedge certain currency exposures (see Note 15, “Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,” to the condensed consolidated financial statements for additional details).
If we had entered into these contracts on September 30, 2018, the U.S. dollar equivalent would have been $63.6 million.
A 10% adverse move in all currency exchange rates affecting the contracts would decrease the fair value of the contracts by $26.2 million.
However, if this occurred, the fair value of the underlying exposures hedged by the contracts would increase by a similar amount.
Accordingly, we believe that, as a result of the hedging of certain of our foreign currency exposure, changes in most relevant foreign currency exchange rates should have no material impact on our results of operations or cash flows.
As of September 30, 2018, we had forward contracts to sell $500.0 million in treasury securities in order to hedge certain interest rate exposures (see Note 15, “Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,” to the condensed consolidated financial statements for additional details).
A 10% adverse move in interest rates affecting the contracts would decrease the fair value of the contracts by $16.9 million.
However, if this occurred, the fair value of the underlying exposures hedged by the contracts would increase by a similar amount.
Accordingly, we believe that, as a result of the hedging of certain of our interest rate exposure, changes in most relevant interest rates should have no material impact on our results of operations or cash flows.
