The interim condensed consolidated financial statements are unaudited and are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America for interim financial information, and rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
A summary of the Company’s significant accounting policies is included in Note 1 to the audited consolidated financial statements of the Company’s fiscal 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Significant changes to our accounting policies as a result of adopting ASU-2014-09 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” (Topic 606) are discussed below.
The Company recognizes revenue when it satisfies the performance obligation in its customer contracts or purchase orders.
For customer contracts with multiple performance obligations, the Company allocates the transaction price and any discounts to each performance obligation based on relative standalone selling prices.
For digital signage products, installation is not a separate performance obligation as the product and installation is the combined item promised in digital signage contracts.
The Company is not always responsible for installation of products it sells and has no post-installation responsibilities other than standard warranties.
Installation revenue is recognized over time as our customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided through the installation process.
Legacy products include lighting fixtures utilizing light sources other than LED technology and printed two and three dimensional graphic products.We are in the business of designing, manufacturing and marketing lighting, graphics and technology solutions for both indoor and outdoor applications.
Fiscal 2019 first nine months net sales of $247,330,000 decreased $11.3 million or 4% as compared to first nine months fiscal 2018 net sales of $258,614,000.
There was a $20.2 million goodwill impairment charge in fiscal 2019 and a $28.0 million goodwill impairment charge in fiscal 2018.
Adjusted operating income for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 of $3.2 million decreased $5.4 million from adjusted fiscal 2018 operating income of $8.6 million.
The Company believes it is appropriate to evaluate its performance after making adjustments to the as-reported U.S. GAAP operating income, net income, and earnings per share.
The reconciliation of reported earnings per share to adjusted earnings per share may not produce identical amounts due to rounding differences and due to the difference between basic and dilutive weighted average shares outstanding in the computation of earnings per share.
The reconciliation of reported earnings per share to adjusted earnings per share may not produce identical amounts due to rounding differences and due to the difference between basic and dilutive weighted average shares outstanding in the computation of earnings per share.
The Company also elected not to run any quarter-end promotional programs in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to several promotional programs which were conducted at the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
Gross profit of $12,331,000 in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased $3.6 million or 23% from the same period of fiscal 2018 and decreased from 25.7% to 23.2% as a percentage of Lighting Segment net sales (customer plus inter-segment net sales).The foregoing description of the Fourth Amendment does not purport to be complete.