The accompanying consolidated financial statements, in the opinion of management, include all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring accruals, necessary for a fair presentation of the results for the interim periods presented.
For further information, refer to the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018.
The Company’s results for the three and six-month periods ended March 31, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results for the entire 2019 fiscal year.
References to the second quarters of 2019 and 2018 represent the fiscal quarters ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Our significant accounting policies are included in Note 1 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2018.
On October 1, 2018, we adopted ASU No.
Significant changes to our policies resulting from the adoption are provided below.
We recorded a $4.2 million adjustment to increase retained earnings to reflect the cumulative impact of adopting this standard at the beginning of fiscal year 2019, primarily related to certain long-term contracts our Filtration and Technical Packaging segments have that converted to the cost-to-cost method for revenue recognition.
A reconciliation of the financial statement line items impacted for the three and six months ended March 31, 2019 under ASC 606 to the prior accounting standards is provided in Note 14.
Revenue is recognized when control of the goods or services promised under the contract is transferred to the customer either at a point in time (e.g., upon delivery) or over time (e.g., as we perform under the contract).
A performance obligation is a promise to transfer a distinct good or service to a customer and represents the unit of accounting for revenue recognition.
For contracts with multiple performance obligations, the expected consideration, or the transaction price, is allocated to each performance obligation identified in the contract based on the relative standalone selling price of each performance obligation.
Revenue is then recognized for the transaction price allocated to the performance obligation when control of the promised goods or services underlying the performance obligation is transferred.
Payment terms with customers vary by the type and location of the customer and the products or services offered.
Arrangements with customers that include payment terms extending beyond one year are not significant.
Approximately 52% of the segment’s revenues (approximately 19% of consolidated revenues) are accounted for over time as the product does not have an alternative use and the Company has an enforceable right to payment for costs incurred plus a reasonable margin or the inventory is owned by the customer.
The contracts may contain multiple products, which are capable of being distinct as the customer could benefit from each product on its own or together with other readily available resources.
Each product is separately identifiable from the other products in the contract.
Therefore, each product is distinct in context of the contract and will be accounted for as a separate performance obligation.
Most of our contract modifications are for products that are not distinct from the existing contract and are accounted for as part of that existing contract.
Selecting the method to measure progress towards completion for the commercial and military contracts requires judgment and is based on the nature of the products or service to be provided.
We generally use the cost-to-cost method to measure progress for our Filtration segment contracts the rate at which costs are incurred to fulfill a contract best depicts the transfer of control to the customer.
Under this measure, the extent of progress towards completion is measured based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to the estimated costs at completion of the performance obligation, and revenue is recorded proportionally as costs are incurred based on an estimated profit margin.
Certain of our long-term contracts contain incentive fees that can increase the transaction price.
These variable amounts generally are awarded upon achievement of certain performance metrics, program milestones or cost targets and can be based upon customer discretion.
Total contract cost is estimated utilizing current contract specifications and expected engineering requirements.
Our cost estimation process is based on the professional knowledge and experience of engineers and program managers along with finance professionals.
Under the typical payment terms of our long term fixed price contracts, the customer pays us either performance-based or progress payments.
Performance-based payments represent interim payments based on quantifiable measures of performance or on the achievement of specified events or milestones.
Progress payments are interim payments of costs incurred as the work progresses.
Amounts billed and due from our customers are classified in Accounts receivable, net.
For short term fixed price and cost-type contracts, we are generally paid within a short period of time.
This method recognizes the cumulative effect of changes on current and prior periods with the impact of the change from inception-to-date recorded in the current period.
Anticipated losses on contracts are recognized in full in the period in which the losses become probable and estimable.
Products accounted for under this guidance include the construction and installation of complex test chambers to a buyer’s specifications that provide its customers with the ability to measure and contain magnetic, electromagnetic and acoustic energy.
The goods and services related to each installed test chamber are not distinct due to the significant amount of integration provided and each installed chamber is accounted for as a single performance obligation.
Selecting the method to measure progress towards completion for these contracts requires judgment and is based on the nature of the products and service to be provided.
We use milestones to measure progress for our Test segment contracts because it best depicts the transfer of control to the customer that occurs as we incur costs on our contracts.
Total contract cost is estimated utilizing current contract specifications and expected engineering requirements.
Our cost estimation process is based on the professional knowledge and experience of engineers and program managers along with finance professionals.
Under the typical payment terms of our fixed price contracts, the customer pays us either performance-based or progress payments.
Performance-based payments represent interim payments based on quantifiable measures of performance or on the achievement of specified events or milestones.
Progress payments are interim payments of costs incurred as the work progresses.
Amounts billed and due from our customers are classified in Accounts receivable, net.
This method recognizes the cumulative effect of changes on current and prior periods with the impact of the change from inception-to-date recorded in the current period.
Anticipated losses on contracts are recognized in full in the period in which the losses become probable and estimable.
Approximately 20% of the segment’s revenues (approximately 6% of consolidated revenues) are recognized over time as services are performed.
The services accounted for under this method include an obligation to provide testing services using hardware and embedded software, software maintenance, training, lab testing, and consulting services.
The related contracts contain a bundle of goods and services that are integrated in the context of the contract.
Therefore, the goods and services are not distinct and the Company has a single performance obligation.
Selecting the method to measure progress towards completion for these contracts requires judgment and is based on the nature of the products and service to be provided.
We will recognize revenue as a series of distinct services based on each day of providing services (straight-line over the contract term) for our USG segment contracts.
Under the typical payment terms of our service contracts, the customer pays us in advance of when services are performed.
Included in this category, approximately 8% of the segment’s revenues (approximately 2% of consolidated revenues) are recognized based on the terms of the software contract.
For contracts that transfer a software license to the customer, revenue will be recognized at a point in time.
For contracts in software as a service (SaaS) arrangements, revenue will be recognized over time.
We will recognize revenue based on each day of providing access (straight-line over the contract term).
Under the typical payment terms of our software contracts, the customer pays us in advance of when services are performed.
Total contract cost is estimated utilizing current contract specifications and expected engineering requirements.
Our cost estimation process is based on the professional knowledge and experience of engineers and program managers along with finance professionals.
Under the typical payment terms of our contracts, the customer is billed upon shipment of product.
Amounts billed and due from our customers are classified in Accounts receivable, net.
This method recognizes the cumulative effect of changes on current and prior periods with the impact of the change from inception-to-date recorded in the current period.
Anticipated losses on contracts are recognized in full in the period in which the losses become probable and estimable.
These amounts are included in contract assets until the right to payment is no longer conditional on events other than the passage of time.
These contract assets are reclassified to receivables when the right to consideration becomes unconditional.
The Company provides compensation benefits to certain key employees under several share-based plans providing for performance-accelerated restricted shares (restricted shares), and to non-employee directors under a non-employee directors compensation plan.
Compensation expense related to the restricted share awards was $0.9 million and $2.0 million for the three and six-month periods ended March 31, 2019, respectively, and $1.0 million and $2.1 million for the corresponding periods of 2018.
There were 204,392 non-vested shares outstanding as of March 31, 2019.
Compensation expense related to the non-employee director grants was $0.3 million and $0.5 million for the three and six-month periods ended March 31, 2019, respectively, and $0.3 million and $0.5 million for the corresponding periods of 2018.
EBIT is defined as earnings before interest and taxes.
EBIT on a consolidated basis is a non-GAAP financial measure.
Management believes that EBIT is useful in assessing the operational profitability of the Company’s business segments because it excludes interest and taxes, which are generally accounted for across the entire Company on a consolidated basis.
The Company believes that the presentation of EBIT provides important supplemental information to investors to facilitate comparisons with other companies, many of which use similar non-GAAP financial measures to supplement their GAAP results.
However, the Company’s non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to other companies’ non-GAAP financial performance measures.
The Credit Facility includes a $450 million revolving line of credit as well as provisions allowing for the increase of the credit facility commitment amount by an additional $250 million, if necessary, with the consent of the lenders.
At March 31, 2019, the Company had approximately $207.0 million available to borrow under the Credit Facility, and a $250 million increase option, in addition to $35.0 million cash on hand.
At March 31, 2019, the Company had $217.0 million of outstanding borrowings under the Credit Facility in addition to outstanding letters of credit of $8.3 million.
The Company classified $20.0 million as the current portion of long-term debt as of March 31, 2019, as the Company intends to repay this amount within the next twelve month period; however, the Company has no contractual obligation to repay such amount during the next twelve month period.
The facility is secured by the unlimited guaranty of the Company’s material domestic subsidiaries and a 65% pledge of the material foreign subsidiaries’ share equity.
The financial covenants of the Credit Facility include a leverage ratio and an interest coverage ratio.
At March 31, 2019, the Company was in compliance with all debt covenants.
The second quarter 2019 effective income tax rate was 12.0% compared to 26.4% in the second quarter of 2018.
The income tax expense for the first six months of 2019 was $8.5 million compared to income tax benefit of $18.3 million for the first six months of 2018.
The income tax expense in the second quarter and first six months of 2019 was favorably impacted by tax planning strategies to increase foreign tax credits claimed retrospectively.
The Company reduced the valuation allowance for excess foreign tax credits by $2.3 million and recorded an amended return receivable of $0.2 million which favorably impacted the second quarter and year-to-date effective tax rate by 12.1% and 5.8%, respectively.
In the first quarter of 2018, the Company recorded a $2.3 million provisional estimate of the income tax effects of the future repatriation of the cumulative earnings of its foreign subsidiaries which unfavorably impacted the year-to-date effective tax rate by 8.9%.
An additional $7.5 million pension contribution for the 2017 plan year was approved during the second quarter of 2018 increasing the value of the deferred tax liability by $1.0 million.
This favorable adjustment, net of the $0.3 million unfavorable impact to the 2017 Domestic Production Deduction, favorably impacted the second quarter and year-to-date effective tax rate by 5.8% and 3.0%, respectively.
The income tax expense in the second quarter and first six months of 2018 was also unfavorably impacted by the cancellation of debt income triggered by the dissolution of a foreign subsidiary increasing the second quarter and year-to-date effective tax rate by 1.5% and 0.8%, respectively.
The Company is exposed to market risk related to changes in interest rates and selectively uses derivative financial instruments, including forward contracts and swaps, to manage these risks.
In 2018, the Company entered into three interest rate swaps with a notional amount of $150 million to hedge some of its exposure to variability in future LIBOR-based interest payments on variable rate debt.
The Company expects hedging gains or losses to be essentially offset by losses or gains on the related underlying exposures.
All derivative instruments are reported in either accrued expenses or other receivables on the balance sheet at fair value.
For derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges, the gain or loss on the derivative is deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income until recognized in earnings with the underlying hedged item.
The interest rate swaps entered into during 2018 were not designated as cash flow hedges and, therefore, the gain or loss on the derivative is reflected in earnings each period.
 ·Level 1 – inputs to the valuation methodology are quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets.
 ·Level 2 – inputs to the valuation methodology include quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, and inputs that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the financial instrument.
The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, receivables, inventories, payables, debt and other current assets and liabilities approximate fair value because of the short maturity of those instruments.
Valuation was based on third party evidence of similarly priced derivative instruments.
The Company’s nonfinancial assets such as property, plant and equipment, and other intangible assets are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis; however they are subject to fair value adjustments in certain circumstances, such as when there is evidence that an impairment may exist.
The table below also includes a reconciliation of the disaggregated revenue within our reportable segments.
These remaining obligations include amounts that have been formally appropriated under contracts with the U.S. Government, and exclude unexercised contract options and potential orders under ordering-type contracts such as Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite Quantity contracts.
At March 31, 2019, we had $436.1 million in remaining performance obligations of which we expect to recognize revenues of 83% in the next twelve months.
Assets and liabilities related to our contracts with customers are reported on a contract-by-contract basis at the end of each reporting period.
At March 31, 2019, contract assets and liabilities totaled $100.5 million and $55.5 million, respectively.
Upon adoption of ASC 606 on October 1, 2018, contract assets and liabilities related to our contracts with customers were $87 million and $51 million, respectively.
During the first six months of 2019, we recognized approximately $30 million in revenues that were included in the contract liabilities balance at the adoption date.
2016-062, Leases (Topic 842), which, among other things, requires an entity to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclose key information about leasing arrangements.
This standard will increase an entities’ reported assets and liabilities.
The Company is currently assessing the impact of this standard on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
2016-16, Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory, which eliminates the exception for all intra-entity sale of assets other than inventory.
This standard is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017.
There was no significant impact to the Company’s consolidated financial statements as a result of adopting this new standard.
