fls.txt



item1.txt
The Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), as defined in Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 270, for interim financial information and in accordance with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation S-X.
At September 30, 2018 and March 31, 2018, the total amount of restricted cash included in “Other noncurrent assets, net” in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets was approximately $1 million and $2 million, respectively.
Restricted cash was included with cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period amounts shown in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the six months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017.
As a result of adopting Topic 606, the Company now recognizes revenue for the license component of all its on-premise software arrangements at the point-in-time control of the software license is transferred to the customer, rather than ratably over the term of the contract.
ASU 2016-16 was adopted by the Company when effective in first quarter of fiscal year 2019 using the modified retrospective method of adoption.
The adoption of this standard did not have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
2016-02 (“ASU 2016-02”), Leases (Topic 842), with amendments in 2018, requiring a lessee to recognize assets and liabilities on its consolidated balance sheet for leases with accounting lease terms of more than 12 months.
The new standard states that a lessee will recognize a lease liability for the obligation to make lease payments and a right-of-use asset for the right to use the underlying asset for the lease term.
ASU 2016-02 will be effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 and requires the modified retrospective method of adoption, with an option to recognize the cumulative effect of applying the new standard as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.
Although the Company is currently evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-02 will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures, the Company currently expects that most of its operating lease commitments will be subject to the new standard and recognized as operating lease liabilities and right-of-use assets upon adoption.
ASU 2017-04 eliminates Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test requiring the assessment of fair value of individual assets and liabilities of a reporting unit to measure goodwill impairments.
Upon adoption of this new standard, goodwill impairments will be the amount by which a reporting unit's carrying value exceeds its fair value.
ASU 2017-04 will be effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021 and requires a prospective method of adoption.


item2.txt
On July 11, 2018, the Company, Broadcom Inc. (“Broadcom”), and Collie Acquisition Corp., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Broadcom (“Merger Sub”) entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”), pursuant to which Merger Sub was merged with and into the Company, with the Company surviving the Merger and becoming a wholly owned subsidiary of Broadcom.
Under the Merger Agreement, at the effective time of the Merger, each issued and outstanding share of Company common stock (other than shares that were (i) owned or held in treasury by the Company or owned by Broadcom or Merger Sub and (ii) owned by any wholly owned subsidiary of Broadcom or of the Company) was cancelled and automatically converted into the right to receive $44.50 in cash, without interest.
Refer to Note 2, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers,” and Note 3, “Impact of Adopting Topic 606,” in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the changes in our policies for revenue recognition and commissions, and the required disclosures related to the impact of adopting Topic 606.
Mainframe Solutions operating margin was consistent primarily due to an increase in Mainframe Solutions revenue, partially offset by pre-merger costs related to the Merger with Broadcom.
•Enterprise Solutions revenue increased primarily due to an increase in SaaS revenue, partially offset by a decrease in revenue from our Enterprise Solutions products recognized on an upfront basis and an unfavorable foreign exchange effect of $4 million.
Enterprise Solutions operating margin increased primarily due to lower acquisition-related costs from prior period acquisitions, partially offset by pre-merger costs related to the Merger with Broadcom, and an increase in Enterprise Solutions revenue.
Refer to Note 2, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers,” and Note 3, “Impact of Adopting Topic 606,” in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the changes in our policies for revenue recognition and commissions, and the required disclosures related to the impact of adopting Topic 606.
The following tables present revenue and expense line items reported in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations for the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2019, both as reported under Topic 606 and Topic 605, and for the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2018 as reported under Topic 605, and the period-over-period dollar and percentage changes for those line items.
Excluding the impact from the adoption of Topic 606 of $150 million, total revenue for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 increased $11 million compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to an increase in Mainframe Solutions revenue and SaaS revenue within our Enterprise Solutions segment, partially offset by an unfavorable foreign exchange effect of $10 million.
Excluding the impact from the adoption of Topic 606 of $264 million, total revenue for the first half of fiscal 2019 increased $38 million compared with the first half of fiscal 2018 primarily due to an increase in Mainframe Solutions revenue and SaaS revenue within our Enterprise Solutions segment, as well as a favorable foreign exchange effect of $10 million.
During the first half of fiscal 2019, we executed a total of 22 license agreements with incremental contract values in excess of $10 million each, for an aggregate contract value of $583 million.
During the first half of fiscal 2018, we executed a total of 18 license agreements with incremental contract values in excess of $10 million each, for an aggregate contract value of $351 million.
The period over period increase for both the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2019 was primarily due to some license agreements renewing earlier than their original expiration dates.
However, in accordance with Topic 606, the license and maintenance revenue on renewed contracts is deferred until the original contract expiration dates, which cause a difference in the amount of bookings and revenue recognized for the period.
Software licenses and maintenance revenue for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018 due to the adoption of Topic 606 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Under the supervision and with the participation of the Company’s management, including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, the Company has evaluated the effectiveness of its disclosure controls and procedures, as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”).


part2.txt
Item 1.


