 Item 2.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  









   ·    Sales adjusted for certain items that impact the year-over-year analysis, which includes the impact of certain acquisitions by adjusting Avnet’s prior periods to include the sales of acquired businesses, as if the acquisitions had occurred at the beginning of the earliest period presented. Sales taking into account these adjustments are referred to as “organic sales.” 









 Management believes that providing this additional information is useful to readers to better assess and understand operating performance, especially when comparing results with prior periods or forecasting performance for future periods, primarily because management typically monitors the business both including and excluding these adjustments to GAAP results. Management also uses these non-GAAP measures to establish operational goals and, in many cases, for measuring performance for compensation purposes. However, any analysis of results on a non-GAAP basis should be used as a complement to, and in conjunction with, results presented in accordance with GAAP.  





 Table of Contents  



 OVERVIEW  



 Organization  



 Avnet, Inc. (the “Company” or “Avnet”), is a global technology solutions company with an extensive ecosystem delivering design, product, marketing and supply chain expertise for customers at every stage of the product lifecycle. Avnet transforms ideas into intelligent solutions, reducing the time, cost and complexities of bringing products to market around the world. Founded in 1921 and incorporated in New York in 1955, the Company works with over 1,400 technology suppliers to serve 2.1 million customers in more than 140 countries.  





 Results of Operations  



 Executive Summary  



 Sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 were $5.09 billion, an increase of 9.2% from sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 of $4.66 billion. The increase in sales was due to increased sales in both EC and PF. Sales in constant currency increased year over year by 9.9% with both EC and PF contributing to the increase.   



 Gross profit margin for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased 63 basis points compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2018. EC gross profit margin decreased year over year primarily due to a higher percentage of sales coming from the lower-margin Asia region. PF gross profit margin decreased year over year primarily driven by changes in product mix and the impact of foreign currency exchange rates.  



 Avnet operating income margin was 2.9% in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared with 1.4% in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. Both periods included amortization and restructuring, integration and other expenses. Excluding these expenses from both periods, adjusted operating income margin was 3.6% in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to 2.9% in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. The increase in operating income margin is primarily due to the year over year growth in sales and a reduction in expenses as a result of the Company’s restructuring and integration efforts, partially offset by the decline in gross profit margin.  



 Sales  



 The following table presents reported and organic sales growth rates between fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018 for the first quarter of fiscal 2019.   







 Table of Contents  



 Sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 were $5.09 billion, an increase of 9.2%, or $428.9 million, from the prior year first quarter sales of $4.66 billion. Sales in constant currency increased 9.9% over the prior year first quarter with both operating groups contributing to this increase.  



 EC sales of $4.71 billion in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased $403.6 million or 9.4% from the prior year first quarter sales of $4.31 billion. This increase was primarily driven by increased sales in the Asia and Americas regions. PF sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 were $379.1 million, an increase of $25.4 million or 7.2% from the prior year first quarter sales of $353.7 million driven by growth in all three regions.   



 As discussed in Note 2 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, the adoption of the new revenue recognition accounting standard during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 did not have a material impact on the amounts of sales reported or the comparability of sales and gross profit margins year over year.  



 Gross Profit and Gross Profit Margins  



 Gross profit for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was $636.8 million, an increase of $24.2 million, or 3.9%, from the first quarter of fiscal 2018 gross profit of $612.6 million primarily driven by the increase in sales. Gross profit margin decreased 63 basis points to 12.5% from the first quarter of fiscal 2018 gross profit margin of 13.1%, with both operating groups contributing to the decrease.  



 EC gross profit margin decreased year over year primarily due to a sales mix shift to the lower-margin Asia region. Asia sales represented approximately 43% of the total EC sales in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared with approximately 40% in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. PF gross profit margin decreased year over year primarily driven by customer mix and the impact of foreign currency exchange rates.   



 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses  







 Restructuring, Integration and Other Expenses  



 As a result of management’s focus on improving operating efficiencies and further integrating the acquisition of PF, the Company has incurred certain restructuring costs. In addition, the Company incurred integration, accelerated depreciation and other costs. Integration costs are primarily related to the integration of acquired businesses including PF, the integration of certain regional and global businesses including Avnet after the TS divestiture, and incremental costs incurred as part of the consolidation, relocation, and closure of warehouse and office facilities. Accelerated depreciation relates to the incremental depreciation expense incurred related to the shortening of the estimated useful life of the Company’s enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system in the Americas compared to depreciation expense based on the original useful life of such ERP system. Other costs consist primarily of any other miscellaneous costs that relate to restructuring, integration and other expenses.  





 Table of Contents  



 The Company recorded restructuring, integration and other expenses of $14.8 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2019. The Company recorded $7.5 million of restructuring costs in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 in order to realize approximately $7.2 million in expected annualized operating cost savings once such restructuring actions initiated before the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2019 are completed. During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company incurred integration costs of $2.9 million, accelerated depreciation of $3.1 million, other costs of $1.5 million and a reversal of $0.2 million for changes in estimates for costs associated with prior year restructuring actions. The after tax impact of restructuring, integration and other expenses were $11.5 million and $0.10 per share on a diluted basis.  



 Comparatively, in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, restructuring, integration and other expenses from continuing operations were $46.4 million. The after tax impact of restructuring, integration, and other expenses was $29.6 million and $0.24 per share on a diluted basis.   



 See Note 14 “Restructuring expenses” to the Company’s consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.   



 Operating Income  



 Operating income for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was $146.8 million, an increase of $82.2 million, or 127.4%, from the first quarter of fiscal 2018 of $64.6 million. The year over year increase in operating income was primarily driven by the reduction in selling, general and administrative expenses and lower restructuring, integration and other expenses as compared to the prior year first quarter. Adjusted operating income for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was $182.5 million, an increase of $46.0 million, or 33.7%, from the first quarter of fiscal 2018.  



  EC operating income margin increased 20 basis points year over year to 3.4% and PF operating income margin increased 153 basis points year over year to 10.8%. The improvement in operating income margin at both operating groups was primarily due to the organic sales growth and from operating cost reductions related to restructuring and integration activities.   



 Interest and Other Financing Expenses, and Other Income (Expense), Net  



 Interest and other financing expenses in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was $30.1 million, an increase of $8.1 million or 36.7%, as compared with interest and other financing expenses of $22.0 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. The increase in interest and other financing expenses in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily related to increased expenses in Asia to finance working capital needs and from lower interest income from investments in cash equivalents between the fiscal years.  



 During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company had $1.9 million of other expense, net, as compared with $18.9 million of other income, net, in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company had foreign currency losses primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar compared to certain currencies, partially offset by income related to the Company’s pension plans. In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company had foreign currency gains primarily due to the strengthening of the Euro compared to the U.S. Dollar and British Pound and other income related to the Company’s pension plans.   



 Income Tax Expense  



 The Company’s effective tax rate on its income before income taxes from continuing operations was 27.3% in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared with 5.4% in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company’s effective tax rate was unfavorably impacted primarily by (i) an adjustment to the provisional transition tax expense estimate recorded under the requirements of the Act and (ii) increases in unrecognized tax benefits, partially offset by (iii) an adjustment to the provisional deferred tax impacts of the Act and (iv) the mix of income in lower tax jurisdictions. During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company’s effective tax rate was favorably impacted primarily by (i) the mix of income in lower tax jurisdictions and (ii) the release of unrecognized tax benefit reserves primarily due to the negotiation of a favorable outcome in a foreign jurisdiction.  





 Table of Contents  



 Income from Discontinued Operations  



 Income from discontinued operations was $0.2 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to $0.1 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.  



 Net Income  





 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  



 Cash Flow  



 Cash Flow from Operating Activities  





 Cash Flow from Financing Activities  



 During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company made net repayments of $40.0 million under the Securitization Program. Additionally, the Company repaid $50.3 million under the Company’s Credit Facility and $1.2 million from borrowings of various bank credit facilities. During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company paid dividends on common stock of $22.9 million and repurchased $149.1 million of common stock. Additionally, included in other, net is approximately $17.6 million of cash received from the exercises of stock options.  



 During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company received net proceeds of $28.0 million under the Securitization Program. During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company repaid $24.9 million from borrowings of various bank credit facilities and $92.5 million under the Company’s Credit Facility. During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company paid dividends on common stock of $22.0 million and repurchased $68.1 million of common stock.  



 Cash Flow from Investing Activities  



 During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company used $41.0 million for capital expenditures primarily related to warehouse and facilities, computer hardware and software purchases and information system development costs compared to $26.7 million for capital expenditures in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company used $14.7 million of cash for acquisitions, which is net of the cash acquired.   





 Table of Contents  



 During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company received $120.0 million of cash from investing activities – discontinued operations from the sale of the TS business. During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company generated $45.4 million of cash from investing activities – discontinued operations as a result of the sale of marketable securities obtained through the sale of the TS business.  



 Contractual Obligations  



 For a detailed description of the Company’s long-term debt and lease commitments for the next five years and thereafter, see Long-Term Contractual Obligations appearing in Item 7 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018. With the exception of the Company’s debt transactions discussed herein, there are no material changes to this information outside of normal borrowings and repayments of long-term debt and operating lease payments. The Company does not currently have any material non-cancellable commitments for capital expenditures or inventory purchases.  



 Financing Transactions  



 See Note 5, “Debt” to the Company’s consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on financing transactions including the Credit Facility, the Securitization Program, and other outstanding debt as of September 29, 2018. The Company was in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Facility and the Securitization Program as of September 29, 2018.  



 The Company has various lines of credit, financing arrangements and other forms of bank debt in the U.S. and various foreign locations to fund the short-term working capital, foreign exchange, overdraft and letter of credit needs of its wholly owned subsidiaries. Outstanding borrowings under such forms of debt at the end of first quarter of fiscal 2019 was $0.6 million.  



 Liquidity  



 The Company held cash and cash equivalents of $365.9 million as of September 29, 2018, of which $330.6 million was held outside the United States. As of June 30, 2018, the Company held cash and cash equivalents of $621.1 million, of which $545.3 million was held outside of the United States.  



 As of the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company had a combined total borrowing capacity of $1.75 billion under the Credit Facility and the Securitization Program. There were no borrowings outstanding and $3.0 million in letters of credit issued under the Credit Facility and $65.0 million in borrowings outstanding under the Securitization Program, resulting in approximately $1.68 billion of total availability as of September 29, 2018. Availability under the Securitization Program is subject to the Company having sufficient eligible trade accounts receivable to support desired borrowings. The Company currently expects to utilize availability under credit facilities to support working capital and other general corporate purposes to the extent such incremental borrowings do not impact the Company’s investment grade credit rating. During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company had an average daily balance outstanding of approximately $65.0 million under the Securitization Program. During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company had an average daily balance outstanding of approximately $10.3 million under the Credit Facility and approximately $166.0 million under the Securitization Program.  



 During periods of weakening demand in the electronic components industry, the Company typically generates cash from operating activities. Conversely, the Company is more likely to use operating cash flows for working capital requirements during periods of higher growth. The Company generated $296.5 million in cash flows from operating activities over the trailing four fiscal quarters ended September 29, 2018 from continuing operations.   





 Table of Contents  



 Liquidity is subject to many factors, such as normal business operations as well as general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, and regulatory factors that are beyond the Company’s control. To the extent the cash balances held in foreign locations cannot be remitted back to the U.S. in a tax efficient manner, those cash balances are generally used for ongoing working capital, capital expenditure needs and to support acquisitions, and are currently expected to be permanently reinvested outside the U.S. The Company is still evaluating the impact of repatriating any additional foreign cash as a result of the Act. In addition, local government regulations may restrict the Company’s ability to move funds among various locations under certain circumstances. Management does not believe such restrictions would limit the Company’s ability to pursue its intended business strategy. Management believes that Avnet’s available borrowing capacity and the Company’s expected ability to generate operating cash flows in the future will be sufficient to meet its future liquidity needs. The Company also may issue debt or equity securities in the future and management believes the Company will have adequate access to the capital markets, if needed.  



 Historically the Company has made, and expects to continue to make, strategic investments through acquisition activity to the extent the investments strengthen Avnet’s competitive position, further its business strategies and meet management’s return on capital thresholds. The Company also expects to make capital expenditures, including expenditures for warehouse facilities and information technology related tools and systems. Additionally, as the Company integrates PF, the Company expects to use cash for restructuring, integration and other expenses.  



 In addition to continuing to make investments in acquisitions, as of September 29, 2018, the Company may repurchase up to an aggregate of $615.2 million of shares of the Company’s common stock through a $2.45 billion share repurchase program approved by the Board of Directors. The Company may repurchase stock from time to time at the discretion of management, subject to strategic considerations, market conditions and other factors. The Company may terminate or limit the share repurchase program at any time without prior notice. The timing and actual number of shares repurchased will depend on a variety of factors such as share price, corporate and regulatory requirements, and prevailing market conditions. Additionally, the Company currently expects to pay quarterly cash dividends on shares of its common stock, subject to approval of the Board of Directors. During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Board of Directors approved a dividend of $0.20 per share, which resulted in $22.9 million of dividend payments during the quarter.   



 Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements  



 See Note 1, “Basis of presentation and new accounting pronouncements” to the Company’s consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a description of recently issued accounting pronouncements.  



 Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  



 The Company’s Board of Directors has approved the repurchase of up to $2.45 billion of the Company’s common stock under the Company’s share repurchase program including an increase in August 2018 of $500.0 million. The following table includes the Company’s monthly purchases of the Company’s common stock during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, under the share repurchase program, which is part of a publicly announced plan.  







 Table of Contents  



 Item 6.Exhibits  











 Table of Contents  



 SIGNATURE  



 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  





        AVNET, INC.   





             Thomas Liguori   



             Chief Financial Officer    



