item1.txt
Our centralized manufacturing and support organizations, such as facilities, procurement and logistics, provide support to our operating segments, including those in Other.
Leases are included in other long-term assets, accrued expenses and other liabilities, and other long-term liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Lease assets represent our right to use underlying assets for the lease term, and lease liabilities represent our obligations to make lease payments over the lease term.
On the commencement date, leases are evaluated for classification, and assets and liabilities are recognized based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
We use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement in determining the present value of lease payments.
Operating lease expense is generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Our lease values include options to extend or not to terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise such options.
Leases with a lease term of 12 months or less are not recorded on the balance sheet; we recognize lease expense for these leases on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
In connection with the issuance of long-term debt, we may use financial derivatives such as treasury-rate lock agreements that are recognized in AOCI and amortized over the life of the related debt.
The fair values of our derivative financial instruments were not material as of March 31, 2019.
Our investments in cash equivalents, short-term investments and certain long-term investments, as well as our deferred compensation liabilities, are carried at fair value.
The carrying values for other current financial assets and liabilities, such as accounts receivable and accounts payable, approximate fair value due to the short maturity of such instruments.
The carrying value of our long-term debt approximates the fair value as measured using broker-dealer quotes, which are Level 2 inputs.
The reported results for 2019 reflect the application of the new accounting guidance, while the reported results for prior periods are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historical accounting under ASC 840, Leases.
In addition, we elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance that allowed us to apply prior conclusions related to lease definition, classification and initial direct costs.
The adoption of the new standard resulted in the recognition of $229 million of lease liabilities with corresponding lease assets as of January 1, 2019.
This standard requires entities to use a current lifetime expected credit loss methodology to measure impairments of certain financial assets.
We are currently evaluating the potential impact of this standard, but we do not expect it to have a material impact on our financial position and results of operations.
As of March 31, 2019, and December 31, 2018, unrealized gains and losses associated with our available-for-sale investments were not material.
We did not recognize any credit losses related to available-for-sale investments for the first three months of 2019 and 2018.
Proceeds from sales, redemptions and maturities of short-term available-for-sale investments were $1.58 billion and $1.46 billion for the first quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Level 1 – Uses unadjusted quoted prices that are available in active markets for identical assets or liabilities as of the reporting date.
Level 2 – Uses inputs other than Level 1 that are either directly or indirectly observable as of the reporting date through correlation with market data, including quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets and quoted prices in markets that are not active.
Level 2 also includes assets and liabilities that are valued using models or other pricing methodologies that do not require significant judgment since the input assumptions used in the models, such as interest rates and volatility factors, are corroborated by readily observable data.
As of March 31, 2019, we had a variable-rate revolving credit facility from a consortium of investment-grade banks that allows us to borrow up to $2 billion until March 2024.
In the first quarter of 2019, we issued an aggregate principal amount of $750 million of fixed-rate, long-term debt due in 2039.
We conduct certain operations in leased facilities and also lease a portion of our data processing and other equipment.
In addition, certain long-term supply agreements to purchase industrial gases are accounted for as operating leases.
Lease agreements frequently include renewal provisions and require us to pay real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance costs.


item2.txt
We invest more than $1 billion each year to develop new products for our portfolio, which includes tens of thousands of products.
Our strategic focus, and where we invest the majority of our resources, is on Analog and Embedded Processing, with a particular emphasis on designing and selling those products into the industrial and automotive markets, which we believe represent the best growth opportunities.
Analog and embedded processing products sold into industrial and automotive markets provide long product life cycles, intrinsic diversity and less capital-intensive manufacturing, which we believe offer stability, profitability and strong cash generation.
This business model is the foundation of our capital management strategy, which is based on our belief that free cash flow growth, especially on a per-share basis, is important for maximizing shareholder value over the long term.
We also believe that free cash flow will be valued only if it is productively invested in the business or returned to shareholders.
The combined effect of these sustainable competitive advantages is that over time we have gained market share in Analog and Embedded Processing and have grown free cash flow.
In our core businesses, Analog revenue declined 2% and Embedded Processing declined 14% from the same quarter a year ago.
Our cash flow from operations of $7.2 billion for the trailing 12 months again underscored the strength of our business model.
Free cash flow for the trailing 12 months was $6.0 billion and represents 38.4% of revenue.
For an explanation of free cash flow and the term “annual operating tax rate,” see the Non-GAAP financial information section.
Revenue of $3.59 billion decreased $195 million, or 5%, due to lower revenue from Embedded Processing and Analog.
Gross profit of $2.26 billion was down $186 million, or 8%, due to lower revenue and reduced factory loadings.
Operating profit was $1.38 billion, or 38.4% of revenue, compared with $1.55 billion, or 40.9% of revenue.
Accounts receivable were $1.44 billion, an increase of $233 million compared with the end of 2018.
Inventory was $2.13 billion, a decrease of $86 million from the end of 2018.
Additional sources of liquidity are cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and a variable-rate, revolving credit facility.
Cash flows from operating activities for the first three months of 2019 and 2018 were $1.11 billion.
Investing activities for the first three months of 2019 provided $1.17 billion compared with $266 million in the year-ago period.
Capital expenditures were $251 million compared with $189 million in the year-ago period and were primarily for semiconductor manufacturing equipment in both periods.
We had sales of short-term investments, net of purchases, that provided cash proceeds of $1.44 billion compared with $459 million in the year-ago period.
Financing activities for the first three months of 2019 used $998 million compared with $1.32 billion in the year-ago period.
Dividends paid were $724 million compared with $611 million in the year-ago period, reflecting an increase in the dividend rate, partially offset by fewer shares outstanding.
We used $1.15 billion to repurchase 11.7 million shares of our common stock compared with $873 million used in the year-ago period to repurchase 8.2 million shares.
Employee exercises of stock options provided cash proceeds of $151 million compared with $178 million in the year-ago period.
We had $3.72 billion of cash and cash equivalents and $366 million of short-term investments as of March 31, 2019.
We believe that free cash flow and the associated ratios provide insight into our liquidity, our cash-generating capability and the amount of cash potentially available to return to shareholders, as well as insight into our financial performance.
An evaluation as of the end of the period covered by this report was carried out under the supervision and with the participation of management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934).
All open-market purchases during the quarter were made under the authorization from our board of directors to purchase up to $6.0 billion of additional shares of TI common stock announced September 21, 2017.
On September 20, 2018, our board of directors authorized the purchase of an additional $12.0 billion of our common stock.


part2.txt
All open-market purchases during the quarter were made under the authorization from our board of directors to purchase up to $6.0 billion of additional shares of TI common stock announced September 21, 2017.
On September 20, 2018, our board of directors authorized the purchase of an additional $12.0 billion of our common stock.
In addition to open-market purchases, 403,016 shares of common stock were surrendered by employees to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock units.


