item1.txt
The revenue information is not necessarily indicative of the geographic area in which the end applications containing our products are ultimately consumed because our products tend to be shipped to the locations where our customers manufacture their products.
Revenue from products shipped into China, including Hong Kong, was $1.6 billion and $1.5 billion in the three months ended March 31, 2018, and March 31, 2017, respectively.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) and on the same basis as the audited financial statements included in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, except for the effects of adopting Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).
The Consolidated Statements of Income, Comprehensive Income and Cash Flows for the periods ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, and the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of March 31, 2018, are not audited but reflect all adjustments that are of a normal recurring nature and are necessary for a fair statement of the results of the periods shown.
Certain information and note disclosures normally included in annual consolidated financial statements have been omitted pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Because the consolidated interim financial statements do not include all of the information and notes required by GAAP for a complete set of financial statements, they should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes included in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Until the products are pulled for use or sale by the customer or distributor, we retain control over the products’ disposition, including the right to pull back or relocate the products.
In connection with the issuance of long-term debt, we may use financial derivatives such as treasury-rate lock agreements that are recognized in AOCI and amortized over the life of the related debt.
The fair values of our derivative financial instruments were not material as of March 31, 2018.
The carrying values for other current financial assets and liabilities, such as accounts receivable and accounts payable, approximate fair value due to the short maturity of such instruments.
We adopted Accounting Standards Codification Topic 606 (ASC 606) as of January 1, 2018, using the modified retrospective transition method applied only to contracts that were not completed as of the adoption date.
The reported results for 2018 reflect the application of the new accounting guidance, while the reported results for prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historical accounting under ASC 605, Revenue Recognition (ASC 605).
Our contract assets are primarily related to our rights to consideration for satisfied or partially satisfied performance obligations on our royalty agreements for which payment has not been received as of the reporting date.
We recognized an increase to opening retained earnings of $206 million, net of taxes, as of January 1, 2018, due to the cumulative impact of adopting ASC 606, with the impact primarily related to our fixed payment patent licensing agreements that were not completed as of the adoption date.
A contract asset of $283 million and deferred tax liabilities of $55 million were recorded as of January 1, 2018, related to the transition period adjustments.
As of March 31, 2018, we had contract assets of $273 million.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, our contract assets were reduced by $10 million, due to $14 million of cash received offset by $4 million of income recognized.
This standard requires all leases that have a term of over 12 months to be recognized on the balance sheet with the liability for lease payments and the corresponding right-of-use asset initially measured at the present value of amounts expected to be paid over the term.
Costs for a financing lease will be disaggregated and recognized as both an operating expense (for the amortization of the right-of-use asset) and interest expense (for interest on the lease liability).
This standard will be effective for our interim and annual periods beginning January 1, 2019, and must be applied on a modified retrospective basis.
In March 2018, the FASB tentatively approved an optional transition method to initially account for the impact of the adoption with a cumulative-effect adjustment to the January 1, 2019, rather than January 1, 2017, financial statements.
We plan to adopt the standard effective January 1, 2019, and expect to elect this optional transition method.
We are currently evaluating the potential impact of this standard on our financial position, but we do not expect it to have a material impact on our results of operations.
This standard requires entities to use a current lifetime expected credit loss methodology to measure impairments of certain financial assets.
There are other provisions within the standard that affect how impairments of other financial assets may be recorded and presented, and that expand disclosures.
This standard will be effective for our interim and annual periods beginning January 1, 2020, and permits earlier application but not before periods beginning January 1, 2019.
We are currently evaluating the potential impact of this standard, but we do not expect it to have a material impact on our financial position and results of operations.
This standard should be applied either in the period of adoption or retrospectively to each period (or periods) in which the effects of the Tax Act are recognized.
We plan to adopt this standard during the interim period in which we complete our accounting for the tax effects of the enactment of the Tax Act, applying the guidance to the period of adoption.
As of March 31, 2018, and December 31, 2017, unrealized gains and losses associated with our available-for-sale investments were not material.
We did not recognize any credit losses related to available-for-sale investments for the three months ended March 31, 2018, and March 31, 2017.
For the three months ended March 31, 2018, and March 31, 2017, the proceeds from sales, redemptions and maturities of short-term available-for-sale investments were $1.46 billion and $1.12 billion, respectively.
Level 1 – Uses unadjusted quoted prices that are available in active markets for identical assets or liabilities as of the reporting date.
Level 2 – Uses inputs other than Level 1 that are either directly or indirectly observable as of the reporting date through correlation with market data, including quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets and quoted prices in markets that are not active.
Level 2 also includes assets and liabilities that are valued using models or other pricing methodologies that do not require significant judgment since the input assumptions used in the models, such as interest rates and volatility factors, are corroborated by readily observable data.
As of March 31, 2018, we have recognized $21 million of restructuring charges for severance and benefit costs related to the previously reported reorganization of the product lines within our two reportable segments.
As of March 31, 2018, we have recognized $33 million of restructuring charges for severance and benefits costs, as well as accelerated depreciation, related to the phase out of a manufacturing facility in Greenock, Scotland.
The restructuring accrual balances are primarily reported as a component of either Accrued expenses and other liabilities or Other long-term liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets, depending on the expected timing of payment.


item2.txt
Analog and embedded processing products sold into industrial and automotive markets provide long product life cycles, intrinsic diversity, and less capital-intensive manufacturing, which we believe offer stability, profitability and strong cash generation.
This business model is the foundation of our capital management strategy, which is based on our belief that free cash flow growth, especially on a per share basis, is important for maximizing shareholder value over the long term.
We also believe that free cash flow will be valued only if it is productively invested in the business or returned to shareholders.
The combined effect of these sustainable competitive advantages is that over time we have gained market share in Analog and Embedded Processing and have grown free cash flow.
Revenue increased 11 percent from the same quarter a year ago.
Our cash flow from operations of $5.7 billion for the trailing 12 months again underscored the strength of our business model.
Free cash flow for the trailing 12 months was up 17 percent from a year ago to $4.9 billion, or 32.1 percent of revenue.
We have returned $5.1 billion to owners in the past 12 months through stock repurchases and dividends, consistent with our strategy to return to owners all of our free cash flow.
For an explanation of free cash flow and the term “annual operating tax rate,” see the Non-GAAP financial information section.
Revenue increased $387 million, or 11 percent, due to higher revenue from Analog and Embedded Processing.
Gross profit of $2.45 billion was up $303 million, or 14 percent, due to higher revenue and lower manufacturing costs.
Operating profit was $1.55 billion, or 40.9 percent of revenue, compared with $1.25 billion, or 36.8 percent of revenue.
Accounts receivable were $1.45 billion, an increase of $176 million compared with the end of 2017.
Cash flows from operating activities for the first three months of 2018 were $1.11 billion, an increase of $317 million from the year-ago period.
Investing activities for the first three months of 2018 provided $266 million compared with $267 million in the year-ago period.
Capital expenditures were $189 million compared with $127 million in the year-ago period and were primarily for semiconductor manufacturing equipment in both periods.
We had proceeds from sales of short-term investments, net of purchases, that provided cash of $459 million compared with $363 million in the year-ago period.
Financing activities for the first three months of 2018 used $1.32 billion compared with $1.14 billion in the year-ago period.
Dividends paid were $611 million compared with $500 million in the year-ago period, reflecting an increase in the dividend rate, partially offset by fewer shares outstanding.
We used $873 million to repurchase 8.2 million shares of our common stock compared with $550 million used in the year-ago period to repurchase 7.1 million shares.
Employee exercises of stock options provided cash proceeds of $178 million compared with $161 million in the year-ago period.
We believe that free cash flow and the associated ratios provide insight into our liquidity, our cash-generating capability and the amount of cash potentially available to return to shareholders, as well as insight into our financial performance.
An evaluation as of the end of the period covered by this report was carried out under the supervision and with the participation of management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934).
All open-market purchases during the quarter were made under the authorization from our board of directors to purchase up to $7.5 billion of additional shares of TI common stock announced September 17, 2015.


part2.txt
All open-market purchases during the quarter were made under the authorization from our board of directors to purchase up to $7.5 billion of additional shares of TI common stock announced September 17, 2015.
On September 21, 2017, our board of directors authorized the purchase of an additional $6.0 billion of our common stock.
In addition to open-market purchases, 467,544 shares of common stock were surrendered by employees to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock units.


