Science Applications International Corporation (collectively, with its consolidated subsidiaries, the “Company”) is a leading provider of technical, engineering and enterprise information technology (IT) services primarily to the U.S. government.
Each of the Company’s three customer facing operating segments is focused on providing the Company’s comprehensive technical and enterprise IT service offerings to one or more agencies of the U.S federal government.
The accompanying financial information has been prepared by the Company pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission for interim reporting purposes.
As a result of the acquisition of Engility, the Company holds a 50.1% majority interest in Forfeiture Support Associates J.V.
The non-controlling interest reported on the condensed and consolidated balance sheets represents the portion of FSA's equity that is attributable to the non-controlling interest.
The Company’s operating cycle may be greater than one year and is measured by the average time intervening between the inception and the completion of contracts.
The fair value is an estimate of the amount that the Company would pay or receive as of a measurement date if the agreements were transferred to a third party or canceled.
Inventory is substantially comprised of finished goods inventory purchased for resale to customers, such as tires and lubricants, and is valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value, generally using the average method.
The recognition, measurement and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee primarily will depend on its classification as either a finance lease or operating lease.
The Company elected certain practical expedients provided under the standard, including the package of practical expedients, which allows entities not to reassess whether existing contracts are or contain leases.We use the terms "SAIC," the “Company,” “we,” “us” and “our” to refer to Science Applications International Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.
As one of the largest pure-play technical service providers to the U.S. government, we serve markets of significant scale and opportunity.
Our primary customers are the departments and agencies of the U.S. government.
Our long history of serving the U.S. government has afforded us the ability to develop strong and longstanding relationships with some of the largest customers in the markets we serve.
In fiscal year 2019, we generated greater than 95% of our revenues from contracts with the U.S. government, including subcontracts on which we perform.
Our business performance is affected by the overall level of U.S. government spending and the alignment of our offerings and capabilities with the budget priorities of the U.S. government.
These bills are funded at increased levels for defense and non-defense spending based on a bi-partisan agreement reached in February 2018 to lift caps set by the Budget Control Act of 2011 (BCA), providing additional business opportunities for the Company.
However, beyond GFY 2019, there remains uncertainty on whether, and by how much, discretionary spending will be increased above the budget caps put in place in the BCA.Item 1.