Item 1A.
A discussion of our risk factors can be found in Item 1A of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2018.
The information below includes additional and updated risks relating to our $350,000 aggregate principal amount 5.750% senior unsecured notes due 2027 (the Notes) and other indebtedness.
The risks described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K are not the only risks we face.
As of June 29, 2019, we had $468,357 outstanding under our senior secured credit facilities.
Giving pro forma effect to the issuance of the Notes on July 16, 2019, as of June 29, 2019 we would have had $350,000 in aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes outstanding, approximately $174,000 outstanding under our Tranche B term loan facility and no amounts drawn under our revolving credit facility.
See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for changes to our capital structure incurred subsequent to the end of the third quarter of fiscal year 2019.
In addition, the credit agreement that governs our senior secured credit facilities and the indenture that governs the Notes impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including limitations on our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness (including guarantee obligations); incur liens; engage in mergers, consolidations and certain other fundamental changes; dispose of assets; make advances, investments and loans; engage in sale and leaseback transactions; engage in certain transactions with affiliates; pay dividends, distributions and other payments in respect of capital stock; repurchase or retire capital stock, warrants or options; and engage in other actions that we may believe are advisable or necessary for our business.
Further, our tranche B term loan facility is also subject to mandatory prepayments in certain circumstances and requires a prepayment of a certain percentage of our excess cash flow.
There are no assurances that we will maintain a level of liquidity sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium and interest on our indebtedness.
If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness.
In the event of a default under any of our indebtedness, the holders of the defaulted debt could elect to declare all the funds borrowed to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, which in turn could result in cross-defaults under our other indebtedness.
The lenders under our senior secured credit facilities could also elect to terminate their commitments thereunder and cease making further loans, and such lenders could institute foreclosure proceedings against their collateral, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.
Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly.
Our senior secured credit facilities bear, and other indebtedness we may incur in the future may bear, interest at a variable rate.
As a result, at any given time interest rates on the senior secured credit facilities and any other variable rate debt could be higher or lower than current levels.
If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on our variable rate indebtedness will increase even though the amount borrowed remains the same, and therefore net income and associated cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, will correspondingly decrease.
Increases in interest rates may directly impact the amount of interest we are required to pay and reduce earnings accordingly.
Although the credit agreement that governs our senior secured credit facilities and the indenture that governs the senior unsecured notes contain restrictions on incurring additional indebtedness and entering into certain types of other transactions, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions.
Additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial.
In addition, these restrictions also do not prevent us from incurring obligations, such as certain trade payables, that do not constitute indebtedness as defined under our debt instruments.
Item 2.
We purchase common stock from time to time to mitigate dilution related to new shares issued for employee compensation such as stock options, restricted stock units, performance restricted stock units and for employee stock purchase plan activity, as well as to return to shareholders capital not immediately required to fund ongoing operations.
Our Board of Directors approved, and on February 11, 2011 announced, a purchase authorization of 2,000 shares.
The share purchase authorization has no expiration date.
We made no share purchases during the third quarter of fiscal year 2019.
As of June 29, 2019, there were 438 shares available for purchase under the existing authorization.
In connection with the pricing of the tangible equity units (TEUs) sold in our public offering in fiscal year 2016, we purchased capped calls from third party banking institutions (Capped Calls) for $7,935.
On June 13, 2018, we amended the agreements with third party banking institutions for the outstanding Capped Calls (Capped Call Agreements) to modify the timing of settlement to be only upon expiration for all outstanding Capped Calls.
As of June 29, 2019 the range of shares of our common stock to be received for the outstanding Capped Calls was a minimum of 0 shares to a maximum of 268 shares, subject to market conditions.
See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on our equity instruments.
