The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of MTS Systems Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
Significant intercompany account balances and transactions have been eliminated.
The terms "MTS," "we," "us," "the Company" or "our" in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, unless the context otherwise requires, refer to MTS Systems Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
We have prepared the interim unaudited consolidated financial statements included herein pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States (U.S.) Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP).
GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported.
The accompanying consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2018 filed with the SEC.
We have a 5-4-4 week, quarterly accounting cycle with our fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to September 30.
Fiscal year 2019 ending on September 28, 2019 will consist of 52 weeks.
The following accounting policies have been updated since our fiscal year 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), followed by related amendments on September 30, 2018 under the modified retrospective transition method.
Our new revenue recognition accounting policy and disclosures relative to this guidance are included in Note 3.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued ASU No.
2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), followed by related amendments (collectively, "the new lease standard"), which requires lessees to recognize most leases on the balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by those leases.
Under the new lease standard, a company recognizes a right-of-use asset, representing the right to use the underlying asset for the lease term, and a corresponding lease liability for all leases with terms greater than 12 months.
The new guidance requires enhanced disclosures regarding the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from a company's leases.
Adoption of the new lease standard is required for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2020.
The new guidance is required to be adopted using a modified retrospective transition method, and an optional transition method may be elected to use the effective date as the date of initial application on transition.
We intend to adopt the new lease standard for our fiscal year 2020 under the optional transition method with an effective date of September 29, 2019.
We are currently planning to elect the package of practical expedients to not reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs, and we are currently evaluating the other practical expedients available under the new guidance.
We continue to make progress with preparation for the adoption and implementation of the new lease standard, including assessing the completeness of our lease arrangements, evaluating practical expedients and accounting policy elections, revising our lease-related accounting policies, assessing impacts to controls, and implementing a lease software solution.
of Income and Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows is being evaluated.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), followed by related amendments (collectively, "the new revenue standard" or "ASC 606") to provide a single, comprehensive revenue recognition model for all contracts with customers.
Under the new revenue standard, a company recognizes revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration a company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services.
Determination of when and how revenue is recognized is based on a five-step analysis.
We adopted the new revenue standard on September 30, 2018 for our fiscal year 2019 under the modified retrospective transition method.
The comparative information has not been restated and continues to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods.
See Note 3 for our new revenue recognition accounting policy and disclosures relative to this guidance.
2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740), Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory, which requires companies to account for the income tax effects of intercompany sales and transfers of assets other than inventory when the transfer occurs.
transfers of assets until the asset has been sold to an outside party or otherwise recognized.
We adopted the new revenue standard on September 30, 2018 for our fiscal year 2019 under the modified retrospective transition method.
We applied the new revenue standard to all contracts which were not completed as of the effective date and elected not to apply contract modification guidance retrospectively.
Revenue is recognized when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for transferring those goods or providing those services.
A performance obligation is a promise in a contract to transfer a distinct good or service to the customer and is the unit of account under the new revenue standard.
A contract's transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation and recognized as revenue when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied.
For contracts with multiple performance obligations, we allocate the contract's transaction price to each performance obligation using our best estimate of the standalone selling price of each distinct good or service in the contract.
See Note 16 for further information on reportable segments.
Our Sensors segment (Sensors) manufactures and sells high-performance sensors which provide measurements of vibration, pressure, position, force and sound in a variety of applications.
Our Sensors contracts generally have a single performance obligation which is satisfied at a point in time.
The performance obligation is a stand-alone sensor product, accessory, service or software license.
Sensors contracts are generally fixed-price purchase order fulfillment contracts, and the transaction price is equal to the observable consideration in the contract.
Revenue is recognized when obligations under the terms of the contract with our customer are satisfied; generally this occurs with the transfer of control upon product shipment (as evidenced by shipment or delivery terms) or with the performance of the service.
For our Sensors contracts with customers, payment terms are generally within 90 days.
For certain high-volume contracts, we are entitled to receive an advance payment.
See Note 16 for further information on our reportable segments and intersegment revenue.
Contract balances are classified as assets or liabilities on a contract-by-contract basis at the end of each reporting period.
Contract liabilities represent payments received from customers at contract inception and at milestones per contract provisions.
Conversely, when billing occurs subsequent to revenue recognition for contracts recognized over time, balances are recorded in unbilled accounts receivable, net in our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
As customers are billed, unbilled accounts receivable balances are transferred to accounts receivable, net in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
1 See Note 18 for additional information regarding acquisitions.
For contracts recognized over time, we estimate the profit on a contract as the difference between the total estimated revenue and expected costs to complete a contract and recognize that profit over the life of the contract.
These assumptions include labor productivity and availability, the complexity of the work to be performed, the cost and availability of materials, and internal and subcontractor performance.
Pricing is established at or prior to the time of sale with our customers, and we record sales at the agreed-upon selling price.
In general, variable consideration in our contracts relates to the entire contract.
As a result, the variable consideration is allocated proportionately to all performance obligations.
We recognize adjustments in estimated profit on contracts under the cumulative catch-up method.
Revenue and profit in future periods of contract performance is recognized using the adjusted estimate.
If at any time the estimate of contract profitability indicates an anticipated loss on the contract, we recognize the total loss in the period it is identified.
Contract modifications that are for goods or services that are not distinct from the existing contract, due to the significant integration with the original product or service provided, are accounted for as if they were part of that existing contract.
When the right of return exists, we recognize revenue for the transferred products at the expected amount of consideration for which we will be entitled.
We adopted the new revenue standard effective September 30, 2018 under the modified retrospective transition method which impacted inventories, net.
See Note 3 for the impact of this adoption on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Sales of our products and systems are subject to limited warranty obligations that are included in customer contracts.
For sales that include installation services, warranty obligations generally extend for a period of 12 to 24 months from the date of either shipment or acceptance based on the contract terms.
Product obligations generally extend for a period of 12 to 24 months from the date of purchase.
Certain products offered in our Sensors segment include a lifetime warranty.
Under the terms of these warranties, we are obligated to repair or replace any components or assemblies deemed defective due to workmanship or materials.
We record general warranty provisions based on an estimated warranty expense percentage applied to current period revenue.
The percentage applied reflects our historical warranty claims experience over the preceding 12-month period.
Both the experience percentage and the warranty liability are evaluated on an ongoing basis for adequacy.
1 See Note 18 for additional information regarding acquisitions.
Future amortization amounts presented above are estimates.
1 Based on observable market transactions of spot currency rates and forward currency rates on equivalently-termed instruments.
Carrying amounts of the financial assets and liabilities are equal to the fair value.
See Note 8 for additional information on derivative financial instruments.
2 Based on London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) and spot rates.
Carrying amount of the financial asset is equal to the fair value.
See Note 8 for additional information on derivative financial instruments.
We measure certain financial instruments at fair value on a nonrecurring basis.
These assets primarily include goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets acquired either as part of a business acquisition, individually or with a group of other assets, as well as property and equipment.
These assets were initially measured and recognized at amounts equal to the fair value determined as of the date of acquisition or purchase subject to changes in value only for foreign currency translation.
In the event any of these assets were to become impaired, we would recognize an impairment loss equal to the amount by which the carrying value of the reporting unit, impaired asset or asset group exceeds its estimated fair value.
Fair value measurements of the reporting units associated with our goodwill balances and our indefinite-lived intangible assets are estimated at least annually in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year for purposes of impairment testing if a quantitative analysis is performed.
Certain financial instruments are not measured at fair value but are recorded at carrying amounts approximating fair value based on their short-term nature or variable interest rate.
These financial instruments include cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, unbilled accounts receivable, accounts payable and short-term borrowings.
1 The fair value of the 8.75% tangible equity units (TEUs) is based on the most recently quoted price for the outstanding securities, adjusted for any known significant deviations in value.
The estimated fair value of these long-term obligations is not necessarily indicative of the amount that would be realized in a current market exchange.
See Note 13 for additional information on the TEUs.
2 The fair value of the tranche B term loan is based on the most recently quoted market price for the outstanding debt instrument, adjusted for any known significant deviations in value.
The estimated fair value of the debt obligation is not necessarily indicative of the amount that would be realized in a current market exchange.
We periodically assess whether our currency exchange contracts are effective and, when a contract is determined to be no longer effective as a hedge, we discontinue hedge accounting prospectively.
As of March 30, 2019 and September 29, 2018, we had outstanding cash flow hedge currency exchange contracts with gross notional U.S. dollar equivalent amounts of $26,576 and $39,856, respectively.
Upon netting offsetting contracts to sell foreign currencies against contracts to purchase foreign currencies, irrespective of contract maturity dates, the net notional U.S. dollar equivalent amount of contracts outstanding was $24,840 and $29,315 as of March 30, 2019 and September 29, 2018, respectively.
As of March 30, 2019, the net market value of the foreign currency exchange contracts was a net asset of $236, consisting of $314 in assets and $78 in liabilities.
As of September 29, 2018, the net market value of the foreign currency exchange contracts was a net asset of $816, consisting of $989 in assets and $173 in liabilities.
As of March 30, 2019, the amount projected to be reclassified from AOCI into earnings in the next 12 months was a net gain of $193.
The maximum remaining maturity of any forward or optional contract as of March 30, 2019 was 1.6 years.
On October 20, 2016, we entered into a floating to fixed interest rate swap agreement to mitigate our exposure to interest rate increases related to a portion of our tranche B term loan facility.
The total notional amount of the interest rate swap was $225,000 as of March 30, 2019.
The swap agreement expires April 3, 2021.
As a result of this agreement, every month we pay fixed interest at 1.256% in exchange for interest received at one month U.S. LIBOR.
The market value of the interest rate swap as of March 30, 2019 was an asset of $3,684.
The interest rate swap has been designated as a cash flow hedge.
As a result, changes in the fair value of the interest rate swap are recorded in AOCI within shareholders' equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
As of March 30, 2019, the amount projected to be reclassified from AOCI into earnings in the next 12 months was a net gain of $2,378.
We also use foreign currency derivative contracts to maintain the functional currency value of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional foreign currencies.
As of March 30, 2019 and September 29, 2018, we had outstanding foreign currency balance sheet derivative contracts with gross notional U.S. dollar equivalent amounts of $108,957 and $90,816, respectively.
Upon netting offsetting contracts by counterparty banks to sell foreign currencies against contracts to purchase foreign currencies, irrespective of contract maturity dates, the net notional U.S. dollar equivalent amount of contracts outstanding as of March 30, 2019 and September 29, 2018 was $34,789 and $28,271, respectively.
As of March 30, 2019 and September 29, 2018, the net market value of the foreign exchange balance sheet derivative contracts was a net asset of $97 and $91, respectively.
We have a credit agreement with U.S. Bank National Association and HSBC Bank USA, National Association as Co-Documentation Agents, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association as Syndication Agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
as Administrative Agent and JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A.
and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC as Joint Bookrunners and Joint Lead Arrangers (the Credit Agreement).
The proceeds of the Revolving Credit Facility can be drawn upon to refinance existing indebtedness, for working capital and for other general corporate purposes, up to a maximum of $150,000.
The Term Facility amortizes in equal quarterly installments equal to 1% of the original principal amount.
The proceeds of the Term Facility were used for financing the acquisition of PCB Group, Inc. (PCB) in fiscal year 2016.
Borrowings on the Revolving Credit Facility were used for financing the acquisition of E2M Technologies B.V. (E2M) in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.
In the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, in conjunction with the E2M acquisition, we entered into a third amendment to the Credit Agreement to increase the borrowing capacity on the Revolving Credit Facility from $120,000 to $150,000 and extend the expiration date of the Revolving Credit Facility from July 5, 2021 to July 5, 2022.
During the six months ended March 30, 2019, we incurred debt financing costs of $541 as a result of this amendment which were capitalized in current maturities of long-term debt, net and long-term debt, less current maturities, net in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
ABR Borrowings and Swingline Loans made in U.S. dollars under the Credit Agreement bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the ABR plus the Applicable Rate (as defined in the Credit Agreement).
The Applicable Rate for any ABR Revolving Loans will be based upon the leverage ratio applicable on such date.
Eurocurrency Borrowings made under the Credit Agreement bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the Adjusted LIBOR Rate plus the Applicable Rate.
The Applicable Rate for any Eurocurrency Revolving Loan is based upon the leverage ratio applicable on such date.
Based on our leverage ratio as of March 30, 2019, the Applicable Rate for Eurocurrency Revolving Loans was 3.00%.
As of March 30, 2019, there was $80,391 of outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility which is included in long-term debt, less current maturities, net in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
As of September 29, 2018, there were no outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility.
We had outstanding letters of credit drawn from the Revolving Credit Facility totaling $19,976 and $20,448 as of March 30, 2019 and September 29, 2018, respectively, leaving approximately $49,633 and $99,552, respectively, of unused borrowing capacity.
Commitment fees are payable on the unused portion of the Revolving Credit Facility at rates between 0.25% and 0.40% based on our leverage ratio.
During the three and six months ended March 30, 2019, commitment fees incurred totaled $52 and $124, respectively.
The Credit Agreement governing the Term Facility requires us to prepay outstanding term loans, subject to certain exceptions, depending on the leverage ratio with (a) up to 50% of the our annual Excess Cash Flow (as defined in the Credit Agreement) and (b) 100% of the net cash proceeds of (i) certain asset sales and casualty and condemnation events, subject to reinvestment rights and certain other exceptions; and (ii) any incurrence or issuance of certain debt, other than debt permitted under the Credit Agreement.
Under the Credit Agreement, we are subject to customary affirmative and negative covenants, including, among others, restrictions on our ability to incur debt, create liens, dispose of assets, make investments, loans, advances, guarantees, and acquisitions, enter into transactions with affiliates, and enter into any restrictive agreements and customary events of default (including payment defaults, covenant defaults, change of control defaults and bankruptcy defaults).
The Credit Agreement also contains financial covenants, including the ratio of consolidated total indebtedness to adjusted consolidated earnings before income, taxes, depreciation and amortization (Adjusted EBITDA), as defined in the Credit Agreement, as well as the ratio of Adjusted EBITDA to consolidated interest expense.
As of March 30, 2019 and September 29, 2018, we were in compliance with these financial covenants.
See Note 7 for additional information on the fair value of the tranche B term loan and the TEU debt.
On October 20, 2016, in order to mitigate our exposure to interest rate increases on our variable rate debt, we entered into a variable to fixed amortizing interest rate swap.
See Note 8 for additional information on derivative financial instruments.
We compensate our officers, directors and employees with stock-based compensation under the 2017 Stock Incentive Plan (the 2017 Plan) approved by our shareholders and administered under the supervision of our Board of Directors.
As of March 30, 2019, a total of 958 shares were available for issuance under the 2017 Plan.
We make an annual stock grant under the 2017 Plan of stock options, restricted stock units and performance restricted stock units, as well as stock grants throughout the fiscal year.
For fiscal years 2019, 2018 and 2017, the annual stock grant occurred in December 2018, April 2018 and April 2017, respectively.
During the six months ended March 30, 2019, 231 stock options were granted at a weighted average fair value of $9.91.
During the six months ended March 30, 2018, no stock options were granted.
We award restricted stock units to directors and key employees and performance restricted stock units to key employees.
During the six months ended March 30, 2019, we granted 124 restricted stock units and 40 performance restricted stock units to directors, officers and employees.
During the six months ended March 30, 2018, we granted 24 restricted stock units and no performance restricted stock units.
The fair value of the restricted stock units and performance restricted stock units granted during the six months ended March 30, 2019 and March 31, 2018 was $46.45 and $48.61, respectively, representing the market value of our shares as of the date of grant less the present value of estimated foregone dividends over the vesting period.
Our U.S. employees are eligible to participate in the 2012 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (2012 ESPP) approved by our shareholders.
As of March 30, 2019, 599 shares were available for issuance under the 2012 ESPP.
During the six months ended March 30, 2019 and March 31, 2018, we issued 16 and 12 shares, respectively, under the 2012 ESPP at a weighted average price per share of $34.11 and $44.03, respectively.
The weighted average expected long-term rate of return on plan assets used to determine the net periodic benefit cost for each of the three and six months ended March 30, 2019 and March 31, 2018 was 5.5%.
Excluding the impact of certain discrete benefits in the current and prior year, the effective tax rate for the six months ended March 30, 2019 and March 31, 2018 was essentially flat compared to the same prior year period.
Factors that affected the effective tax rate for the six months ended March 30, 2019 included impacts of the Tax Act, such as elimination of the domestic manufacturing deduction and the implementation of the global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI) provision.
The income tax benefit for the six months ended March 31, 2018 included certain discrete benefits of $25,378 for the estimated impact of the Tax Act.
As of March 30, 2019, we do not expect significant changes in the amount of unrecognized tax benefits during the next twelve months.
Total proceeds, net of underwriting discounts, commissions and other expenses were $110,926.
Each TEU has a stated amount of $100 per TEU and is comprised of a prepaid stock purchase contract and a senior amortizing note having a final installment payment date of July 1, 2019.
We allocated the proceeds from the issuance of the TEUs between equity and debt based on the relative fair values of the respective components of each TEU.
The fair value of the prepaid stock purchase contracts, net of underwriting discounts, commissions and other expenses, was recorded in additional paid-in capital in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The fair value of the senior amortizing note, net of underwriting discounts, commissions and other expenses, was split between current maturities of long-term debt, net and long-term debt, less current maturities, net in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Underwriting discounts, commissions and other costs directly associated with the TEU-related debt will be amortized using the effective interest rate method over the three-year term of the instrument.
1 The fair value price allocation between equity and debt for each TEU was determined using a discounted cash flow model.
If converted prior to the automatic settlement date at the option of the holder, the minimum of 1.9841 shares of our common stock are delivered to the holder of each prepaid stock purchase contract.
On the automatic settlement date, a minimum of 1.9841 shares and a maximum of 2.3810 shares of our common stock, subject to adjustment based upon the applicable market value discussed below, will be delivered to the holder of each prepaid stock purchase contract at the settlement date.
The "applicable market value" is defined as the average of the daily volume-weighted average price of the common stock on each of the 20 consecutive trading days beginning on, and including, the 23rd scheduled trading day immediately preceding July 1, 2019.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017, certain holders of our TEUs elected to early convert the equity component on 473 of our outstanding TEUs at the minimum conversion rate of 1.9841 which resulted in the issuance of 939 shares of our common stock.
During fiscal years 2019 and 2018, no holders of our TEUs elected to early convert the equity component of our outstanding TEUs.
There were 677 units of the equity component of TEUs outstanding as of both March 30, 2019 and September 29, 2018.
The amortizing senior note was issued with an initial principal amount of $27,386, or $23.8136 per TEU.
Equal quarterly cash installments of $2.1875 per amortizing note are paid, which in the aggregate are equivalent to a 8.75% cash distribution per year with respect to each $100 stated amount per TEU.
Each installment constitutes a payment of interest and partial repayment of principal.
The final installment will be paid in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019.
The 1.9841 minimum shares to be issued are included in the calculation of basic weighted average shares outstanding.
The 0.3969 difference between the minimum shares and the 2.3810 maximum shares are potentially dilutive, and accordingly, are included in our diluted earnings per share on a pro rata basis to the extent the applicable market value is higher than the reference price but less than the threshold appreciation price.
See Note 14 for additional information regarding the calculation of earnings per share.
In connection with the pricing of the TEUs sold in our public offering in fiscal year 2016, we purchased capped calls from third party banking institutions (Capped Calls) for $7,935.
The initial Capped Calls were for 2,282 equivalent shares of our common stock with a strike price of $50.40, a cap price of $58.80 and an expiration date of July 1, 2019.
The value of the Capped Calls is settled with shares of our common stock, based on the approximate market value of our common stock at such time, and could be settled as the TEUs were early converted or settled upon expiration on July 1, 2019 (Capped Call Expiration).
No Capped Calls were settled during fiscal years 2019 and 2018.
On June 13, 2018, we amended the agreements with third party banking institutions for the outstanding Capped Calls (Capped Call Agreements) to modify the timing of settlement to be only upon expiration for all outstanding Capped Calls.
The Capped Calls will be automatically settled upon Capped Call Expiration with shares of our common stock based on the average market value of our common stock as defined in the Capped Call Agreements.
The TEUs are assumed to be settled at the minimum settlement amount of 1.9841 shares per TEU when calculating weighted-average common shares outstanding for purposes of basic earnings per share.
Using the treasury stock method, diluted earnings per share includes the potentially dilutive effect of common shares issued in connection with outstanding stock-based compensation options and grants.
The potentially dilutive effect of common shares issued in connection with outstanding stock options is determined based on the average market price for the period.
Under the treasury stock method, shares associated with certain stock options have been excluded from the diluted weighted average shares outstanding calculation because the exercise of those options would lead to a net reduction in common shares outstanding or anti-dilution.
As a result, stock options to acquire 865 and 482 weighted common shares have been excluded from the diluted weighted average common shares outstanding calculation for the three months ended March 30, 2019 and March 31, 2018, respectively.
Stock options to acquire 791 and 489 weighted common shares have been excluded from the diluted weighted average common shares outstanding calculation for the six months ended March 30, 2019 and March 31, 2018, respectively.
In connection with the pricing of the TEUs, we purchased capped calls.
The capped calls will not be reflected in the calculation of diluted earnings per share until settled as they will lead to a net reduction in common shares outstanding or anti-dilution.
See Note 13 for additional information on our equity instruments.
Other comprehensive income (loss), a component of shareholders' equity, consists of foreign currency translation adjustments, gains or losses on derivative instruments and defined benefit pension plan adjustments.
2017-07 in fiscal year 2019.
In evaluating each segment's performance, our Chief Executive Officer focuses on income from operations.
reportable segments are the same as those described in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements found in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2018 and in Note 3 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Intersegment revenue is based on standard costs with reasonable mark-ups established between the reportable segments.
The allocation of purchase price consideration is considered preliminary as of March 30, 2019 with provisional amounts primarily related to inventory, intangible assets, advanced payments to customers and certain tax related items included as our allocation process has not been finalized.
The preliminary fair value of the acquired intangible assets was $43,932.
The acquired intangible assets are being amortized on a straight-line basis over the useful lives identified in the table above.
Item 1A.
A discussion of our risk factors can be found in Item 1A of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2018.
The risks described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K are not the only risks we face.
