Our testing hardware and software solutions help customers accelerate and improve design, development and manufacturing processes and are used for determining the mechanical behavior of materials, products and structures.
Our high performance sensors provide controls for a variety of applications measuring acceleration, position, vibration, motion, pressure, force and sound.
As of September 30, 2017, we had 3,500 employees and revenue of $787,955 for fiscal year 2017.
Our desire is to be the innovation leader in creating test and measurement solutions and to provide total customer satisfaction.
We believe we can create value for our customers by helping to enhance the precision, improve the reliability and create superior safety for their products, while reducing the delivery time to market for their products.
Our competitive advantages include our proprietary technology and advanced application expertise, our expansive global footprint with long-term customer relationships, our large installed base of testing equipment and our expanded presence in the rapidly growing sensors market.
•Adapt our industry-leading ground vehicle testing applications to align with emerging trends in vehicle electrification, autonomous vehicles, and simulation.
We believe that our business model supports our growth objectives, provided that we continue to move aggressively to build our infrastructure, expand our offerings and execute on opportunities with our key customers around the world.
In order to accelerate our revenue growth over the next five years, investments in infrastructure, sales support and field service capacity and capability are essential.
the impact in our first quarter of fiscal year 2018 results.
See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion of the impact of the Tax Act.
Approximately 70% of our revenue has historically been derived from customers outside of the U.S. Our financial results are principally exposed to changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the Euro, the Japanese yen and the Chinese yuan.
The discussion below quantifies the impact of foreign currency translation on our financial results for the periods discussed.
The terms "MTS," "we," "us," the "Company," or "our" in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, unless the context otherwise requires, refer to MTS Systems Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
The following table compares results of operations, separately identifying the estimated impact of currency translation and restructuring costs incurred in fiscal year 2018.
See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on restructuring and related costs.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2016, we completed the acquisition of PCB Group, Inc. (PCB).
As a result of the PCB acquisition, we incurred certain non-recurring costs during fiscal year 2017 including acquisition integration costs and a fair value adjustment on acquired PCB inventory.
Revenue for the three months ended December 30, 2017 declined by 2.6% primarily due to a decrease in Test revenue, partially offset by revenue growth in our Sensors business and the favorable impact of currency translation.
Test revenue decreased $12,923 primarily driven by lower equipment order volume in the first half of fiscal year 2017.
Current year Test revenue was also impacted by higher custom project backlog weighting which takes longer to convert into revenue.
Sensors revenue increased $7,806 primarily driven by strong demand in the Sensors position sector and continued momentum from new revenue opportunities in the Sensors test sector.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, revenue decreased 4.6%.
Gross profit for the three months ended December 30, 2017 increased 6.1% primarily due to the prior year impact from the PCB acquisition driven by a fair value adjustment on acquired inventory of $7,724 and increased current year revenue volume in Sensors, partially offset by reduced revenue volume in Test.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, the prior year fair value adjustment on acquired PCB inventory, prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, gross profit declined 5.9% and the gross margin rate declined 0.6 percentage points.
Selling and marketing expense for the three months ended December 30, 2017 increased by 5.1% primarily due to higher compensation expenses in Sensors and the unfavorable impact of currency translation.
General and administrative expense for the three months ended December 30, 2017 declined by 14.4% primarily due to prior year non-recurring China Code of Conduct investigation expenses of $1,976, prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses of $1,503, and decreased professional fees, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of currency translation.
Income from operations for the three months ended December 30, 2017 increased by 60.3% primarily due to the prior year impact from the PCB acquisition driven by a fair value adjustment on acquired PCB inventory of $7,724 and non-recurring PCB acquisition integration expenses of $1,688, prior year China investigation expenses of $1,976, increased gross profit from leverage on volume growth in Sensors, and prior year restructuring costs of $563, partially offset by decreased Test gross profit from unfavorable leverage on revenue.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, the prior year fair value adjustment on acquired PCB inventory, prior year non-recurring PCB acquisition integration expenses, prior year China investigation expenses, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, income from operations decreased 25.5%.
The increase in other income (expense), net for the three months ended December 30, 2017 was primarily driven by a decrease in losses on foreign currency transactions.
The effective tax rate for the three months ended December 30, 2017 decreased due to certain discrete benefits of $25,378 for the estimated impact of the Tax Act.
Excluding the impact of these discrete benefits, the effective tax rate for the three months ended December 30, 2017 would have been 17.9% and decreased compared to the prior year primarily due to the lower U.S. corporate tax rate under the Tax Act.
Net income and diluted earnings per share for the three months ended December 30, 2017 increased due to a reduction in the effective tax rate and discrete benefits stemming from the Tax Act, as well as increased gross profit and lower operating expenses.
The following table compares results of operations for Test, separately identifying the estimated impact of currency translation and restructuring costs incurred in fiscal year 2018.
Revenue for the three months ended December 30, 2017 decreased by 9.9% primarily driven by lower equipment order volume in the first half of fiscal year 2017.
Current year Test revenue was also impacted by higher custom project backlog weighting which takes longer to convert into revenue.
This was partially offset by the favorable impact of currency translation and growth in service revenue.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, revenue decreased 11.6%.
Gross profit for the three months ended December 30, 2017 declined by 16.4%.
Selling and marketing expense for the three months ended December 30, 2017 increased by 4.1% primarily due to increased compensation expenses and the unfavorable impact of currency translation.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, selling and marketing expense increased 1.6%.
General and administrative expense for the three months ended December 30, 2017 declined by 14.3% primarily due to prior year China investigation expenses of $1,976 and increased professional fees, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of currency translation.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, prior year China investigation expenses, and restructuring costs, general and administrative expense decreased 1.4%.
Income from operations for the three months ended December 30, 2017 declined by 52.1% primarily due to the decrease in gross profit driven by lower equipment order volume in the first half of fiscal year 2017, partially offset by prior year China investigation expenses of $1,976.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, prior year China investigation expenses and restructuring costs, income from operations decreased 55.9%.
The following table compares results of operations for Sensors, separately identifying the estimated impact of currency translation and restructuring costs incurred in fiscal year 2018.
Revenue increased by 11.5% during the three months ended December 30, 2017 primarily driven by strong demand in the Sensors position sector, continued momentum from new revenue opportunities in the Sensors test sector, and the favorable impact of currency translation, partially offset by continued weakness in the Sensors industrial sector.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, revenue increased 8.7%.
Gross profit increased by 45.7% and the gross margin rate increased 12.0 percentage points during the three months ended December 30, 2017 primarily due to the prior year fair value adjustment on acquired PCB inventory of $7,724, prior year non-recurring PCB acquisition integration expenses, leverage on increased revenue volume, the favorable impact of currency translation, and prior year restructuring costs.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, the prior year fair value adjustment on acquired PCB inventory of $7,724, prior year non-recurring PCB acquisition integration expenses, and prior year restructuring costs, gross profit increased 9.1% and the gross margin rate increased 0.2 percentage points.
Selling and marketing expense for the three months ended December 30, 2017 increased by 6.5% primarily driven by increased compensation and commission expenses and the unfavorable impact of currency translation.
General and administrative expense for the three months ended December 30, 2017 declined by 14.6% primarily driven by prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses of $1,503, prior year restructuring costs and a decrease in incentive compensation.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses and prior year restructuring costs, general and administrative expense decreased 0.5%.
Income (loss) from operations increased $12,314 in the three months ended December 30, 2017 primarily due to the prior year fair value adjustment on acquired PCB inventory of $7,724, prior year non-recurring PCB acquisition integration costs of $1,688, higher gross profit from leverage on increased revenue volume, and prior year restructuring costs of $563, partially offset by increased compensation expenses.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, the prior year fair value adjustment on acquired PCB inventory, prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, income from operations increased 23.1%.
The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to a decrease in working capital associated with fluctuations in the timing of cash receipts for advanced payments from customers, payments received on accounts receivable and unbilled accounts receivable, payments for inventory and reduced payments for accounts payable.
The decrease in cash used in investing activities was primarily due to the timing of investments in property and equipment in the current year.
We had cash and cash equivalents of $94,071 as of December 30, 2017.
Of this amount, $12,947 was located in North America, $30,442 in Europe and $50,682 in Asia.
In accordance with our investment policy, we place cash equivalent investments with issuers who have high-quality investment credit ratings.
Our investment objectives are to preserve principal, maintain liquidity and achieve the best available return consistent with our primary objectives of safety and liquidity.
As of December 30, 2017, we held no short-term investments.
As of December 30, 2017, our capital structure was comprised of $64,098 in short-term debt, $393,381 in long-term debt and $461,580 in shareholders' equity.
The Consolidated Balance Sheets also include $15,432 of unamortized debt issuance costs as of December 30, 2017.
Total interest-bearing debt at December 30, 2017 was $457,479.
Under the Credit Agreement, we are subject to customary affirmative and negative covenants, including, among others, restrictions on our ability to incur debt, create liens, dispose of assets, make investments, loans, advances, guarantees and acquisitions, enter into transactions with affiliates, and enter into any restrictive agreements and customary events of default (including payment defaults, covenant defaults, change of control defaults and bankruptcy defaults).
The Credit Agreement also contains financial covenants, including the ratio of consolidated total indebtedness to adjusted consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (Adjusted EBITDA), as defined in the Credit Agreement, as well as the ratio of Adjusted EBITDA to consolidated interest expense.
These covenants restrict our ability to pay dividends and purchase outstanding shares of common stock.
As of December 30, 2017 and September 30, 2017, we were in compliance with these financial covenants.
Shareholders' equity increased by $32,803 during the three months ended December 30, 2017 primarily due to $33,151 net income, $4,006 other comprehensive income and $1,515 stock-based compensation, partially offset by $5,337 dividends declared and $744 purchases and retirements of our common stock.
For further information, see "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" under Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017.
Information regarding new accounting pronouncements is included in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Our dividend policy is to maintain a payout ratio that allows dividends to increase in conjunction with the long-term growth of earnings per share, while sustaining dividends through economic cycles.
Our dividend practice is to target, over time, a payout ratio of approximately 25% of net earnings per share.
quarterly basis.
Forward-looking statements are qualified by some or all of these risk factors.
The following table presents repurchases of our equity securities we made during the fiscal quarter ended December 30, 2017.
We purchase common stock from time-to-time to mitigate dilution related to new shares issued as equity for employee compensation such as stock options, restricted stock units, performance restricted stock units and employee stock purchase plan activity, as well as to return to shareholders capital not immediately required to fund ongoing operations.
Our Board of Directors approved, and on February 11, 2011 announced, a 2,000 share purchase authorization.
The share purchase authorization has no expiration date.
We made no share purchases during the first quarter of fiscal year 2018.
As of December 30, 2017, there were 438 shares available for purchase under the existing authorization.
In connection with the pricing of the TEUs sold in our public offering in fiscal year 2016, we purchased capped calls from third party banking institutions (Capped Calls) for $7,935.
As of December 30, 2017 the range of shares of our common stock to be received under the outstanding Capped Calls was 0 to 293 shares, subject to market conditions.
See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
