Item 1. Financial Statements 
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of MTS Systems Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries. Significant intercompany account balances and transactions have been eliminated.
The terms "MTS," "we," "us," "the Company" or "our" in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, unless the context otherwise requires, refer to MTS Systems Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries. 
We have a 5-4-4 week, quarterly accounting cycle with our fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to September 30. Fiscal year 2019 ending on September 28, 2019 will consist of 52 weeks. Fiscal year 2018 ended on September 29, 2018 consisted of 52 weeks. 
The following accounting policies have been updated since our fiscal year 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
As described in Note 2, we adopted Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), followed by related amendments, on September 30, 2018 under the modified retrospective transition method. Our new revenue recognition accounting policy and disclosures relative to this guidance are included in Note 3.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), followed by related amendments (collectively, "the new lease standard"), which requires lessees to recognize most leases on the balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by those leases. Under the new lease standard, a company recognizes a right-of-use asset, representing the right to use the underlying asset for the lease term, and a corresponding lease liability for all leases with terms greater than 12 months. The new lease standard requires enhanced disclosures regarding the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from a company's leases. Adoption of the new lease standard is required for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2020. The new guidance is required to be adopted using a modified retrospective transition method, and an optional transition method may be elected to use the effective date as the date of initial application on transition.
We intend to adopt the new lease standard for our fiscal year 2020 under the optional transition method with an effective date of September 29, 2019. As a result, we will not adjust our comparative period financial information or make the new required lease disclosures for periods before the effective date, and we will record the impact from adoption as a cumulative-effect reduction to retained earnings as of the effective date. We are currently planning to elect the package of practical expedients to not reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs, and we are currently evaluating the other practical expedients available under the new lease standard. We continue to make progress with preparation for the adoption and implementation of the new lease standard, including assessing the completeness of our lease arrangements, evaluating practical expedients and accounting policy elections, revising our lease-related accounting policies, assessing impacts to controls, and implementing a lease software solution. We anticipate the adoption of the new lease standard will result in an increase in assets and liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. The impact on our Consolidated Statement of Income and Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows is being evaluated. We continue to evaluate the impact that these changes in methodology will have on our financial condition, results of operations and disclosures.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), followed by related amendments (collectively, "the new revenue standard" or "ASC 606"), to provide a single, comprehensive revenue recognition model for all contracts with customers. Under the new revenue standard, a company recognizes revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration a company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. Determination of when and how revenue is recognized is based on a five-step analysis. Enhanced disclosures regarding the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from a company's contracts with customers are required. 
We adopted the new revenue standard on September 30, 2018 for our fiscal year 2019 under the modified retrospective transition method. As of September 30, 2018, we recorded a cumulative-effect reduction to the opening balance of our fiscal year 2019 retained earnings of $6,227, net of tax, for the net deferral of previously recognized revenue and related cost of sales, partially offset by the capitalization and deferral of pre-contract costs. The comparative information has not been restated and continues to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods. See Note 3 for our new revenue recognition accounting policy and disclosures relative to this guidance.
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740), Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory, which requires companies to account for the income tax effects of intercompany sales and transfers of assets other than inventory when the transfer occurs. Existing guidance required companies to defer the income tax effects of intercompany transfers of assets until the asset has been sold to an outside party or otherwise recognized. We adopted the standard on a modified retrospective basis for the annual period ending September 28, 2019, including interim periods within that annual period. The adoption of this guidance had no impact on our financial condition, results of operations or disclosures.
A performance obligation is a promise in a contract to transfer a distinct good or service to the customer and is the unit of account under the new revenue standard. A contract's transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation and recognized as revenue when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied. Many of our contracts have a single performance obligation as the promise to transfer the individual goods or services is not separately identifiable from other promises in the contracts and, therefore, not distinct. In situations when our contract includes distinct goods or services that are substantially the same and have the same pattern of transfer to the customer over time, they are recognized as a series of distinct goods or services. For contracts with multiple performance obligations, we allocate the contract's transaction price to each performance obligation using our best estimate of the standalone selling price of each distinct good or service in the contract.
Our Sensors contracts generally have a single performance obligation which is satisfied at a point in time. The performance obligation is a stand-alone sensor product, accessory, service or software license. Sensors contracts are generally fixed-price purchase order fulfillment contracts, and the transaction price is equal to the observable consideration in the contract. Revenue is recognized when obligations under the terms of the contract with our customer are satisfied; generally this occurs with the transfer of control upon product shipment (as evidenced by shipment or delivery terms) or with the performance of the service. Certain contracts are measured using the as invoiced practical expedient as we have a right to consideration from a customer in an amount that corresponds directly with the value to the customer of our performance completed to date.
We disaggregate our revenue by reportable segment, sales type (product or service), the timing of recognition of revenue for transfer of goods or services to customers (point-in-time or over time), and geographic market based on the billing location of the customer. See Note 15 for further information on our reportable segments and intersegment revenue.
The timing of revenue recognition, billings and cash collections results in billed accounts receivable, unbilled accounts receivable (contract assets) and advance payments from customers (contract liabilities). Contract balances are classified as assets or liabilities on a contract-by-contract basis at the end of each reporting period. Contract liabilities represent payments received from customers at contract inception and at milestones per contract provisions. These payments are recorded in advance payments from customers and other long-term liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets (current and non-current portions, respectively) and are liquidated as revenue is recognized. Conversely, when billing occurs subsequent to revenue recognition for contracts recognized over time, balances are recorded in unbilled accounts receivable, net in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. As customers are billed, unbilled accounts receivable balances are transferred to accounts receivable, net in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
1 See Note 16 for additional information regarding acquisitions.
inception. There are no significant instances where variable consideration is constrained and not recorded at the initial time of sale.
We adopted the new revenue standard effective September 30, 2018 under the modified retrospective transition method which impacted inventories, net. See Note 3 for the impact of this adoption on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Sales of our products and systems are subject to limited warranty obligations that are included in customer contracts. For sales that include installation services, warranty obligations generally extend for a period of 12 to 24 months from the date of either shipment or acceptance based on the contract terms. Product obligations generally extend for a period of 12 to 24 months from the date of purchase. Certain products offered in our Sensors segment include a lifetime warranty. 
Under the terms of these warranties, we are obligated to repair or replace any components or assemblies deemed defective due to workmanship or materials. We reserve the right to reject warranty claims where it is determined that failure is due to normal wear, customer modifications, improper maintenance or misuse. We record general warranty provisions based on an estimated warranty expense percentage applied to current period revenue. The percentage applied reflects our historical warranty claims experience over the preceding 12-month period. Both the experience percentage and the warranty liability are evaluated on an ongoing basis for adequacy. Warranty provisions are also recognized for certain unanticipated product claims that are individually significant.
1 See Note 16 for additional information regarding acquisitions.
1 Based on observable market transactions of spot currency rates and forward currency rates on equivalently-termed instruments. Carrying amounts of the financial assets and liabilities are equal to the fair value. See Note 8 for additional information on derivative financial instruments.
We measure certain financial instruments at fair value on a nonrecurring basis. These assets primarily include goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets acquired either as part of a business acquisition, individually or with a group of other assets, as well as property and equipment. These assets were initially measured and recognized at amounts equal to the fair value determined as of the date of acquisition or purchase subject to changes in value only for foreign currency translation. 
Periodically, these assets are tested for impairment by comparing their respective carrying values to the estimated fair value of the reporting unit or asset group in which they reside. In the event any of these assets were to become impaired, we would recognize an impairment loss equal to the amount by which the carrying value of the reporting unit, impaired asset or asset group exceeds its estimated fair value. Fair value measurements of reporting units are estimated using an income approach involving discounted or undiscounted cash flow models that contain certain Level 3 inputs requiring management judgment, including projections of economic conditions and customer demand, revenue and margins, changes in competition, operating costs, working capital requirements and new product introductions. Fair value measurements of the reporting units associated with our goodwill balances and our indefinite-lived intangible assets are estimated at least annually in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year for purposes of impairment testing if a quantitative analysis is performed. Fair value measurements associated with our intangible assets, other long-lived assets and property and equipment are estimated when events or changes in circumstances such as market value, asset utilization, physical change, legal factors or other matters indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. See Note 6 for additional information on goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, other long-lived assets and property and equipment.
Certain financial instruments are not measured at fair value but are recorded at carrying amounts approximating fair value based on their short-term nature or variable interest rate. These financial instruments include cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, unbilled accounts receivable, accounts payable and short-term borrowings.
The fair value of the tranche B term loan is based on the most recently quoted market price for the outstanding debt instrument, adjusted for any known significant deviations in value. The estimated fair value of the debt obligation is not necessarily indicative of the amount that would be realized in a current market exchange. See Note 9 for additional information on debt instruments.
Currency exchange contracts utilized to maintain the functional currency value of expected financial transactions denominated in foreign currencies are designated as cash flow hedges. Gains and losses related to changes in the market value of these contracts are reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) within shareholders' equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and reclassified to earnings in the same line item in the Consolidated Statements of Income and in the same period as the recognition of the underlying hedged transaction. We periodically assess whether our currency exchange contracts are effective and, when a contract is determined to be no longer effective as a hedge, we discontinue hedge accounting prospectively. 
As of June 29, 2019 and September 29, 2018, we had outstanding cash flow hedge currency exchange contracts with gross notional U.S. dollar equivalent amounts of $35,412 and $39,856, respectively. Upon netting offsetting contracts to sell foreign currencies against contracts to purchase foreign currencies, irrespective of contract maturity dates, the net notional U.S. dollar equivalent amount of contracts outstanding was $28,176 and $29,315 as of June 29, 2019 and September 29, 2018, respectively. As of June 29, 2019, the net market value of the foreign currency exchange contracts was a net asset of $85, consisting of $350 in assets and $265 in liabilities. As of September 29, 2018, the net market value of the foreign currency exchange contracts was a net asset of $816, consisting of $989 in assets and $173 in liabilities.
As of June 29, 2019, the amount projected to be reclassified from AOCI into earnings in the next 12 months was a net gain of $98. The maximum remaining maturity of any forward or optional contract as of June 29, 2019 was 1.4 years.
On October 20, 2016, we entered into a floating to fixed interest rate swap agreement to mitigate our exposure to interest rate increases related to a portion of our tranche B term loan facility. The total notional amount of the interest rate swap was $225,000 as of June 29, 2019. The swap agreement expires April 3, 2021. As a result of this agreement, every month we pay fixed interest at 1.256% in exchange for interest received at one month U.S. LIBOR. The market value of the interest rate swap as of June 29, 2019 was an asset of $1,664. The interest rate swap has been designated as a cash flow hedge. As a result, changes in the fair value of the interest rate swap are recorded in AOCI within shareholders' equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
As of June 29, 2019, the amount projected to be reclassified from AOCI into earnings in the next 12 months was a net gain of $1,391.
We also use foreign currency derivative contracts to maintain the functional currency value of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional foreign currencies. The gains and losses related to the changes in the market value of these derivative contracts are included in other income (expense), net in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 
As of June 29, 2019 and September 29, 2018, we had outstanding foreign currency balance sheet derivative contracts with gross notional U.S. dollar equivalent amounts of $94,824 and $90,816, respectively. Upon netting offsetting contracts by counterparty banks to sell foreign currencies against contracts to purchase foreign currencies, irrespective of contract maturity dates, the net notional U.S. dollar equivalent amount of contracts outstanding as of June 29, 2019 and September 29, 2018 was $27,833 and $28,271, respectively. As of June 29, 2019 and September 29, 2018, the net market value of the foreign exchange balance sheet derivative contracts was a net liability of $225 and a net asset of $91, respectively. 
In the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, in conjunction with the E2M acquisition, we entered into a third amendment to the Credit Agreement to increase the borrowing capacity on the Revolving Credit Facility from $120,000 to $150,000 and extend the expiration date of the Revolving Credit Facility from July 5, 2021 to July 5, 2022. Additionally, the required performance levels under certain financial covenants were modified. During the nine months ended June 29, 2019, we incurred debt financing costs of $541 as a result of this amendment which were capitalized in current maturities of long-term debt, net and long-term debt, less current maturities, net in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The primary categories of borrowing include Alternate Base Rate (ABR) Borrowings (ABR Term Loans and ABR Revolving Loans), Swingline Loans and Eurocurrency Borrowings (Eurocurrency Term Loans and Eurocurrency Revolving Loans), each as defined in the Credit Agreement. ABR Borrowings and Swingline Loans made in U.S. dollars under the Credit Agreement 
As of June 29, 2019, there was $80,391 of outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility which is included in long-term debt, less current maturities, net in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. As of September 29, 2018, there were no outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility. We had outstanding letters of credit drawn from the Revolving Credit Facility totaling $22,580 and $20,448 as of June 29, 2019 and September 29, 2018, respectively, leaving approximately $47,029 and $99,552, respectively, of unused borrowing capacity. Commitment fees are payable on the unused portion of the Revolving Credit Facility at rates between 0.25% and 0.40% based on our leverage ratio. During the three and nine months ended June 29, 2019, commitment fees incurred totaled $52 and $176, respectively. During the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, commitment fees incurred totaled $94 and $250, respectively. 
The Credit Agreement governing the Term Facility requires us to prepay outstanding term loans, subject to certain exceptions, depending on the leverage ratio with (a) up to 50% of the our annual Excess Cash Flow (as defined in the Credit Agreement) and (b) 100% of the net cash proceeds of (i) certain asset sales and casualty and condemnation events, subject to reinvestment rights and certain other exceptions; and (ii) any incurrence or issuance of certain debt, other than debt permitted under the Credit Agreement. We may voluntarily prepay outstanding loans under the Term Facility at any time without premium or penalty. All obligations under the Credit Agreement are unconditionally guaranteed by certain of our existing wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries, and are secured, subject to certain exceptions, by substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiary guarantors. 
Under the Credit Agreement, we are subject to customary affirmative and negative covenants, including, among others, restrictions on our ability to incur debt, create liens, dispose of assets, make investments, loans, advances, guarantees, and acquisitions, enter into transactions with affiliates, and enter into any restrictive agreements and customary events of default (including payment defaults, covenant defaults, change of control defaults and bankruptcy defaults). The Credit Agreement also contains financial covenants, including the ratio of consolidated total indebtedness to adjusted consolidated earnings before income, taxes, depreciation and amortization (Adjusted EBITDA), as defined in the Credit Agreement, as well as the ratio of Adjusted EBITDA to consolidated interest expense. These covenants restrict our ability to purchase outstanding shares of our common stock. As of June 29, 2019 and September 29, 2018, we were in compliance with these financial covenants. 
See Note 7 for additional information on the fair value of the tranche B term loan and the TEU debt.
On October 20, 2016, in order to mitigate our exposure to interest rate increases on our variable rate debt, we entered into a variable to fixed amortizing interest rate swap. See Note 8 for additional information on derivative financial instruments.
We compensate our officers, directors and employees with stock-based compensation under the 2017 Stock Incentive Plan (the 2017 Plan) approved by our shareholders and administered under the supervision of our Board of Directors. As of June 29, 2019, a total of 968 shares were available for issuance under the 2017 Plan. 
We make an annual stock grant under the 2017 Plan of stock options, restricted stock units and performance restricted stock units, as well as stock grants throughout the fiscal year. For fiscal years 2019, 2018 and 2017, the annual stock grant occurred in December 2018, April 2018 and April 2017, respectively.
During the nine months ended June 29, 2019, 231 stock options were granted at a weighted average fair value of $9.91. During the nine months ended June 30, 2018, 245 stock options were granted at a weighted average fair value of $11.10. 
We award restricted stock units to directors and key employees and performance restricted stock units to key employees. During the nine months ended June 29, 2019, we granted 129 restricted stock units and 40 performance restricted stock units to directors, officers and employees. During the nine months ended June 30, 2018, we granted 109 restricted stock units and 29 performance restricted stock units. The fair value of the restricted stock units and performance restricted stock units granted during the nine months ended June 29, 2019 and June 30, 2018 was $46.67 and $49.63, respectively, representing the market value of our shares as of the date of grant less the present value of estimated foregone dividends over the vesting period. 
Our U.S. employees are eligible to participate in the 2012 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (2012 ESPP) approved by our shareholders. As of June 29, 2019, 599 shares were available for issuance under the 2012 ESPP. During the nine months ended June 29, 2019 and June 30, 2018, we issued 16 and 24 shares, respectively, under the 2012 ESPP at a weighted average price per share of $34.11 and $44.39, respectively. 
The effective tax rate for the nine months ended June 29, 2019 increased primarily due to certain discrete benefits in the prior year for the estimated impact of the Tax Act. Excluding the impact of certain discrete benefits in the prior year, the effective tax rate for the nine months ended June 29, 2019 decreased as compared to the same prior year period. Factors that affected the effective tax rate for the nine months ended June 29, 2019 included impacts of the Tax Act, such as elimination of the domestic manufacturing deduction and the implementation of the global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI) provision. These increases were offset by favorable aspects of the Tax Act, such as the decrease in the U.S. income tax rate and provisions for 
During the third quarter of fiscal year 2016, we issued 1,150 TEUs in a registered public offering primarily to finance the acquisition of PCB, to repay amounts outstanding under our existing revolving credit facility and to pay related costs, fees and expenses. Total proceeds, net of underwriting discounts, commissions and other expenses were $110,926. Each TEU has a stated amount of $100 per TEU and is comprised of a prepaid stock purchase contract and a senior amortizing note having a final installment payment date of July 1, 2019. We allocated the proceeds from the issuance of the TEUs between equity and debt based on the relative fair values of the respective components of each TEU. The fair value of the prepaid stock purchase contracts, net of underwriting discounts, commissions and other expenses, was recorded in additional paid-in capital in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The fair value of the senior amortizing note, net of underwriting discounts, commissions and other expenses, was split between current maturities of long-term debt, net and long-term debt, less current maturities, net in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Underwriting discounts, commissions and other costs directly associated with the TEU-related debt were amortized using the effective interest rate method over the three-year term of the instrument.
1 The fair value price allocation between equity and debt for each TEU was determined using a discounted cash flow model.
Other expenses include direct and incremental costs related to the issuance of the TEUs.
Unless converted earlier at the option of the holder, each prepaid stock purchase contract automatically settle on July 1, 2019. If converted prior to the automatic settlement date at the option of the holder, the minimum of 1.9841 shares of our common stock are delivered to the holder of each prepaid stock purchase contract. On the automatic settlement date, a minimum of 1.9841 shares and a maximum of 2.3810 shares of our common stock, subject to adjustment based upon the applicable market value discussed below, will be delivered to the holder of each prepaid stock purchase contract at the settlement date.
The "applicable market value" is defined as the average of the daily volume-weighted average price of the common stock on each of the 20 consecutive trading days beginning on, and including, the 23rd scheduled trading day immediately preceding July 1, 2019.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017, certain holders of our TEUs elected to early convert the equity component on 473 of our outstanding TEUs at the minimum conversion rate of 1.9841 which resulted in the issuance of 939 shares of our common stock. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2019, certain holders of our TEUs elected to early convert the equity component on 394 of our outstanding TEUs at the minimum conversion rate of 1.9841 which resulted in the issuance of 781 shares of our common stock. During fiscal year 2018, no holders of our TEUs elected to early convert the equity component of our outstanding TEUs. 
Subsequent to the end of the third quarter of fiscal year 2019, on July 1, 2019, the remaining 283 outstanding TEUs were converted at the minimum conversion rate of 1.9841 which resulted in the issuance of approximately 560 shares of our common stock.
The amortizing senior note was issued with an initial principal amount of $27,386, or $23.8136 per TEU. Equal quarterly cash installments of $2.1875 per amortizing note are paid, which in the aggregate are equivalent to a 8.75% cash distribution per year with respect to each $100 stated amount per TEU. Each installment constitutes a payment of interest and partial repayment of principal. On July 1, 2019, subsequent to the end of the third quarter of fiscal year 2019, the final installment was paid.
The TEUs have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share. The 1.9841 minimum shares to be issued are included in the calculation of basic weighted average shares outstanding. The 0.3969 difference between the minimum shares and the 2.3810 maximum shares are potentially dilutive, and accordingly, are included in our diluted earnings per share on a pro rata basis to the extent the applicable market value is higher than the reference price but less than the threshold appreciation price. See Note 13 for additional information regarding the calculation of earnings per share.
In connection with the pricing of the TEUs sold in our public offering in fiscal year 2016, we purchased capped calls from third party banking institutions (Capped Calls) for $7,935. The initial Capped Calls were for 2,282 equivalent shares of our common stock with a strike price of $50.40, a cap price of $58.80 and an expiration date of July 1, 2019. The value of the Capped Calls is settled with shares of our common stock, based on the approximate market value of our common stock at such time, and could be settled as the TEUs were early converted or settled upon expiration on July 1, 2019 (Capped Call Expiration). During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017, we settled approximately 10% of the Capped Calls, which resulted in us receiving and retiring 12 shares of our common stock. No Capped Calls were settled during the nine months ended June 29, 2019 and fiscal year 2018.
On June 13, 2018, we amended the agreements with third party banking institutions for the outstanding Capped Calls (Capped Call Agreements) to modify the timing of settlement to be only upon expiration for all outstanding Capped Calls. Per the Capped Call Agreements, the outstanding Capped Calls are for 2,054 equivalent shares of our common stock with a strike price of $50.40 and a cap price of $57.97. The Capped Calls will be automatically settled upon Capped Call Expiration in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019 with shares of our common stock based on the average market value of our common stock as defined in the Capped Call Agreements.
As of June 29, 2019, the range of shares of our common stock to be received for the outstanding Capped Calls was a minimum of 0 shares to a maximum of 268 shares, which will be realized if the average market value of our common stock as defined in the Capped Call Agreements is at or below $50.40 or at $57.97, respectively, upon Capped Call Expiration. 
Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income by the daily weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the applicable period. The TEUs are assumed to be settled at the minimum settlement amount of 1.9841 shares per TEU when calculating weighted-average common shares outstanding for purposes of basic earnings per share. 
Using the treasury stock method, diluted earnings per share includes the potentially dilutive effect of common shares issued in connection with outstanding stock-based compensation options and grants. The potentially dilutive effect of common shares issued in connection with outstanding stock options is determined based on the average market price for the period. For diluted earnings per share, the TEUs are assumed to be settled at a conversion factor based on our daily volume-weighted average price per share of our common stock for the 20 consecutive trading days preceding the end of the current fiscal quarter not to exceed 2.3810 shares of common stock per TEU.
Under the treasury stock method, shares associated with certain stock options have been excluded from the diluted weighted average shares outstanding calculation because the exercise of those options would lead to a net reduction in common shares outstanding or anti-dilution. As a result, stock options to acquire 835 and 667 weighted common shares have been excluded from the diluted weighted average common shares outstanding calculation for the three months ended June 29, 2019 and June 30, 2018, respectively. Stock options to acquire 812 and 548 weighted common shares have been excluded from the diluted weighted average common shares outstanding calculation for the nine months ended June 29, 2019 and June 30, 2018, respectively.
In connection with the pricing of the TEUs, we purchased capped calls. The capped calls will not be reflected in the calculation of diluted earnings per share until settled as they will lead to a net reduction in common shares outstanding or anti-dilution. See Note 12 for additional information on our equity instruments.
Other comprehensive income (loss), a component of shareholders' equity, consists of foreign currency translation adjustments, gains or losses on derivative instruments and defined benefit pension plan adjustments. 
Change in classification of actuarial loss on defined benefit pension plan related to the adoption of ASU No. 2017-07 in fiscal year 2019. See Note 2 for additional information on the impact of adoption. 
Intersegment revenue is based on standard costs with reasonable mark-ups established between the reportable segments. All significant intersegment amounts are eliminated to arrive at consolidated financial results. 
The preliminary fair value of the acquired intangible assets was $43,989. The acquired intangible assets are being amortized on a straight-line basis over the useful lives identified in the table above.
In connection with the repayment of a portion of the Term Facility, we terminated the associated interest rate swap. As of June 29, 2019, the interest rate swap had a total notional amount of $225,000. The market value of the interest rate swap as of June 29, 2019 was an asset of $1,664. See Note 8 for additional information on our interest rate swap.
Item 1A. Risk Factors
As of June 29, 2019, we had $468,357 outstanding under our senior secured credit facilities. Giving pro forma effect to the issuance of the Notes on July 16, 2019, as of June 29, 2019 we would have had $350,000 in aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes outstanding, approximately $174,000 outstanding under our Tranche B term loan facility and no amounts drawn under our revolving credit facility. See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for changes to our capital structure incurred subsequent to the end of the third quarter of fiscal year 2019.
There are no assurances that we will maintain a level of liquidity sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations, which could cause us to default on our debt obligations and impair our liquidity. In the event of a default under any of our indebtedness, the holders of the defaulted debt could elect to declare all the funds borrowed to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, which in turn could result in cross-defaults under our other indebtedness. The lenders under our senior secured credit facilities could also elect to terminate their commitments thereunder and cease making further loans, and such lenders could institute foreclosure proceedings against their collateral, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. 
Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly.
Our senior secured credit facilities bear, and other indebtedness we may incur in the future may bear, interest at a variable rate. As a result, at any given time interest rates on the senior secured credit facilities and any other variable rate debt could be higher or lower than current levels. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on our variable rate indebtedness will increase even though the amount borrowed remains the same, and therefore net income and associated cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, will correspondingly decrease.
We may be able to incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. Although the credit agreement that governs our senior secured credit facilities and the indenture that governs the senior unsecured notes contain restrictions on incurring additional indebtedness and entering into certain types of other transactions, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions. Additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. In addition, these restrictions also do not prevent us from incurring obligations, such as certain trade payables, that do not constitute indebtedness as defined under our debt instruments. To the extent we incur additional indebtedness or other obligations, the risks described herein may increase.
