Restricted Cash- The carrying value of our restricted cash was $29.7 million and $4.0 million at March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The March 31, 2019 balance primarily consists of $21.3 million funds in an escrow account to acquire the remaining 25.16% publicly-held Weizmann Forex shares pending the lapse of a time bound public offer.
Additionally in connection with a 2016 acquisition, there is upfront cash consideration and possible future contingent earn-out payments held in an escrow account contingent upon the acquired business achieving the minimum specified annual net revenue thresholds, which if not achieved would result in said funds being returned to Ebix.
•Contingent accrued earn-out business acquisition consideration liabilities for which fair values are measured as Level 3 instruments.
These contingent consideration liabilities were recorded at fair value on the acquisition date and are re-measured quarterly based on the then assessed fair value and adjusted if necessary.
The Company applies these terms in its calculation and determination of the fair value of contingent earn out liabilities for purchased businesses as part of the related valuation and purchase price allocation exercise for the corresponding acquired assets and liabilities.
Revenue Recognition—The Company derives its revenues primarily from subscription and transaction fees pertaining to services delivered over our exchanges or from our ASP platforms, fees for risk compliance solution services, and fees for software development projects including associated fees for consulting, implementation, training, and project management provided to customers with installed systems and applications.
For arrangements that include multiple performance obligations, the Company allocates consideration based on their relative fair values.These types of arrangements include obligations pertaining to software licenses, system set-up, and professional services associated with product customization or modification.
The Company records contract liabilities when it receives payments or invoices in advance of the performance of services.
Approximately $8.0 million of contract liabilities is included in billed accounts receivable at March 31, 2019.
During the three months ending March 31, 2019 and 2018 the Company recognized and recorded bad debt expense in the amount of $134 thousand and $1.0 million, respectively.The Company derives its revenues primarily from subscription and transaction fees pertaining to services delivered over our exchanges or from our ASP platforms, fees for business process outsourcing services, and fees for software development projects including associated fees for consulting, implementation, training, and project management provided to customers with installed systems, e-governance solutions to governmental agencies in the health and education sectors, as well as foreign exchange, remittance (both inward and outward) and related services, including travel, from our new financial exchange.
International revenue accounted for 67.8% and 53.9% of the Company’s total revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019 our total operating revenues increased $34.7 million or 32%, to $142.9 million as compared to $108.2 million during the first quarter of 2018.
The year-over-year revenues primarily increased as a result of the growth in the EbixCash segment as well as the acquisitions made by Ebix in the last twelve months.
Specifically, the adverse impact from fluctuations of the exchange rates for the foreign currencies in the countries in which we conduct operations, in the aggregate reduced reported revenues by $(5.0) million for the three months ended March 31, 2019.
With respect to business acquisitions completed during the years 2019 and 2018 on a pro forma basis, as disclosed in the pro forma financial information table in Note 3, combined revenues decreased 7.2% for the three months ending March 31, 2019, respectively, versus the same periods in 2018.On February 10, 2015, defendants filed a Motion to Dismiss the Second Amended Complaint, which was granted in part and denied in part in a Memorandum Opinion and Order issued on January 15, 2016.