The Company is continuing to evaluate the classification of the 2017 and 2018 acquisitions that collectively make up the EbixCash Financial Exchanges, refer to Part I, Item I Business in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Restricted Cash- As part of the ItzCash Card Limited ("ItzCash") acquisition, $4.0 million of the possible future contingent earn-out payments is being held in escrow accounts for the twelve month period following the effective date of the acquisition to ensure that the acquired business achieves the minimum specified annual gross revenue threshold.
Additionally, as part of the Wdev Solucoes em Technologia SA ("Wdev") acquisition, upfront cash consideration is being held in an escrow account for the thirty-eight month period following the effective date of the acquisition to ensure that the acquired business achieves the minimum specified annual net revenue threshold, which if not achieved will result in said funds being returned to Ebix.
As of June 30, 2018 there is $2.6 million included in other long-term assets of the Company's Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
During the first six months of 2017 reported sales and marketing expenses included $2.0 million of amortization of certain direct-response advertising costs associated with our medical education services, which have been capitalized in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 340.
The Company was required to recognize a cumulative effective change to opening retained earnings in the year of adoption of the standard.
The Company recorded a one-time $1.9 million adjustment to retained earnings on January 1, 2018 and is expensing all future costs from this date forward.
Under the new guidance Subtopic 340-40, the Company's expense decreased by $497 thousand during the first six months of 2018 from what would have been recorded under legacy US GAAP 340-20.
These contingent consideration liabilities were recorded at fair value on the acquisition date and are re-measured quarterly based on the then assessed fair value and adjusted if necessary.
The Company applies these terms in its calculation and determination of the fair value of contingent earn out liabilities for purchased businesses as part of the related valuation and purchase price allocation exercise for the corresponding acquired assets and liabilities.As used herein, the terms “Ebix,” “the Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” refer to Ebix, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries as a combined entity, except where it is clear that the terms mean only Ebix, Inc. Safe Harbor for Forward-Looking Statements—This Form 10-Q and certain information incorporated herein by reference contains forward-looking statements and information within the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
The Company derives its revenues primarily from subscription and transaction fees pertaining to services delivered over our exchanges or from our ASP platforms, fees for business process outsourcing services, and fees for software development projects including associated fees for consulting, implementation, training, and project management provided to customers with installed systems, e-governance solutions to governmental agencies in the health and education sectors, as well as foreign exchange, remittance (both inward and outward) and related services, including travel, from our new financial exchange.
International revenue accounted for 61.2% and 39.5% of the Company’s total revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The Company is continuing to evaluate the classification of the 2017 and 2018 acquisitions that collectively make up the EbixCash Financial Exchanges, refer to Part I, Item I Business in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
During the three months ended June 30, 2018 our total operating revenues increased $37.2 million or 43%, to $124.6 million as compared to $87.4 million during the second quarter of 2017.
The year-over-year revenues primarily increased as a result of the Company's acquisitions of Centrum, Smartclass, Via and Ebix Money.
With respect to business acquisitions completed during the years 2018 and 2017 on a pro forma basis, as disclosed in the pro forma financial information table in Note 3 of the Condensed Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, combined revenues increased 0.51% for the three months ending June 30, 2018 versus the same periods in 2017.