item1.txt
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019 there were 662 shares, totaling $36 thousand, used to satisfy exercise costs and the recipients' income tax obligations related to stock options exercised and restricted stock vesting.
In the insurance sector, the Company’s main focus is to develop and deploy a wide variety of insurance and reinsurance exchanges on an on-demand basis, while also providing software-as-a-service ("SaaS") enterprise solutions in the area of customer relationship management ("CRM"), front-end and back-end systems, and outsourced administrative and risk compliance.
The Company's products feature fully customizable and scalable on-demand software designed to streamline the way insurance professionals manage distribution, marketing, sales, customer service, and accounting activities.
With a "Phygital” strategy that combines physical distribution outlets in many Association of Southwest Asian Nations ("ASEAN") countries to an Omni-channel online digital platform, the Company’s EbixCash Financial exchange portfolio of services encompasses dominance in the areas of domestic and international money remittance, foreign exchange ("Forex"), travel, pre-paid gift cards, utility payments, lending, and wealth management in India and other Asian markets.
International revenue accounted for 68.7% and 59.4% of the Company’s total revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Restricted Cash - The carrying value of our restricted cash in current assets was $18.2 million and $8.3 million at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.
The September 30, 2019 balance consists of upfront cash consideration and possible future contingent earn-out payments held in an escrow account in connection with a 2016 business acquisition.
Advertising—Advertising costs amounted to $2.0 million and $2.3 million in the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $7.6 million and $6.2 million in the nine months ended 2019 and 2018, respectively.
During 2018 and 2019, certain of the Company's contingent earn-out liabilities were adjusted because of changes to anticipated future revenues from these acquired businesses, or as a result of finalizing purchase price allocations that were previously provisional.
Revenue Recognition—The Company derives its revenues primarily from software subscription and transaction fees, software license fees, financial transaction fees, risk compliance solution services fees, and professional service fees including associated fees for consulting, implementation, training, and project management provided to customers with installed systems and applications.
EbixCash also offers several other services, primarily including payment services and ticketing and travel services for which revenue is impacted by varying factors.
EbixCash acts as the principal in transactions and reports revenue on a gross basis, as EbixCash controls the service at all times prior to transfer to the customer, is primarily responsible for fulfilling the customer contracts, has the risk of loss, and has the ability to establish transaction prices.
For EbixCash’s foreign exchange and payment services, customers agree to terms and conditions for all transactions, either at the time of initiating a transaction or signing a contract with EbixCash to provide payment services on the customer’s behalf.
In the majority of EbixCash’s foreign exchange and payment services, EbixCash makes payments to the recipient to satisfy its performance obligation to the customer, and therefore, EbixCash recognizes revenue on foreign exchange and payment services when this performance obligation has been fulfilled.


item2.txt
As used herein, the terms “Ebix,” “the Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” refer to Ebix, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries as a combined entity, except where it is clear that the terms mean only Ebix, Inc. Ebix, Inc., and its subsidiaries, (“Ebix” or the “Company”) is a leading international supplier of on-demand infrastructure exchanges to the insurance, financial, and healthcare industries.
In the insurance sector, the Company’s main focus is to develop and deploy a wide variety of insurance and reinsurance exchanges on an on-demand basis, while also providing software-as-a-service ("SaaS") enterprise solutions in the area of customer relationship management ("CRM"), front-end and back-end systems, outsourced administrative and risk compliance.
The Company's products feature fully customizable and scalable on-demand software designed to streamline the way insurance professionals manage distribution, marketing, sales, customer service, and accounting activities.
With a "Phygital” strategy that combines physical distribution outlets in many Association of Southwest Asian Nations ("ASEAN") countries to an Omni-channel online digital platform, the Company’s EbixCash Financial exchange portfolio of services encompasses dominance in the areas of domestic and international money remittance, foreign exchange ("Forex"), travel, pre-paid gift cards, utility payments, lending, and wealth management in India and other Asian markets.
In these operating offices, Ebix employs insurance and technology professionals who provide products, services, support and consultancy to thousands of customers across six continents.
The Company derives its revenues primarily from subscription and transaction fees pertaining to services delivered over our exchanges or from our application service provider "ASP" platforms, fees for business process outsourcing services, and fees for software development projects including associated fees for consulting, implementation, training, and project management provided to customers with installed systems, e-governance solutions to governmental agencies in the health and education sectors, as well as foreign exchange, remittance (both inward and outward) and related services, including travel, from our new financial exchange.
International revenue accounted for 69.4% and 62.4% of the Company’s total revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
In the table above for the three months ending September 30, 2019 and 2018 respectfully, there is $3.8 million, and $2.1 million of Insurance Exchange revenues derived in India that are being reported within the EbixCash Exchange channel only above.
Similarly, for the nine months ending September 30, 2019 and 2018 respectfully, there is $13.1 million, and $2.1 million of Insurance Exchange revenues derived in India that are being reported within the EbixCash Exchange channel only above.
During the three months ended September 30, 2019 our total operating revenues increased $18.6 million or 14%, to $147.2 million as compared to $128.6 million during the third quarter of 2018.
The year-over-year revenues primarily increased as a result of the growth in the EbixCash segment as well as the acquisitions in the travel, foreign exchange, and software solutions sectors during the last twelve months offset by reductions in revenues from the insurance consulting business, EbixHealth JV, and e-governance service contracts executed within the Ebix Vayam Limited JV for Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited "BSNL" (a leading public sector undertaking in the telecommunication sector in India).
Reported revenues were impacted by the continuing weakening in the foreign currencies in which we conduct operations (particularly in India, Australia, and United Kingdom) as compared to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar.
Specifically, the adverse impact from fluctuations of the exchange rates for the foreign currencies in the countries in which we conduct operations, in the aggregate, reduced reported revenues by $1.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019.
With respect to business acquisitions completed during the years 2019 and 2018 on a pro forma basis, as disclosed in the pro forma financial information table in Note 3, combined revenues increased 5.2% for the three months ending September 30, 2019 versus the same periods in 2018.


item3.txt



item4.txt
We monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis our disclosure controls and procedures in order to improve their overall effectiveness.


part2.txt
bank financing facility.


