item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto for the year ended December 31, 2017, included in our annual report on Form 10-K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated financial statements reflect all adjustments (consisting only of normal recurring items) considered necessary to present fairly our financial position at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the results of our operations and comprehensive income for three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, and the cash flows for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017.
Our operating results for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the year ending December 31, 2018.
During the three months ended September 30, 2018, we recorded a non-cash out of period adjustment of $2.3 million related to the deferral of gross profit associated with intercompany purchases from our equity-method investee that should have been recognized when realized, through transactions with third-parties, beginning in January 2011.
Stock awards to acquire 36,600 shares and 40,700 shares for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and 537,000 shares and 22,300 shares for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, were excluded in the computations of diluted EPS because the effect of including the stock awards would have been anti-dilutive.
There were no other significant changes in our accounting policies during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Under the new revenue standard, we are no longer required to establish vendor-specific objective evidence ("VSOE") to recognize software license revenue separately from the other elements, and we are able to recognize all software license revenue once the customer obtains control of the license, which will generally occur at the start of each license term.
The primary purpose of our invoicing terms is to provide customers with simplified and predictable ways of purchasing our products and services, not to receive financing from our customers, such as invoicing at the beginning of a subscription term with a portion of the revenue recognized ratably over the contract period, or to provide customers with financing, such as multi-year on-premises licenses that are invoiced annually with revenue recognized upfront.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, revenue recognized from performance obligations related to prior periods (for example, due to changes in transaction price) was not material.
Based on the nature of our contracts with customers, we do not typically recognize unbilled receivables related to revenues recognized in excess of amounts billed.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, amounts recognized related to unbilled receivables were not material.
Revenue expected to be recognized in any future period related to remaining performance obligations, excluding revenue pertaining to contracts that have an original expected duration of one year or less, and excluding contracts where revenue is recognized as invoiced, was approximately $54.9 million as of September 30, 2018.
As of September 30, 2018, we expect to recognize approximately 12% of the revenue related to these unsatisfied performance obligations during the remainder of 2018, 44% during 2019, and 44% thereafter.
Total capitalized costs to obtain a contract were immaterial during the periods presented and are included in other long-term assets on our consolidated balance sheets.
•We do not disclose the value of unsatisfied performance obligations for (i) contracts with an original expected length of one year or less and (ii) contracts for which we recognize revenue at the amount to which we have the right to invoice for services performed.
We value our available-for-sale short-term investments based on pricing from third party pricing vendors, who may use quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (Level 1 inputs) or inputs other than quoted prices that are observable either directly or indirectly (Level 2 inputs) in determining fair value.
For those derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as hedging instruments, we designate the hedging instrument, based upon the exposure being hedged, as a fair value hedge, cash flow hedge, or a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation.
Sales outside of the Americas accounted for approximately 59% and 58% of our net sales during the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, and approximately 61% and 60% of our net sales during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Our activities expose us to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
We purchase foreign currency forward contracts as hedges of forecasted sales that are denominated in foreign currencies and as hedges of foreign currency denominated financial assets or liabilities.
These contracts are entered into to help protect against the risk that the eventual dollar-net-cash inflows resulting from such sales or firm commitments will be adversely affected by changes in exchange rates.
These contracts are entered into to help protect against the risk that the eventual dollar-net-cash outflows resulting from foreign currency operating and cost of sales expenses will be adversely affected by changes in exchange rates.
We designate foreign currency forward contracts as cash flow hedges of forecasted net sales or forecasted expenses.
To help protect against the reduction in value caused by a fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates of forecasted foreign currency cash flows resulting from international sales over the next one to three years, we have instituted a foreign currency cash flow hedging program.
We hedge portions of our forecasted net sales and forecasted expenses denominated in foreign currencies with forward contracts.
For forward contracts, when the dollar strengthens significantly against the foreign currencies, the change in the present value of future foreign currency cash flows may be offset by the change in the fair value of the forward contracts designated as hedges.
For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative is reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (“OCI”) and reclassified into earnings in the same line item (net sales, operating expenses, or cost of sales) associated with the forecasted transaction and in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings.
Gains and losses on the derivative representing either hedge ineffectiveness or hedge components excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized in current earnings or expenses during the current period and are classified as a component of “net foreign exchange gain (loss).” Hedge effectiveness of foreign currency forwards designated as cash flow hedges are measured by comparing the hedging instrument’s cumulative change in fair value from inception to maturity to the forecasted transaction’s terminal value.
At September 30, 2018, we expect to reclassify $5.1 million of gains on derivative instruments from accumulated OCI to net sales during the next twelve months when the hedged international sales occur, $0.2 million of gains on derivative instruments from accumulated OCI to cost of sales during the next twelve months when the cost of sales are incurred and $0.3 million of gains on derivative instruments from accumulated OCI to operating expenses during the next twelve months when the hedged operating expenses occur.
The gains and losses recognized in earnings due to hedge ineffectiveness were not material for each of the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 and are included as a component of net income under the line item “net foreign exchange gain (loss).”
Other derivatives not designated as hedging instruments consist primarily of foreign currency forward contracts that we use to hedge our foreign denominated net receivable or net payable positions to help protect against the change in value caused by a fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates.
The gain or loss on the derivatives as well as the offsetting gain or loss on the hedge item attributable to the hedged risk is recognized in current earnings under the line item “net foreign exchange gain (loss).” As of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, we held foreign currency forward contracts that were not designated as hedging instruments with a notional amount of $52 million and $63 million, respectively.
The following tables present the fair value of derivative instruments on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
We do not believe that the change in the date of the annual goodwill impairment test is a material change in the method of applying an accounting principle nor do we expect that it will result in any delay, acceleration or impact to the results of the impairment testing.
The tax position of our Hungarian operations resulted in income tax benefits of $2.6 million and $4.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $7.1 million and $11.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The income tax benefits of the tax holiday for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 were approximately $0.8 million and $1.9 million, respectively.
The impact of the tax holiday on a per share basis for each of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 was a benefit of $0.01 per share.
The income tax benefits of the tax holiday for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 were approximately $0.8 million and $1.9 million, respectively.
The impact of the tax holiday on a per share basis for each of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 was a benefit of $0.01 per share.
We are applying the guidance in SAB 118 when accounting for the enactment-date effects of the Act. As of September 30, 2018, we had not completed our accounting for the tax effects of enactment of the Act. However, we have made a reasonable estimate of the effects on our existing deferred tax balances and the one-time transition tax.
At December 31, 2017, we recognized a provisional amount of $69.9 million, which is included as a component of income tax expense from continuing operations.
During the three month period ended September 30, 2018, we recognized a $(1.8) million adjustment to the provisional amounts recorded at December 31, 2017, primarily related to foreign withholding and distribution taxes.
At the time of approval, 4,050,000 shares of our common stock were reserved for issuance under this plan, as well as the number of shares which had been reserved but not issued under our 1994 Incentive Plan which terminated in May 2005 (the “1994 Plan”), and any shares that returned to the 1994 Plan as a result of termination of options or repurchase of shares issued under such plan.
During the three months ended September 30, 2018, we did not make any changes in accounting principles or methods of estimates related to the 2005, 2010 and 2015 Plans.
We issued 680,131 shares under this plan in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and the weighted average purchase price of the employees’ purchase rights was $35.91 per share.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we did not make any changes in accounting principles or methods of estimates with respect to such plan.
Revenue from the sale of our products, which are similar in nature, and software maintenance is reflected as total net sales in our Consolidated Statements of Income.
(See "Note 2 -Revenue" of Notes to consolidated financial statements for total net sales by the major geographic areas in which we operate).
Based on the billing location of the customer, total sales outside the U.S. for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 were $213 million and $195 million, respectively, and $635 million and $588 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
If our existing or potential customers do not perceive our latest product offerings as providing significant new functionality or value, or if we are late to market with a new product or technology, we may not achieve our expected return on our investments or be able recover the costs expended to develop new product offerings, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.
Our Reported Financial Results May be Adversely Affected by Changes in Accounting Principles Generally Accepted in the U.S. We prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) and the Securities and Exchange Commission.
A change in these policies or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results and our internal controls over financial reporting, may retroactively affect previously reported results, could cause unexpected financial reporting fluctuations, and may require us to make costly changes to our operational processes and accounting systems.
For example, in May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers which, as amended, supersedes nearly all existing U.S. GAAP revenue recognition guidance and which became effective for us for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2018.
Orders With a Value of Greater than One Million Dollars Expose Us to Significant Additional Business and Legal Risks that Could Have a Material Adverse Impact on our Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
At times these orders include terms that impose critical delivery commitments and severe contractual liabilities if we fail to provide the required quantity of products at the required delivery times, impose product acceptance requirements and product performance evaluation requirements which create uncertainty with respect to the timing of our ability to recognize revenue from such orders, allow the customers to cancel or delay orders without liability, require us to develop specific product mitigation plans for product delivery constraints caused by unexpected or catastrophic situations to help assure quick production recovery, and that require most favored customer pricing, significant discounts, extended payment terms and volume rebates.
Because of Keysight’s strong position in the instrumentation business, changes in its marketing strategy or product offerings could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.
The loss of the services of one or more of our key employees in the future could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.
Failure to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified technical personnel, including software engineers, or retain our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.
Our Operations are Subject to a Variety of Environmental Regulations and Costs that May Have a Material Adverse Effect on our Business and Results of our Operations.


item2.txt
The following table sets forth our net sales for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 along with the changes between the corresponding periods.
The year over year increase in software maintenance for each of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 was driven by increased adoption of our software platform and an increase in billings for annual software maintenance renewals for many of our products.
The following table sets forth our net sales by geographic region for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 along with the changes between the corresponding periods and the region’s percentage of total net sales.
During the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, these hedges had the effect of increasing our net sales by $1.4 million and decreasing our net sales by $(1.4) million, respectively.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, these hedges had the effect of decreasing our net sales by $(2.5) million and increasing our net sales by $1.3 million, respectively.
(See “Note 5 - Derivative instruments and hedging activities” of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion regarding our cash flow hedging program and its related impact on our net sales for 2018 and 2017).
The increases in our gross profit and gross profit as a percentage of net sales for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same periods in 2017 are primarily attributable to the favorable changes in our sales mix, primarily related to strong growth in our software business.
For the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, the change in exchange rates had the effect of increasing our cost of sales by $0.02 million and increasing our cost of sales by $0.1 million, respectively.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, the change in exchange rates had the effect of increasing our cost of sales by $4.0 million and decreasing our cost of sales by $1.4 million, respectively.
During the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, these hedges had the effect of decreasing our cost of sales by $0.1 million and increasing our cost of sales by $0.1 million, respectively.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, these hedges had the effect of decreasing our cost of sales by $0.7 million and increasing our cost of sales by $1.1 million, respectively.
(See “Note 5 - Derivative instruments and hedging activities” of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion regarding our cash flow hedging program and its related impact on our cost of sales for 2018 and 2017).
The following table sets forth our operating expenses for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 along with the percentage changes between the corresponding periods and the line item as a percentage of total net sales.
For the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, operating income was $46 million and $38 million, respectively, an increase of 23%.
As a percentage of net sales, operating income was 13.3% and 11.7% for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, operating income was $111 million and $88 million, respectively, an increase of 26%.
As a percentage of net sales, operating income was 11.1% and 9.4% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The increases in operating income in absolute dollars for the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2017, and for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2017, are attributable to the factors discussed in Net Sales, Gross Profit and Operating Expenses above.
The gain or loss on these derivatives as well as the offsetting gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is recognized in current earnings under the line item “Net foreign exchange gain (loss).” Our hedging strategy decreased our foreign exchange loss by $0.9 million and decreased our foreign exchange gain by $0.9 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively.
Our hedging strategy decreased our foreign exchange loss by $0.7 million and decreased our foreign exchange gain by $4.1 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Investing Activities Cash used for investing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 increased by $18 million compared to the same period in 2017.
Financing Activities Cash used by financing activities decreased by $3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017.


part2.txt
If our existing or potential customers do not perceive our latest product offerings as providing significant new functionality or value, or if we are late to market with a new product or technology, we may not achieve our expected return on our investments or be able recover the costs expended to develop new product offerings, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.
A change in these policies or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results and our internal controls over financial reporting, may retroactively affect previously reported results, could cause unexpected financial reporting fluctuations, and may require us to make costly changes to our operational processes and accounting systems.
Failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines or termination of import and export privileges, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.
Any failure to effectively deal with the risks above could result in an interruption in the operations of our facilities in Hungary or Malaysia which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.
Any failure or delay in distribution from our facilities in Hungary and Malaysia could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.
In the past, we have noted that significant volatility in foreign currency exchange rates in the markets in which we do business has had a significant impact on the revaluation of our foreign currency denominated firm commitments, on our ability to forecast our U.S. dollar equivalent net sales and expenses and on the effectiveness of our hedging programs.
See “Results of Operations” in this Form 10-Q for further discussion on the effect that changes in the foreign currency exchange rates have had on our operating results.
Orders With a Value of Greater than One Million Dollars Expose Us to Significant Additional Business and Legal Risks that Could Have a Material Adverse Impact on our Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
These arrangements expose us to significant additional legal and operational risks which could result in a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.
Our Product Revenues are Dependent on Certain Industries and Contractions in these Industries Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Results of Operations.
As we have experienced in the past, and as we may continue to experience in the future, downturns characterized by diminished product demand in any one or more of these industries may result in decreased sales and a material adverse effect on our operating results.
We cannot predict when and to what degree contractions in these industries may occur; however, any sharp or prolonged contraction in one or more of these industries could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.
In the short-term, these actions may lead to business disruptions, decreased productivity and unanticipated employee turnover which may have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations.
Concentrations of Credit Risk and Uncertain Conditions in the Global Financial Markets May Adversely Affect Our Business and Results of Operations.
There can be no assurance that any losses or impairments to the carrying value of our financial assets as a result of defaults by our counterparties would not materially and adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations.
Because of Keysight’s strong position in the instrumentation business, changes in its marketing strategy or product offerings could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.
Tax Law Changes in Hungary Could Have a Negative Impact on our Effective Tax Rate, Earnings and Results of Operations.
These tax benefits may not be available in future years due to changes in political conditions in Hungary or changes in tax laws in Hungary or in the U.S. The reduction or elimination of these benefits in Hungary could result in an increase in our future effective income tax rate which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.
The expiration of the tax holiday in Malaysia could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.
In the event that any of our distributors experience significant financial or operational difficulties due to adverse global economic conditions or if we experience disruptions in the use of these distributors, our business and operating results would likely be adversely impacted until we are able to secure another distributor or establish direct sales capabilities in the affected market.
Failure to properly maintain our website may interrupt our normal operations, including our ability to provide quotes, process orders, ship products, provide services and support to our customers, bill and track our customers, fulfill contractual obligations and otherwise run our business, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.
Any failure to successfully maintain our website or any significant downtime or outages affecting our website could have a material adverse impact on our operating results.
These flaws, or fixes to these flaws, may have a negative impact on the performance of our products, which could result in additional costs, liability claims, reduced revenue, or harm to our reputation or competitive position, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our operating results.
The loss of the services of one or more of our key employees in the future could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.
We also believe our future success will depend upon our ability to attract and retain additional highly skilled management, technical, marketing, research and development, and operational personnel with experience in managing large and rapidly changing companies, as well as training, motivating and supervising employees.
Failure to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified technical personnel, including software engineers, or retain our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.
Our Operations are Subject to a Variety of Environmental Regulations and Costs that May Have a Material Adverse Effect on our Business and Results of our Operations.


