item1.txt
In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated financial statements reflect all adjustments (consisting only of normal recurring items) considered necessary to present fairly our financial position at June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the results of our operations and comprehensive income for three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, and the cash flows for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017.
Our operating results for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the year ending December 31, 2018.
Stock awards to acquire 697,800 shares and 6,800 shares for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and 350,800 shares and 13,500 shares for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, were excluded in the computations of diluted EPS because the effect of including the stock awards would have been anti-dilutive.
There were no other significant changes in our accounting policies during the six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Shipping and handling costs associated with outbound freight after control over a product has transferred to a customer are accounted for as a fulfillment cost and are in included in cost of sales.
Under the new revenue standard, we are no longer required to establish vendor-specific objective evidence ("VSOE") to recognize software license revenue separately from the other elements, and we are able to recognize all software license revenue once the customer obtains control of the license, which will generally occur at the start of each license term.
Product revenues are primarily generated from the sale of off-the-shelf modular test and measurement hardware components and related drivers, and application software licenses.
The primary purpose of our invoicing terms is to provide customers with simplified and predictable ways of purchasing our products and services, not to receive financing from our customers, such as invoicing at the beginning of a subscription term with a portion of the revenue recognized ratably over the contract period, or to provide customers with financing, such as multi-year on-premises licenses that are invoiced annually with revenue recognized upfront.
For the six months ended June 30, 2018, revenue recognized from performance obligations related to prior periods (for example, due to changes in transaction price) was not material.
Based on the nature of our contracts with customers, we do not typically recognize unbilled receivables related to revenues recognized in excess of amounts billed.
For the six months ended June 30, 2018 amounts recognized related to unbilled receivables were not material.
Revenue expected to be recognized in any future period related to remaining performance obligations, excluding revenue pertaining to contracts that have an original expected duration of one year or less, and excluding contracts where revenue is recognized as invoiced, was approximately $54.5 million as of June 30, 2018.
As of June 30, 2018, we expect to recognize approximately 25% of the revenue related to these unsatisfied performance obligations during the remainder of 2018, 40% during 2019, and 35% thereafter.
•We do not disclose the value of unsatisfied performance obligations for (i) contracts with an original expected length of one year or less and (ii) contracts for which we recognize revenue at the amount to which we have the right to invoice for services performed.
We value our available-for-sale short-term investments based on pricing from third party pricing vendors, who may use quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (Level 1 inputs) or inputs other than quoted prices that are observable either directly or indirectly (Level 2 inputs) in determining fair value.
For those derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as hedging instruments, we designate the hedging instrument, based upon the exposure being hedged, as a fair value hedge, cash flow hedge, or a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation.
Sales outside of the Americas accounted for approximately 62% of our net sales during each of the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, and approximately 62% and 61% of our net sales during the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Our activities expose us to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
We purchase foreign currency forward contracts as hedges of forecasted sales that are denominated in foreign currencies and as hedges of foreign currency denominated financial assets or liabilities.
These contracts are entered into to help protect against the risk that the eventual dollar-net-cash inflows resulting from such sales or firm commitments will be adversely affected by changes in exchange rates.
These contracts are entered into to help protect against the risk that the eventual dollar-net-cash outflows resulting from foreign currency operating and cost of sales expenses will be adversely affected by changes in exchange rates.
To help protect against the reduction in value caused by a fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates of forecasted foreign currency cash flows resulting from international sales over the next one to three years, we have instituted a foreign currency cash flow hedging program.
We hedge portions of our forecasted net sales and forecasted expenses denominated in foreign currencies with forward contracts.
For forward contracts, when the dollar strengthens significantly against the foreign currencies, the change in the present value of future foreign currency cash flows may be offset by the change in the fair value of the forward contracts designated as hedges.
For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative is reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (“OCI”) and reclassified into earnings in the same line item (net sales, operating expenses, or cost of sales) associated with the forecasted transaction and in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings.
Gains and losses on the derivative representing either hedge ineffectiveness or hedge components excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized in current earnings or expenses during the current period and are classified as a component of “net foreign exchange gain (loss).” Hedge effectiveness of foreign currency forwards designated as cash flow hedges are measured by comparing the hedging instrument’s cumulative change in fair value from inception to maturity to the forecasted transaction’s terminal value.
At June 30, 2018, we expect to reclassify $2.2 million of gains on derivative instruments from accumulated OCI to net sales during the next twelve months when the hedged international sales occur, $0.2 million of gains on derivative instruments from accumulated OCI to cost of sales during the next twelve months when the cost of sales are incurred and $0.3 million of gains on derivative instruments from accumulated OCI to operating expenses during the next twelve months when the hedged operating expenses occur.
The gains and losses recognized in earnings due to hedge ineffectiveness were not material for each of the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 and are included as a component of net income under the line item “net foreign exchange gain (loss).”
Other derivatives not designated as hedging instruments consist primarily of foreign currency forward contracts that we use to hedge our foreign denominated net receivable or net payable positions to help protect against the change in value caused by a fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates.
The gain or loss on the derivatives as well as the offsetting gain or loss on the hedge item attributable to the hedged risk is recognized in current earnings under the line item “net foreign exchange gain (loss).” As of June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, we held foreign currency forward contracts that were not designated as hedging instruments with a notional amount of $34 million and $63 million, respectively.
Software development costs capitalized for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 were $3.9 million and $13.7 million, respectively, and related amortization expense was $6.8 million and $5.5 million, respectively.
For the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, capitalized software development costs were $11.9 million and $26.0 million, respectively, and related amortization expense was $12.9 million and $10.8 million, respectively.
Capitalized software development costs for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 included costs related to stock based compensation of $0.2 million and $0.5 million, respectively.
For the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, capitalized software development costs included costs related to stock based compensation of $0.5 million and $1.0 million, respectively.
The tax position of our Hungarian operations resulted in income tax benefits of $2.9 million and $4.4 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $4.6 million and $7.3 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The income tax benefits of the tax holiday for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 were approximately $0.5 million and $1.1 million, respectively.
The impact of the tax holiday on a per share basis for each of the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 was a benefit of $0.01 per share.
The income tax benefits of the tax holiday for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 were approximately $0.6 million and $1.1 million, respectively.
The impact of the tax holiday on a per share basis for each of the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 was a benefit of $0.01 per share.
During the three months ended June 30, 2018, we did not make any changes in accounting principles or methods of estimates related to the 2005, 2010 and 2015 Plans.
We issued 455,642 shares under this plan in the six months ended June 30, 2018 and the weighted average purchase price of the employees’ purchase rights was $36.48 per share.
During the six months ended June 30, 2018, we did not make any changes in accounting principles or methods of estimates with respect to such plan.
Revenue from the sale of our products, which are similar in nature, and software maintenance is reflected as total net sales in our Consolidated Statements of Income.
(See "Note 2 -Revenue" of Notes to consolidated financial statements for total net sales by the major geographic areas in which we operate).
Based on the billing location of the customer, total sales outside the U.S. for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 were $222 million and $204 million, respectively, and $422 million and $393 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
As of June 30, 2018, we had outstanding guarantees for payment of customs and foreign grants totaling approximately $2.1 million, which are generally payable over the next twelve months.
If our existing or potential customers do not perceive our latest product offerings as providing significant new functionality or value, or if we are late to market with a new product or technology, we may not achieve our expected return on our investments or be able recover the costs expended to develop new product offerings, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.
Our Reported Financial Results May be Adversely Affected by Changes in Accounting Principles Generally Accepted in the U.S. We prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) and the Securities and Exchange Commission.
A change in these policies or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results and our internal controls over financial reporting, may retroactively affect previously reported results, could cause unexpected financial reporting fluctuations, and may require us to make costly changes to our operational processes and accounting systems.
In many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by U.S. regulations applicable to us such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Although we have policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors and agents, including those based in or from countries where practices which violate such U.S. laws may be customary, will not take actions in violation of our policies.
In the past, we have noted that significant volatility in foreign currency exchange rates in the markets in which we do business has had a significant impact on the revaluation of our foreign currency denominated firm commitments, on our ability to forecast our U.S. dollar equivalent net sales and expenses and on the effectiveness of our hedging programs.
See “Results of Operations” in this Form 10-Q for further discussion on the effect that changes in the foreign currency exchange rates have had on our operating results.
Orders With a Value of Greater than One Million Dollars Expose Us to Significant Additional Business and Legal Risks that Could Have a Material Adverse Impact on our Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
At times these orders include terms that impose critical delivery commitments and severe contractual liabilities if we fail to provide the required quantity of products at the required delivery times, impose product acceptance requirements and product performance evaluation requirements which create uncertainty with respect to the timing of our ability to recognize revenue from such orders, allow the customers to cancel or delay orders without liability, require us to develop specific product mitigation plans for product delivery constraints caused by unexpected or catastrophic situations to help assure quick production recovery, and that require most favored customer pricing, significant discounts, extended payment terms and volume rebates.
Because of Keysight’s strong position in the instrumentation business, changes in its marketing strategy or product offerings could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.
These flaws, or fixes to these flaws, may have a negative impact on the performance of our products, which could result in additional costs, liability claims, reduced revenue, or harm to our reputation or competitive position, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our operating results.
The loss of the services of one or more of our key employees in the future could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.
We also believe our future success will depend upon our ability to attract and retain additional highly skilled management, technical, marketing, research and development, and operational personnel with experience in managing large and rapidly changing companies, as well as training, motivating and supervising employees.
Failure to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified technical personnel, including software engineers or retain our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.
Our Operations are Subject to a Variety of Environmental Regulations and Costs that May Have a Material Adverse Effect on our Business and Results of our Operations.


item2.txt
The following table sets forth our net sales for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 along with the changes between the corresponding periods.
The year over year increase in software maintenance for each of the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 was driven by increased adoption of our software platform and changes to the renewal pricing of annual software maintenance for many of our products.
A significant factor in the continued expansion of these orders in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, compared to the comparable periods in 2017 was strong demand for data acquisition hardware and software products, including enterprise-wide licensing agreements, indicating broader adoption of our platform.
The following table sets forth our net sales by geographic region for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 along with the changes between the corresponding periods and the region’s percentage of total net sales.
During the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, these hedges had the effect of decreasing our net sales by $1.3 million and increasing our net sales by $0.7 million, respectively.
During the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, these hedges had the effect of decreasing our net sales by $3.9 million and increasing our net sales by $2.7 million, respectively.
(See “Note 5 - Derivative instruments and hedging activities” of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion regarding our cash flow hedging program and its related impact on our net sales for 2018 and 2017).
The following table sets forth our operating expenses for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 along with the percentage changes between the corresponding periods and the line item as a percentage of total net sales.
During the three months ended June 30, 2018, operating expenses were up 7% year over year, which was primarily the result of a $10 million increase in research and development expenses related to a decrease in software development costs eligible for capitalization and a $5.4 million increase due to the year over year change in exchange rates.
In the three months ended June 30, 2018, we capitalized $3.9 million of software development costs compared to $13.7 million in the three months ended June 30, 2017.
For the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, operating income was $37 million and $29 million, respectively, an increase of 29%.
As a percentage of net sales, operating income was 10.8% and 9.0% for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
For the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, operating income was $65 million and $51 million, respectively, an increase of 28%.
As a percentage of net sales, operating income was 10.0% and 8.2% for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The increases in operating income in absolute dollars for the three months ended June 30, 2018, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2017, and for the six months ended June 30, 2018, compared to the six months ended June 30, 2017, are attributable to the factors discussed in Net Sales, Gross Profit and Operating Expenses above.
For the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, interest income was $1.3 million and $0.5 million, respectively.
The gain or loss on these derivatives as well as the offsetting gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is recognized in current earnings under the line item “Net foreign exchange gain (loss).” Our hedging strategy decreased our foreign exchange loss by $1.6 million and decreased our foreign exchange gain by $0.6 million in the three months ended June 30, 2018 and June 30, 2017, respectively.
Our hedging strategy increased our foreign exchange loss by $0.2 million and decreased our foreign exchange gain by $3.2 million in the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Investing Activities Cash used for investing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2018 increased by $51 million compared to the same period in 2017.
Due to this change in how we develop these software products, we expect the portion of software development expenditures that will be recognized as research and development expenses when incurred, and consequently, classified as operating cash flows, to increase in future periods.
Financing Activities Cash used by financing activities increased by $5 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017.


part2.txt
If our existing or potential customers do not perceive our latest product offerings as providing significant new functionality or value, or if we are late to market with a new product or technology, we may not achieve our expected return on our investments or be able recover the costs expended to develop new product offerings, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.
A change in these policies or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results and our internal controls over financial reporting, may retroactively affect previously reported results, could cause unexpected financial reporting fluctuations, and may require us to make costly changes to our operational processes and accounting systems.
Failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines or termination of import and export privileges, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.
Any failure to effectively deal with the risks above could result in an interruption in the operations of our facilities in Hungary or Malaysia which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.
Any failure or delay in distribution from our facilities in Hungary and Malaysia could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.
In the past, we have noted that significant volatility in foreign currency exchange rates in the markets in which we do business has had a significant impact on the revaluation of our foreign currency denominated firm commitments, on our ability to forecast our U.S. dollar equivalent net sales and expenses and on the effectiveness of our hedging programs.
See “Results of Operations” in this Form 10-Q for further discussion on the effect that changes in the foreign currency exchange rates have had on our operating results.
Orders With a Value of Greater than One Million Dollars Expose Us to Significant Additional Business and Legal Risks that Could Have a Material Adverse Impact on our Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
These arrangements expose us to significant additional legal and operational risks which could result in a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.
Our Product Revenues are Dependent on Certain Industries and Contractions in these Industries Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Results of Operations.
As we have experienced in the past, and as we may continue to experience in the future, downturns characterized by diminished product demand in any one or more of these industries may result in decreased sales and a material adverse effect on our operating results.
We cannot predict when and to what degree contractions in these industries may occur; however, any sharp or prolonged contraction in one or more of these industries could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.
In the short-term, these actions may lead to business disruptions, decreased productivity and unanticipated employee turnover which may have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations.
Concentrations of Credit Risk and Uncertain Conditions in the Global Financial Markets May Adversely Affect Our Business and Results of Operations.
There can be no assurance that any losses or impairments to the carrying value of our financial assets as a result of defaults by our counterparties would not materially and adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations.
Because of Keysight’s strong position in the instrumentation business, changes in its marketing strategy or product offerings could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.
Tax Law Changes in Hungary Could Have a Negative Impact on our Effective Tax Rate, Earnings and Results of Operations.
These tax benefits may not be available in future years due to changes in political conditions in Hungary or changes in tax laws in Hungary or in the U.S. The reduction or elimination of these benefits in Hungary could result in an increase in our future effective income tax rate which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.
The expiration of the tax holiday in Malaysia could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.
In the event that any of our distributors experience significant financial or operational difficulties due to adverse global economic conditions or if we experience disruptions in the use of these distributors, our business and operating results would likely be adversely impacted until we are able to secure another distributor or establish direct sales capabilities in the affected market.
Failure to properly maintain our website may interrupt our normal operations, including our ability to provide quotes, process orders, ship products, provide services and support to our customers, bill and track our customers, fulfill contractual obligations and otherwise run our business, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.
Any failure to successfully maintain our website or any significant downtime or outages affecting our website could have a material adverse impact on our operating results.
These flaws, or fixes to these flaws, may have a negative impact on the performance of our products, which could result in additional costs, liability claims, reduced revenue, or harm to our reputation or competitive position, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our operating results.
The loss of the services of one or more of our key employees in the future could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.
We also believe our future success will depend upon our ability to attract and retain additional highly skilled management, technical, marketing, research and development, and operational personnel with experience in managing large and rapidly changing companies, as well as training, motivating and supervising employees.
Failure to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified technical personnel, including software engineers or retain our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.
Our Operations are Subject to a Variety of Environmental Regulations and Costs that May Have a Material Adverse Effect on our Business and Results of our Operations.


