item1.txt
In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated financial statements reflect all adjustments (consisting only of normal recurring items) considered necessary to present fairly our financial position at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the results of our operations and comprehensive income for three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, the cash flows for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 and the statement of stockholder's equity for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019.
Our operating results for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the year ending December 31, 2019.
Upon adoption, we recognized lease liabilities of approximately $52 million, with corresponding ROU assets of the same amount, based on the present value of the remaining minimum rental payments under current leasing standards for our existing operating leases.
Additionally, we also reclassified approximately $19 million from "Property, plant and equipment, net" to "Operating lease right-of-use assets" related to prepaid leasehold land.
The PRSU awards granted during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 include a market condition as defined by ASC 718.
There were no other significant changes in our accounting policies during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
Stock-based compensation costs are based on the fair value on the date of grant for all restricted stock units ("RSUs") and on the date of enrollment for the employee stock purchase plan.
The market condition currently used is our stockholder return relative to the total stockholder return of the companies included in the Russell 2000 Index at the end of the three-year performance period.
Operating leases are included in operating lease ROU assets and operating lease liabilities (current and non-current) on our consolidated balance sheet.
Operating lease ROU assets and operating lease liabilities are recognized based on their present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term at commencement date.
Additionally, for certain equipment leases, we apply a portfolio approach to effectively account for the operating lease ROU assets and liabilities.
Stock awards to acquire 1,611,000 shares and 36,600 shares for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and 568,000 shares and 537,000 shares for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, were excluded in the computations of diluted EPS because the effect of including the stock awards would have been anti-dilutive.
The primary purpose of our invoicing terms is to provide customers with simplified and predictable ways of purchasing our products and services, not to receive financing from our customers, such as invoicing at the beginning of a subscription term with a portion of the revenue recognized ratably over the contract period, or to provide customers with financing, such as multi-year on-premises licenses that are invoiced annually with revenue recognized upfront.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2019, revenue recognized from performance obligations satisfied in prior periods (for example, due to changes in transaction price) was not material.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2019, amounts recognized related to unbilled receivables were not material.
Revenue expected to be recognized in any future period related to remaining performance obligations, excluding revenue pertaining to contracts that have an original expected duration of one year or less, and excluding contracts where revenue is recognized as invoiced, was approximately $57 million as of September 30, 2019.
Total capitalized costs to obtain a contract were immaterial during the periods presented and are included in other long-term assets on our consolidated balance sheets.
We value our available-for-sale short-term investments based on pricing from third party pricing vendors, who may use quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (Level 1 inputs) or inputs other than quoted prices that are observable either directly or indirectly (Level 2 inputs) in determining fair value.
For those derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as hedging instruments, we designate the hedging instrument, based upon the exposure being hedged, as a fair value hedge, cash flow hedge, or a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation.
Sales outside of the Americas accounted for approximately 58% and 59% of our net sales during the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and approximately 60% and 61% of our net sales during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
We purchase foreign currency forward contracts as hedges of forecasted sales that are denominated in foreign currencies and as hedges of foreign currency denominated financial assets or liabilities.
These contracts are entered into to help protect against the risk that the eventual dollar-net-cash inflows resulting from such sales or firm commitments will be adversely affected by changes in exchange rates.
These contracts are entered into to help protect against the risk that the eventual dollar-net-cash outflows resulting from foreign currency operating and cost of sales expenses will be adversely affected by changes in exchange rates.
We designate foreign currency forward contracts as cash flow hedges of forecasted net sales or forecasted expenses.
To help protect against the reduction in value caused by a fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates of forecasted foreign currency cash flows resulting from international sales over the next one to three years, we have instituted a foreign currency cash flow hedging program.
For forward contracts, when the dollar strengthens significantly against the foreign currencies, the change in the present value of future foreign currency cash flows may be offset by the change in the fair value of the forward contracts designated as hedges.
For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative is reported as a component of accumulated OCI and reclassified into earnings in the same line item (net sales, operating expenses, or cost of sales) associated with the forecasted transaction and in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings.
Gains and losses on the derivative representing either hedge ineffectiveness or hedge components excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized in current earnings or expenses during the current period and are classified as a component of “net foreign exchange loss.” Hedge effectiveness of foreign currency forwards designated as cash flow hedges are measured by comparing the hedging instrument’s cumulative change in fair value from inception to maturity to the forecasted transaction’s terminal value.
At September 30, 2019, we expect to reclassify $11.6 million of gains on derivative instruments from accumulated OCI to net sales during the next twelve months when the hedged international sales occur, $1.9 million of losses on derivative instruments from accumulated OCI to cost of sales during the next twelve months when the hedged cost of sales are incurred and $1.3 million of losses on derivative instruments from accumulated OCI to operating expenses during the next twelve months when the hedged operating expenses occur.
The gains and losses recognized in earnings due to hedge ineffectiveness were not material for each of the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 and are included as a component of net income under the line item “net foreign exchange loss.”
Other derivatives not designated as hedging instruments consist primarily of foreign currency forward contracts that we use to hedge our foreign denominated net receivable or net payable positions to help protect against the change in value caused by a fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates.
The gain or loss on the derivatives as well as the offsetting gain or loss on the hedge item attributable to the hedged risk is recognized in current earnings under the line item “net foreign exchange loss.” As of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, we held foreign currency forward contracts that were not designated as hedging instruments with a notional amount of $47 million and $71 million, respectively.
The following tables present the fair value of derivative instruments on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.
Software development costs capitalized for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 were $2.8 million and $1.9 million, respectively, and related amortization expense was $7.1 million and $6.9 million, respectively.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, capitalized software development costs were $7.5 million and $13.8 million, respectively, and related amortization expense was $20.9 million and $19.9 million, respectively.
Capitalized software development costs for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 included costs related to stock-based compensation of $0.2 million and $0.1 million, respectively.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, capitalized software development costs included costs related to stock-based compensation of $0.3 million and $0.6 million, respectively.
As of September 30, 2019, we have additional operating leases, that have not commenced during the period, which were not material.
The tax position of our Hungarian operations resulted in income tax benefits of $1.6 million and $2.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $4.2 million and $7.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The income tax benefits of the tax holiday for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 were approximately $1.8 million and $3.1 million, respectively.
The income tax benefits of the tax holiday for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 were approximately $0.8 million and $1.9 million, respectively.
The impact of the tax holiday on a per share basis for each of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 was a benefit of $0.01 and $0.02, respectively.
The impact of the tax holiday on a per share basis for each of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 was a benefit of $0.01.
At the time of approval, 4,050,000 shares of our common stock were reserved for issuance under this plan, as well as the number of shares which had been reserved but not issued under our 1994 Incentive Plan (the “1994 Plan”) which terminated in May 2005, and any shares that returned to the 1994 Plan as a result of termination of options or repurchase of shares issued under such plan.
The 2015 Plan, administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors, provides for the granting of incentive awards in the form of restricted stock and RSUs to employees, directors and consultants and employees and consultants of any subsidiary and such awards may be subject to performance-based vesting conditions.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we granted PRSUs to certain executives under our 2015 Plan.
We issued 699,837 shares under this plan in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and the weighted average purchase price was $36.90 per share.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we did not make any changes in accounting principles or methods of estimates with respect to such plan.
Under the current program, during the three months ended September 30, 2019, we repurchased 1,056,078 shares of our common stock at a weighted average price per share at $42.42 and during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we repurchased 3,205,676 shares of our common stock at a weighted average price per share of $42.79.
Based on the billing location of the customer, total sales outside the U.S. for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 were $208 million and $213 million, respectively, and $617 million and $635 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
In many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by U.S. regulations applicable to us such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Although we have policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors and agents, including those based in or from countries where practices which violate such U.S. laws may be customary, will not take actions in violation of our policies.
A change in these policies or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results and our internal controls over financial reporting, may retroactively affect previously reported results, could cause unexpected financial reporting fluctuations, and may require us to make costly changes to our operational processes and accounting systems.
Orders with a Value of Greater than One Million Dollars Expose Us to Significant Additional Business and Legal Risks that Could Have a Material Adverse Impact on our Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
At times these orders include terms that impose critical delivery commitments and severe contractual liabilities if we fail to provide the required quantity of products at the required delivery times, impose product acceptance requirements and product performance evaluation requirements which create uncertainty with respect to the timing of our ability to recognize revenue from such orders, allow the customers to cancel or delay orders without liability, require us to develop specific product mitigation plans for product delivery constraints caused by unexpected or catastrophic situations to help assure quick production recovery, and that require most favored customer pricing, significant discounts, extended payment terms and volume rebates.


item2.txt
The following table sets forth our net sales for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 along with the changes between the corresponding periods.
The slight decreases in our net sales during the three and nine month periods ended September 30, 2019 were primarily related to the adverse impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
During the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, these hedges had the effect of increasing our net sales by $3.3 million and increasing our net sales by $1.4 million, respectively.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, these hedges had the effect of increasing our net sales by $7.7 million and decreasing our net sales by $2.5 million, respectively.
The decreases in our gross profit during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, compared to the same periods in 2018 are primarily attributable to lower net sales.
The increase in our gross profit as a percentage of net sales for the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018 is primarily attributable to lower restructuring charges partially offset by unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
The decrease in our gross profit as a percentage of net sales for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018 is primarily attributable to unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
For the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, the change in exchange rates had the effect of decreasing our cost of sales by $0.7 million and increasing our cost of sales by $0.02 million, respectively.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, the change in exchange rates had the effect of decreasing our cost of sales by $3.6 million and increasing our cost of sales by $4.0 million, respectively.
During the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, these hedges had the effect of increasing our cost of sales by $0.2 million and decreasing our cost of sales by $0.1 million, respectively.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, these hedges had the effect of increasing our cost of sales by $0.2 million and decreasing our cost of sales by $0.7 million, respectively.
The following table sets forth our operating expenses for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, along with the percentage changes between the corresponding periods and the line item as a percentage of total net sales.
As a percentage of net sales, operating income was 19.1% and 13.3% for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
As a percentage of net sales, operating income was 12.3% and 11.1% for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The increase in operating income in absolute dollars for the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018, and for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2018, are attributable to the factors discussed in Net Sales, Gross Profit and Operating Expenses above.
See “Results of Operations - Net Sales” above for additional discussion on the impact of foreign exchange rates on our net sales of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019.
The gain or loss on these derivatives as well as the offsetting gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is recognized in current earnings under the line item “Net foreign exchange loss.” Our hedging strategy decreased our foreign exchange loss by $0.3 million and decreased our foreign exchange loss by $0.9 million in the three months ended September 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018, respectively.
Our hedging strategy increased our foreign exchange loss by $0.1 million and decreased our foreign exchange loss by $0.7 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Cash provided by operating activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 decreased by $38 million compared to the same period in 2018.
This was primarily due to an $10 million decrease in net income adjusted for certain non-cash items, including stock-based compensation, depreciation and amortization, and gain on sale of assets, and $25 million related to unfavorable changes in operating assets and liabilities.
Investing Activities Cash provided (used in) by investing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 increased by $122 million compared to the, same period in 2018.


item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines or termination of import and export privileges, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.
If our existing or potential customers do not perceive our latest product offerings as providing significant new functionality or value, or if we are late to market with a new product or technology, we may not achieve our expected return on our investments or be able recover the costs expended to develop new product offerings, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.
Our Product Revenues are Dependent on Certain Industries and Contractions in these Industries Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Results of Operations.
As we have experienced in the past, and as we may continue to experience in the future, downturns characterized by diminished product demand in any one or more of these industries may result in decreased sales and a material adverse effect on our operating results.
We cannot predict when and to what degree contractions in these industries may occur; however, any sharp or prolonged contraction in one or more of these industries could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.
A change in these policies or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results and our internal controls over financial reporting, may retroactively affect previously reported results, could cause unexpected financial reporting fluctuations, and may require us to make costly changes to our operational processes and accounting systems.
Any failure to effectively deal with the risks above could result in an interruption in the operations of our facilities in Hungary or Malaysia which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.
Any failure or delay in distribution from our facilities in Hungary and Malaysia could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.
In the past, we have noted that significant volatility in foreign currency exchange rates in the markets in which we do business has had a significant impact on the revaluation of our foreign currency denominated firm commitments, on our ability to forecast our U.S. dollar equivalent net sales and expenses and on the effectiveness of our hedging programs.
Orders with a Value of Greater than One Million Dollars Expose Us to Significant Additional Business and Legal Risks that Could Have a Material Adverse Impact on our Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
In the short-term, these actions may lead to business disruptions, decreased productivity and unanticipated employee turnover which may have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations.
Our Acquisitions are Subject to a Number of Related Costs and Challenges that Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business and Results of Operations.
In addition, successful acquisitions generally require, among other things, integration of product offerings, manufacturing operations and coordination of sales and marketing and research and development efforts.
The integration of operations following an acquisition also requires the dedication of management resources, which may distract attention from our day-to-day business and may disrupt key research and development, marketing or sales efforts.
The existing products previously sold by entities we have acquired may be of a lesser quality than our products or could contain errors that produce incorrect results on which users rely or cause failure or interruption of systems or processes that could subject us to liability claims that could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial position.
The expiration of the tax holiday in Malaysia could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.
In the event that any of our distributors experience significant financial or operational difficulties due to adverse global economic conditions or if we experience disruptions in the use of these distributors, our business and operating results would likely be adversely impacted until we are able to secure another distributor or establish direct sales capabilities in the affected market.
If we were to experience a shutdown, disruption or attack, it would adversely impact our product shipments and net sales, as order processing and product distribution are heavily dependent on our management information systems.
Failure to properly maintain our website may interrupt our normal operations, including our ability to provide quotes, process orders, ship products, provide services and support to our customers, bill and track our customers, fulfill contractual obligations and otherwise run our business, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.
Any failure to successfully maintain our website or any significant downtime or outages affecting our website could have a material adverse impact on our operating results.
These bugs, vulnerabilities, errors or design flaws, or fixes to these issues, may have a negative impact on the performance of our products, which could result in additional costs, liability claims, reduced revenue, or harm to our reputation or competitive position, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our operating results.
The loss of the services of one or more of our key employees in the future could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.
We also believe our future success will depend upon our ability to attract and retain additional highly skilled management, technical, marketing, research and development, and operational personnel with experience in managing large and rapidly changing companies, as well as training, motivating and supervising employees.
Failure to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified technical personnel, including software engineers, or retain our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.
Our Operations are Subject to a Variety of Environmental Regulations and Costs that May Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business and Results of Operations.


