Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.





The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on November 19, 2018. The following discussion may contain forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates, and beliefs and involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed within “Forward-Looking Statements” below and in Item 1A. Risk Factors and “Forward-Looking Statements” included within our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on November 19, 2018.



Forward-Looking Statements



This document contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. You should not place undue reliance on these statements. Forward-looking statements generally can be identified by the use of words or phrases such as “believe,” “expect,” “expectation,” “anticipate,” “may,” “could,” “intend,” “belief,” “estimate,” “plan,” “target,” “predict,” “likely,” “will,” “should,” “forecast,” “outlook,” or other similar words or phrases. These statements are not based on historical facts, but instead reflect our expectations, estimates, or projections concerning future results or events, including, without limitation, the future earnings and performance of Edgewell Personal Care Company (“Edgewell”, “we” or “our Company”) or any of our businesses. These statements are not guarantees of performance and are inherently subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated by those statements. We cannot assure you that any of our expectations, estimates or projections will be achieved. The forward-looking statements included in this report are only made as of the date of this report, and we disclaim any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement to reflect subsequent events or circumstances, except as required by law. 



In addition, other risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently consider immaterial could significantly affect the forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements should be evaluated with the understanding of their inherent uncertainty. Risks and uncertainties include those detailed from time to time in our publicly filed documents, including in Item 1A. Risk Factors of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on November 19, 2018.



Non-GAAP Financial Measures



While we report financial results in accordance with GAAP, this discussion also includes Non-GAAP measures. These Non-GAAP measures are referred to as “adjusted” or “organic” and exclude items such as restructuring charges, advisory expenses in connection with the evaluation of the Feminine and Infant Care businesses, the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, investor settlement expense, the Jack Black, L.L.C. (“Jack Black”) acquisition and integration costs, Sun Care reformulation charges, and the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”). Reconciliations of Non-GAAP measures are included within this Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.





•We analyze our net sales and segment profit on an organic basis to better measure the comparability of results between periods. Organic net sales and organic segment profit exclude the impact of changes in foreign currency, acquisitions, and dispositions (including the acquisition of Jack Black through February 2019 and the disposition of the Playtex gloves business through October 2018). This information is provided because these types of fluctuations can distort the underlying change in net sales and segment profit either positively or negatively.



•Adjusted net earnings and adjusted earnings per share are defined as net earnings and diluted earnings per share excluding items such as restructuring charges, Feminine and Infant Care evaluation costs, the gain on the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, investor settlement expense, Jack Black acquisition and integration costs, Sun Care reformulation charges, the related tax effects of these items, and the impact of the Tax Act.





•Adjusted effective tax rate is defined as the effective tax rate excluding items such as restructuring charges, advisory expenses in connection with the evaluation of the Feminine and Infant Care businesses, the gain on the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, investor settlement expense, Jack Black acquisition and integration costs, Sun Care reformulation charges, the related tax effects of these items, and the impact of the Tax Act from the income tax provision and earnings before income taxes.



•Free cash flow is defined as net cash from operating activities less net capital expenditures. Free cash flow conversion is defined as free cash flow as a percentage of net earnings adjusted for the net impact of non-cash impairments.



All comparisons are with the same period in the prior year, unless otherwise noted.



Industry and Market Data



Unless we indicate otherwise, we base the information concerning our industry contained or incorporated by reference herein on our general knowledge of and expectations concerning the industry. Our market position, market share, and industry market size are based on our estimates using internal data and data from various industry analyses, our internal research and adjustments, and assumptions that we believe to be reasonable. We have not independently verified data from industry analyses and cannot guarantee accuracy or completeness. In addition, we believe that data regarding the industry, market size and our market position and market share within such industry provide general guidance but are inherently imprecise. Further, our estimates and assumptions involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various factors, including those discussed in the “Risk Factors” section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on November 19, 2018. These, and other factors, could cause results to differ materially from those expressed in the estimates and assumptions.



Retail sales for purposes of market size, market position and market share information are based on retail sales in U.S. dollars.



Trademarks and Trade Names



We own or have rights to use trademarks and trade names that we use in conjunction with the operation of our business, which appear throughout this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We also may refer to brand names, trademarks, service marks and trade names of other companies and organizations, and these brand names, trademarks, service marks and trade names are the property of their respective owners.



Significant Events



Project Fuel



In February 2018, we announced Project Fuel, an enterprise-wide transformational initiative that is designed to address all aspects of our business and cost structure, simplifying and transforming the organization, structure and key processes that will provide the necessary catalyst for further re-investment in the Company’s growth objectives while enabling us to achieve our desired future state operations. 



The project will incorporate our Zero-Based Spending (“ZBS”) and global productivity initiatives and will include a new global restructuring initiative. Initial costs for Project Fuel relate to efforts to fully define the scope and reach of the project. In addition, the Company has incurred global severance costs related to the reduction of overhead. While the Company incurred costs and realized savings for Project Fuel in fiscal 2018, most costs will be incurred and savings will be achieved during fiscal 2019 through fiscal 2021.



For further information on our restructuring projects, refer to Note 4 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.



Feminine and Infant Care Evaluation Costs







Sun Care Reformulation Costs





Acquisitions



On March 1, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Jack Black, a leading U.S. based luxury men’s skincare products company, for approximately $90.2, net of cash acquired. The acquisition will create opportunities to expand our personal care portfolio in growing categories in the U.S. and globally, while nurturing the brand equity of Jack Black. The results of Jack Black for the post-acquisition period are included within our results since the acquisition date. Refer to Note 3 of our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion related to the acquisition of Jack Black.



Sale of Playtex Gloves Business



On October 26, 2017, the Company finalized its sale of the Playtex gloves business to a household products company (the “Acquirer”) for $19.0. The sale was finalized on October 26, 2017. The sale provides the Acquirer with indefinite and exclusive worldwide rights to the Playtex trademark for gloves. The strategic sale of the Playtex gloves business will allow the Company to better focus and utilize its resources on its other product lines. Total assets sold were $3.1, resulting in a pre-tax gain on sale of $15.9 in the first six months of fiscal 2018. The gain on sale of Playtex gloves recognized for fiscal year 2018 was $15.3. Refer to Note 3 of our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion related to the sale of the Playtex gloves business. 



Executive Summary 



The following is a summary of key results for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019 compared to the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018. Net earnings and earnings per share (“EPS”) for the time periods presented were impacted by restructuring activities, Feminine and Infant Care evaluation costs, Jack Black acquisition and integration costs, investor settlement expenses, Sun Care reformulation costs, the gain on the sale of the Playtex gloves business, the related tax impact from those costs, and the impact of the Tax Act as described in the table below. The impact of these items on reported net earnings and EPS are provided as a reconciliation of net earnings and EPS to adjusted net earnings and adjusted diluted EPS, both of which are Non-GAAP measures.

































Operating Results 



The following table presents changes in net sales for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019, as compared to the corresponding periods in fiscal 2018, and provides a reconciliation of organic net sales to reported amounts.



Net Sales





For the second quarter of fiscal 2019, net sales were $546.7, a 10.1% decrease when compared with the prior year quarter. Excluding the impact of the acquisition of Jack Black and currency movements, organic net sales decreased 8.9% driven by declines in Wet Shave, North America Sun and Skin Care and Feminine Care businesses, partly offset by Infant Care and International Sun and Skin Care businesses. Organic net sales in both North America and Internationally declined 9%. The decline in net sales was driven by North America Wet Shave, Sun and Skin Care and Feminine Care, driven by competitive pressure in key retailers and product launches in the prior year period, as well as declines in International, which were largely driven by expected lower Wet Shave net sales in Asia Pacific due to commercial distribution changes implemented in Japan that created a difficult comparison to the prior year.





For the first six months of fiscal 2019, net sales decreased 6.7%. Excluding the impact of the acquisition of Jack Black, the Playtex gloves sale, and currency movements, organic net sales decreased 6.5% versus the prior year period. From a geographic perspective, organic net sales in North America declined 8% while International decreased 4%. The decline in organic net sales was primarily due to declines across all segments in North America and International Wet Shave, driven by competitive pressure in key retailers and anniversary of prior year product launches and promotions. 



For further discussion regarding net sales, including a summary of reported versus organic changes, see “Segment Results.”



Gross Profit 



Gross profit was $250.9 during the second quarter of fiscal 2019, as compared to $301.1 in the prior year period. Gross margin as a percent of net sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was 45.9%, representing a 360 basis point decline over the prior year gross margin of 49.5%. Excluding $0.4 of costs associated with the Sun Care Reformulation, gross margin decreased 350 basis points to 46.0%. The decline was the result of lower volumes across Wet Shave, Sun and Skin Care, and Feminine Care (90 basis points) from prior year product launches and competition, unfavorable price mix in Wet Shave and Feminine Care in North America (140 basis points), and unfavorable cost mix (120 basis points) in Wet Shave.



Gross profit was $444.4 during the first six months of fiscal 2019, as compared to $500.4 in the prior year period. Gross margin as a percent of net sales for the first six months of fiscal 2019 was 44.3%, down 220 basis points as compared to the prior year period. The impact of lower volumes across all segments (90 basis points) from prior year product launches and competition, unfavorable price mix in Wet Shave related to a price decrease in North America and Feminine Care (90 basis points), and unfavorable cost mix in Wet Shave and All Other (40 basis points). 



Selling, General and Administrative Expense







Advertising and Sales Promotion Expense









Research and Development Expense







Interest Expense Associated with Debt



Interest expense associated with debt for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was $16.4, a decrease from the prior year period of $18.2. For the first six months of fiscal 2019, interest expense was $32.4 compared to $36.0 in the prior year period. The decline in interest expense was the result of lower outstanding debt as the Company paid the Term Loan Due April 2019 offset by additional borrowings under the U.S. revolving credit facility in fiscal 2019. 



Other Income, Net





Income Tax Provision



The effective tax rate for the first six months of fiscal 2019 was 33.0% compared to 39.7% in the prior year period. The effective tax rate for the first six months of fiscal 2019 includes a $4.7 net transitional charge resulting from the enactment of the Tax Act. The rate was also unfavorably impacted by $33.9 of restructuring and other related costs in lower tax rate jurisdictions and unfavorable tax adjustments, including the impact of equity compensation. The effective tax rate for the prior period includes a $17.4 increase in tax expense related to net charges from the Tax Act. Excluding the tax impact of restructuring charges, advisory expenses incurred in connection with the evaluation of the Feminine Care and Infant Care businesses, investor settlement expenses, Jack Black acquisition and integration costs, Sun Care reformulation charges, the impact of the Tax Act, and the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, the adjusted effective tax rate was 24.9% and 24.8% for the first six months of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, respectively. The adjusted effective tax rate for fiscal 2019 is expected to be in the range of 23.5% to 25.5%; however, both the effective tax rate and the adjusted effective tax rate are dependent upon the mix of earnings in various tax jurisdictions.











Savings Initiatives



Project Fuel is an enterprise-wide transformational initiative, launched in the second fiscal quarter of 2018, designed to address all aspects of our business and cost structure, simplifying and transforming the organization, structure and key processes that will provide the necessary catalyst for further re-investment in the Company’s growth objectives while enabling us to achieve its desired future state operations. 



We expect Project Fuel will generate $225 to $240 in total annual gross savings by the end of the 2021 fiscal year. It is expected that the savings generated will be used to fuel investments and brand building in strategic growth initiatives, offset anticipated operational headwinds from inflation and other rising input costs, and improve our overall profitability and cash flow.



To implement the restructuring element of Project Fuel, we estimate one-time pre-tax charges to be approximately $130 to $140, with an additional capital investment of $60 to $70 through the end of fiscal year 2021. 



Project Fuel restructuring charges were $15.4 and $33.9 for the three and six months ended March 31, 2019. Project Fuel restructuring charges totaled $3.7 for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018. Additionally, capital expenditures for Project Fuel were $7.6 and $12.9, respectively. Project Fuel related savings were approximately $29 and $54 for the three and six months ending March 31, 2019, respectively, bringing cumulative savings to approximately $70. 



For further information on our restructuring projects, refer to Note 4 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.



Segment Results



The following tables present changes in segment net sales and segment profit for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and provide a reconciliation of organic segment net sales and organic segment profit to reported amounts. For a reconciliation of segment profit to Earnings before income taxes, refer to Note 15 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 



Wet Shave





Wet Shave net sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased 14.7%, inclusive of a 2.8% decline, due to currency movements. Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales decreased $41.0, or 11.9%, reflecting the impact of lower volumes and pricing in North America and lower volumes in International markets. By region, North America organic net sales declined 11% and International markets declined 12%. North America sales decreased as a result of declines in key retailers, price decreases in Men’s and Women’s Systems, and the anniversary of the launch of Intuition f.a.b.™ in the prior year quarter. International sales declines were led by the Asia Pacific region, primarily driven by an expected quarterly phasing shift in sales in Japan and the impact of new product launches in the prior year. In Europe, sales declines were driven by prior year launches of Schick Hydro Sense® and Intuition f.a.b. Growth in Wet Shave net sales was driven through the launch of the Bulldog razor for Men’s systems, the launch of Skintimate® disposables, and growth in women’s private brands. 



Wet Shave net sales for the first six months of fiscal 2019 decreased 8.9%, inclusive of a 2.2% decline due to currency movements. Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales decreased $42.9, or 6.7%. North America organic net sales was down 9%, while International organic net sales decreased 5%. Men's Systems volumes declined in North America due to competitive pressures. Additionally, North America experienced unfavorable price mix caused by a price decrease in Men’s and Women’s Systems. Asia Pacific volumes were down primarily due to a shift in the timing of sales related to prior year promotions and product launches. Women's Systems declined globally due to the timing of the launch of Intuition f.a.b. in the prior year and a price decrease in North America and Europe. Finally, net sales of Disposables were down, primarily due to category declines in North America.











Sun and Skin Care



Sun and Skin Care segment net sales and segment profit are affected by the seasonality of sun care products. As a result, segment net sales and segment profit historically have been higher in the second and third quarters of the fiscal year. 





Sun and Skin Care net sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased 4.7%, inclusive of a 3.5% increase due to the acquisition of Jack Black and a 1.6% decline due to currency movements. Excluding the impact of the Jack Black acquisition and currency movements, organic net sales decreased $10.1, or 6.6% with declines in North America impacted by the Sun Care reformulation project and phasing of sales to the third quarter, partially offset by growth in Asia Pacific and Latin America, while Europe remained flat. The decline in Sun and Skin Care was the result of lower Banana Boat volumes, while there were increased sales in Hawaiian Tropic. Grooming net sales increased, partially offset by declines in Skin Care. 



Sun and Skin Care net sales for the first six months of fiscal 2019 increased 0.2%, inclusive of an 8.1% increase due to the acquisition of Jack Black, a 0.5% decline due to the Playtex gloves sale and a 1.5% decline due to currency movements. Excluding the impact of acquisitions, the Playtex gloves sale and currency movements, organic net sales decreased $12.4, or 5.9%, with volume declines primarily in North America and Latin America. The decline in Sun Care was related to declines in Banana Boat sales in North America impacted by the Sun Care reformulation project. Hawaiian Tropic saw growth internationally and Grooming had growth in Bulldog which was partially offset by declines in Skin Care. 











Feminine Care





Feminine Care net sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased $5.7, or 7.1%, inclusive of a 0.3% decline due to the impact of currency movements. Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales decreased 6.8%, driven by volume declines across all lines, except for o.b. tampons behind the launch of organic o.b. products and Sport Tampons. Unfavorable price mix was the result of increased trade spend investment.



Feminine Care net sales for the first six months of fiscal 2019 decreased $13.6, or 8.3%, inclusive of a 0.2% decline due to the impact of currency movements. Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales decreased 8.1% driven by volume declines in Gentle Glide branded tampons and Stayfree branded pads and Carefree liners, partially offset by growth in Sport and o.b. tampons.











All Other





All Other net sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 increased 7.3%, inclusive of a 1.0% decline from the impact of currency movements. Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales increased 8.3% compared to the prior year quarter driven by increased Diaper Genie volumes in eCommerce and volume growth in cups and mealtime related to the Paw Patrol® launch.



All Other net sales for the first six months of fiscal 2019 decreased 3.7%, inclusive of a 0.8% decline due to the impact of currency movements. Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales decreased $1.8 or 2.9%, as declines in volumes of Diaper Genie and infant bottles were partially offset by growth in infant cups and mealtime products.





All Other segment profit for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was $6.0, an increase of $1.7, or 39.5%, driven primarily by higher volumes of Diaper Genie and favorable price mix from reduced trade spend in the quarter.





General Corporate and Other Expenses







For the second quarter of fiscal 2019, general corporate expenses were $16.7, or 3.1% of net sales, compared to $19.2, or 3.2% of net sales, in the prior year quarter. For the first six months of fiscal 2019, general corporate expenses were $30.4, or 3.0% of net sales, compared to $37.9, or 3.5% of net sales, in the prior year period. Corporate expenses for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 remained flat compared to the prior year quarter. For the first six months of fiscal 2019, the declines in corporate expense was driven by savings generated through our corporate savings initiatives driving lower compensation expense and prior year one-time expenses such as severance and asset write offs.



Liquidity and Capital Resources



At March 31, 2019, substantially all our cash balances were located outside the U.S. Given our extensive international operations, a significant portion of our cash is denominated in foreign currencies. We manage our worldwide cash requirements by reviewing available funds among the many subsidiaries through which we conduct business and the cost effectiveness with which those funds can be accessed. We generally repatriate a portion of current year earnings from select non-U.S. subsidiaries only if the economic cost of the repatriation is not considered material.



The counterparties to deposits consist of several major financial institutions. We consistently monitor positions with, and credit ratings of, counterparties both internally and by using outside ratings agencies. 



Our total borrowings were $1,328.9 at March 31, 2019, including $215.0 tied to variable interest rates. Our total borrowings at September 30, 2018 were $1,300.2.



As of March 31, 2019, we had outstanding borrowings of $215.0 under our unsecured revolving credit facility in the U.S. (the “Revolving Facility”) and $8.5 of outstanding letters of credit. Taking into account outstanding borrowings and outstanding letters of credit at March 31, 2019, $501.5 remains available under the Revolving Facility. At September 30, 2018, we had outstanding borrowings of $7.0 under the Revolving Facility. As of September 30, 2018, we had approximately $185.0 outstanding under the term loan due April 2019 (the “Term Loan”). On February 6, 2019, the Company made a $185.0 prepayment to retire the Term Loan. The Company funded the payment through additional borrowing on the Revolving Facility.



We had outstanding international borrowings, recorded in Notes payable, of $13.9 and $8.2 as of March 31, 2019 and September 30, 2018, respectively.



We expect that fiscal 2019 free cash flow will be above 100% of GAAP net earnings. Historically, we have generated and expect to continue to generate positive cash flows from operations. Our cash flows are affected by the seasonality of our sun care products, resulting in higher net sales and increased cash generated in the second and third quarter each year. We believe our cash on hand, cash flows from operations and available borrowing under our current credit facility will be sufficient to satisfy our future working capital requirements, interest payments, research and development activities, capital expenditures, and other financing requirements for at least the next twelve months. 



Short-term financing needs primarily consist of working capital requirements, principal, and interest payments on our long-term debt. Long-term financing needs will depend largely on potential growth opportunities, including acquisition activity and repayment or refinancing of our long-term debt obligations. We may, from time-to-time, seek to repurchase shares of our common stock. Such repurchases, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. Our long-term liquidity may be influenced by our ability to borrow additional funds, renegotiate existing debt, and raise equity under terms that are favorable to us.



The expected minimum required contribution to our pension plans in fiscal 2019 is $7.3; however, discretionary contributions may also be made. During the first six months of fiscal 2019 we contributed $2.5 to our pension plans.



As of March 31, 2019, we were in compliance with the provisions and covenants associated with our debt agreements.





Cash Flows







Operating Activities



Cash flow used by operating activities was $31.9 during the first six months of fiscal 2019, compared to cash from operating activities of $61.6 during the same period in the prior year. The decline in operating cash flow in the first six months of fiscal 2019 was primarily driven by working capital changes as the build in inventory for the Sun Care season in North America and the shift of Easter into the fiscal third quarter. Additionally, accounts payable were higher at the end of fiscal 2018 as compared to March 31, 2019, resulting from the timing of payments and reduction in spending.



Investing Activities



Cash flow used by investing activities was $13.9 during the first six months of fiscal 2019, compared to cash used by investing activities of $88.9 during the same period in the prior year. The change was primarily due to the acquisition of Jack Black for $90.3 in the prior year period offset by the sale of the Playtex gloves business in fiscal 2018 for $19.0. Capital expenditures totaled $22.9 during the first six months of fiscal 2019 and included $12.9 of capital expenditures in support of Project Fuel, compared to $27.6 during the same period in the prior year. Additionally, investing cash inflows of $5.0 and $5.3 were reclassified from operating activities as a result of collections on the deferred purchase price of accounts receivables sold. 



Financing Activities



Net cash from financing activities was $27.3 during the first six months of fiscal 2019, compared to net cash used by financing activities of $243.2 during the same period in the prior year. During the second quarter of fiscal 2019, we had $208.0 of additional borrowings under the Revolving Facility, offset by repayment of the Term Loan due April 2019 for $185.0. During the first six months of fiscal 2018, net borrowings on the Revolving Facility decreased $122.0 and $124.4 of cash was used for treasury stock repurchases.



Share Repurchases



During the first six months of fiscal 2019, we did not repurchase any common stock. We have 10.0 common shares available for repurchase in the future under the Board’s authorization to repurchase our common shares. Any future share repurchases may be made in the open market, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise, in such amounts and at such times as we deem appropriate based upon prevailing market conditions, business needs and other factors.



Commitments and Contingencies



Contractual Obligations





There have been no other material changes in our contractual obligations since the presentation in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on November 19, 2018.





Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.













Item 6. Exhibits.







SIGNATURES



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.





