Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.





The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on November 20, 2017. The following discussion may contain forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates and beliefs and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed within "Forward-Looking Statements" below, and in Item 1A. Risk Factors and "Forward-Looking Statements" included within our Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Non-GAAP Financial Measures. While we report financial results in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("reported" or "GAAP"), this discussion also includes Non-GAAP measures. These Non-GAAP measures are referred to as "adjusted" or "organic" and exclude items such as impairment charges, the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Tax Act"), costs associated with the acquisition and integration of Jack Black, L.L.C. ("Jack Black"), restructuring charges and amortization of intangibles. Reconciliations of Non-GAAP measures are included within this Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.





•We analyze our net sales and segment profit on an organic basis to better measure the comparability of results between periods. Organic net sales and segment profit exclude the impact of changes in foreign currency, acquisitions and dispositions. This information is provided because these types of fluctuations can distort the underlying change in net sales and segment profit either positively or negatively. For the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, the impact of acquisitions includes net sales and segment profit activity for Jack Black, which was acquired in March 2018. For the nine months ended June 30, 2018, the impact of acquisitions also includes October 2017 net sales and segment profit for Bulldog Skincare Holdings Limited (“Bulldog”), which was acquired in October 2016.



•Adjusted net earnings and adjusted earnings per share are defined as net earnings and diluted earnings per share excluding items such as impairment charges, Jack Black integration costs, restructuring charges, the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, the related tax effects of these items and the impact of the Tax Act.



•Adjusted effective tax rate is defined as the effective tax rate excluding items such as impairment charges, Jack Black integration costs, restructuring charges, the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, the related tax effects of these items and the impact of the Tax Act from the income tax provision and earnings before income taxes.



•Free cash flow is defined as operating cash flows less any capital expenditures in current year.



All comparisons are with the same period in the prior year, unless otherwise noted.



Industry and Market Data. Unless we indicate otherwise, we base the information concerning our industry contained or incorporated by reference herein on our general knowledge of and expectations concerning the industry. Our market position, market share and industry market size are based on our estimates using internal data and data from various industry analyses, our internal research and adjustments and assumptions that we believe to be reasonable. We have not independently verified data from industry analyses and cannot guarantee its accuracy or completeness. In addition, we believe that data regarding the industry, market size and our market position and market share within such industry provide general guidance but are inherently imprecise. Further, our estimates and assumptions involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various factors, including those discussed in the "Risk Factors" section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K. These and other factors could cause results to differ materially from those expressed in the estimates and assumptions.



Retail sales for purposes of market size, market position and market share information are based on retail sales in United States ("U.S.") dollars.



Trademarks and Trade Names. We own or have rights to use trademarks and trade names that we use in conjunction with the operation of our business, which appear throughout this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We also may refer to brand names, trademarks, service marks and trade names of other companies and organizations, and these brand names, trademarks, service marks and trade names are the property of their respective owners.





Forward-Looking Statements. This document contains both historical and forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not based on historical facts, but instead reflect our expectations, estimates or projections concerning future results or events, including, without limitation, the future earnings and performance of Edgewell Personal Care Company or any of our businesses. These statements generally can be identified by the use of forward-looking words or phrases such as "believe," "expect," "expectation," "anticipate," "may," "could," "intend," "belief," "estimate," "plan," "target," "predict," "likely," "will," "should," "forecast," "outlook," or other similar words or phrases. These statements are not guarantees of performance and are inherently subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated by those statements. We cannot assure you that any of our expectations, estimates or projections will be achieved. The forward-looking statements included in this document are only made as of the date of this document, and we disclaim any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. Numerous factors could cause our actual results and events to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements, including, without limitation:



•We face risks associated with global economic conditions.



•Competition in our industries may hinder our ability to execute our business strategy, achieve profitability, or maintain relationships with existing customers.



•Loss of any of our principal customers could significantly decrease our sales and profitability.



•Our inability to execute a successful e-commerce strategy could have a significant impact on our business.



•Changes in production costs, including raw material prices, could erode our profit margins and negatively impact operating results.



•Loss of reputation of our leading brands or failure of our marketing plans could have an adverse effect on our business.



•We are subject to risks related to our international operations, including currency fluctuations, which could adversely affect our results of operations.



•We face risks arising from our ongoing efforts to achieve cost savings.



•If we cannot continue to develop new products in a timely manner, and at favorable margins, we may not be able to compete effectively.



•We may not be able to continue to identify and complete strategic acquisitions and effectively integrate acquired companies to achieve desired financial benefits.



•A failure of a key information technology system or a breach of our information security could adversely impact our ability to conduct business.



•Our business is subject to increasing global regulation, including product related regulations and environmental regulations, that may expose us to significant liabilities.



•Our access to capital markets and borrowing capacity could be limited.



•Impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets would result in a reduction in net income.



•Legislative changes in applicable tax laws, policies and regulations or unfavorable resolution of tax matters may result in additional tax liabilities, which could adversely impact our cash flows and results of operations.



•Our manufacturing facilities, supply channels or other business operations may be subject to disruption from events beyond our control.



•We have a substantial level of indebtedness and are subject to various covenants relating to such indebtedness, which could limit our discretion to operate and grow our business.



•Our business is subject to seasonal volatility.



•There can be no guarantee that we will repurchase stock.



•We do not expect to pay dividends for the foreseeable future.



•If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, competitors may manufacture and market similar products, which could adversely affect our market share and results of operations.



•Our financial results could be adversely impacted by the United Kingdom's departure from the European Union.



•Our business involves the potential for product liability and other claims against us, which could affect our results of operations and financial condition and result in product recalls or withdrawals.



•Our business could be negatively impacted as a result of stockholder activism or an unsolicited takeover proposal or a proxy contest.



•We may not be able to attract, retain and develop key personnel.





•We may experience losses or be subject to increased funding and expenses related to our pension plans.



•Certain provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws, and of Missouri law, could deter or delay a third-party's effort to acquire us, especially if the Board determines it is not in the best interest of our shareholders.



•The trading price of our common shares may be volatile.



•If the Separation of our household products business on July 1, 2015 (the "Separation"), together with certain related transactions, does not qualify as a transaction that is generally tax free for U.S. federal income tax purposes, our shareholders could be subject to significant tax liabilities.



•Indemnifications under the Separation agreement with Energizer Holdings, Inc. ("Energizer") or Energizer’s inability to satisfy indemnification obligations in the future could negatively impact our financial results.



In addition, other risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently consider immaterial could significantly affect the accuracy of any such forward-looking statements. The list of factors above is illustrative, but not exhaustive. All forward-looking statements should be evaluated with the understanding of their inherent uncertainty. Additional risks and uncertainties include those detailed from time to time in our publicly filed documents, including in Item 1A. Risk Factors of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Overview



Edgewell Personal Care Company and its subsidiaries (collectively, "Edgewell"), is one of the world's largest manufacturers and marketers of personal care products in the wet shave, sun and skin care, feminine care and infant care categories. We have a portfolio of over 25 brands and a broad global footprint that operates in more than 50 countries. 





•Wet Shave consists of products sold under the Schick®, Wilkinson Sword®, Edge®, Skintimate®, Shave Guard and Personna® brands, as well as non-branded products. Our wet shave products include razor handles and refillable blades, disposable shave products and shaving gels and creams.



•Sun and Skin Care consists of Banana Boat® and Hawaiian Tropic® sun care products, Bulldog® and Jack Black® men's skin care products, Wet Ones® wipes and Playtex® household gloves until the sale of the gloves business in October 2017. Refer to Note 2 of our Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details regarding the acquisition of Jack Black and Note 3 of our Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details on the sale of the Playtex household gloves business.



•Feminine Care includes tampons, pads and liners sold under the Playtex Gentle Glide® and Sport®, Stayfree®, Carefree® and o.b.® brands.



•All Other includes infant care products, such as bottles, cups and pacifiers, sold under the Playtex®, OrthoPro® and Binky® brand names, as well as the Diaper Genie® and Litter Genie® disposal systems.



The personal care product categories are highly competitive, both in the U.S. and on a global basis, as large manufacturers with global operations compete for consumer acceptance and, increasingly, limited retail shelf space. Competition is based upon brand perception, product performance, customer service and price. The markets are generally characterized by the frequent introduction of new products, accompanied by major advertising and promotional programs. Our priority is to deliver our strategic objectives, focusing on maximizing sales and profit growth through innovation, product line extensions and share gains, and we continue to target improved working capital management as a key business objective.



Significant Events



Impairment



During the third quarter of fiscal 2018, we determined a triggering event had occurred as a result of a sustained decline in our market capitalization. We performed an interim impairment analysis using financial information through June 30, 2018 and forecasts for cash flows developed using our three year strategic plan. The interim impairment review was performed across all reporting units and indefinite lived intangible assets and we found the carrying value of the goodwill of our Infant Care reporting unit to be above its fair value, resulting in a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $24.4. The impairment of the Infant Care reporting unit was caused by declining revenue and earnings forecasts and higher discount rates. Higher discount rates were the result of certain market-based assumptions and company specific risks. Refer to Note 7 of our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion on the interim impairment test. We will continue to evaluate the fair value of our reporting units and indefinite lived intangible assets in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 as a part of our annual impairment review.





Acquisitions



On March 1, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Jack Black, a leading U.S. based luxury men's skincare products company based in the United States, for approximately $90.2, net of cash acquired. The acquisition will create opportunities to expand our personal care portfolio in growing categories in the U.S. and globally, while nurturing the brand equity of Jack Black. The results of Jack Black for the post-acquisition period are included within our results since the acquisition date. Refer to Note 2 of our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion related to the acquisition of Jack Black.



On October 31, 2016, we completed the acquisition of Bulldog, a men's grooming and skincare products company based in the United Kingdom for $34.0, net of cash acquired. The acquisition created opportunities to expand our personal care portfolio into a growing global category where we can leverage our international geographic footprint. The acquisition was financed through available foreign cash. The results of Bulldog for the post-acquisition period are included within our results for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018 and 2017.



Project Fuel



In February 2018, we launched Project Fuel, an enterprise-wide transformational initiative designed to address all aspects of our business and cost structure. The project will incorporate our existing Zero Based Spending ("ZBS") and global productivity initiatives and will include a new global restructuring initiative. While we are incurring costs for Project Fuel beginning in fiscal 2018, the majority of costs and savings under Project Fuel are expected to take place during fiscal 2019 through fiscal 2021.



In addition to the expected cost savings and improved profitability, Project Fuel is designed to strengthen our challenger culture and reinforce our consumer-centric organizational focus. It is also designed to simplify the organization and streamline ways of working in order to increase competitiveness, speed and agility, and ensure we have the skills, capabilities and investments needed to compete in a rapidly changing world. 



For further information on our restructuring projects, see Note 4 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.



Sale of Playtex Gloves Business



We completed the sale of the Playtex gloves business to a household products company for $19.0 on October 26, 2017. The sale allows us to better focus and utilize resources on other product lines. Total assets sold were approximately $3.7 resulting in a pre-tax gain on sale of $15.3.



Executive Summary 



Following is a summary of key results for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018. Net earnings and earnings per share ("EPS") for the time periods presented were impacted by the impairment charge, the acquisition of Jack Black, the gain on the sale of the Playtex gloves business, restructuring activities, the related tax impact from these charges and the impact of the Tax Act as described in the table below. The impact of these items on reported net earnings and EPS are provided as a reconciliation of net earnings and EPS to adjusted net earnings and adjusted diluted EPS, which are Non-GAAP measures.





















Operating Results 



The following table presents changes in net sales for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018, as compared to the corresponding periods in fiscal 2017, and provides a reconciliation of organic net sales to reported amounts.



Net Sales







For the first nine months of fiscal 2018, net sales decreased 2.1%. Excluding the impact of acquisitions, the Playtex gloves sale and currency movements, organic net sales decreased 4.4% versus the prior year period. From a geographic perspective, organic net sales in North America declined 6%, while International markets experienced a 2% decline. The decline in organic net sales was primarily due to declines in Wet Shave, particularly in North America, driven by competitive pressure and category declines and Feminine Care volume declines, partially offset by growth in Skin Care due to Bulldog and Wet Ones. 



For further discussion regarding net sales, including a summary of reported versus organic changes, see "Segment Results."



Gross Profit 



Gross profit was $302.7 during the third quarter of fiscal 2018, as compared to $322.1 in the prior year period. Gross margin as a percent of net sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was 48.8%, representing a 170 basis point decline over the prior year period gross margin of 50.5%, primarily driven by unfavorable volume mix within Wet Shave, unfavorable cost mix, primarily related to higher input costs, and negative price mix in the Sun Care business, due to increased promotional activity in support of new products and a higher level of product returns. 



Gross profit was $805.1 during the first nine months of fiscal 2018, as compared to $859.7 in the prior year period. Gross margin as a percent of net sales for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 was 47.4%, down 220 basis points as compared to the prior year period. The decline was primarily driven by lower sales volumes in Wet Shave and Feminine Care, unfavorable cost mix from Wet Shave and Sun Care and unfavorable price mix from Wet Shave promotions and Sun Care returns, partially offset by favorable foreign currency impact.



Selling, General and Administrative Expense









Advertising and Sales Promotion Expense







Research and Development Expense





Interest Expense Associated with Debt



Interest expense associated with debt for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was $16.5, a decline from the prior year period expense of $17.6. For the first nine months of fiscal 2018, interest expense was $52.5 compared to $52.3 in the prior year period. The decline in interest expense primarily relates to lower outstanding debt during the third quarter of fiscal 2018. Interest expense associated with debt remained flat for the nine months ending June 30, 2018 compared to the prior year period, as lower average debt was more than offset by interest rate increases on variable rate debt. 



Other Expense (Income), Net



Other expense (income), net was expense of $3.5 during the third quarter of fiscal 2018, compared to income of $1.6 in the third quarter of fiscal 2017. Other expense (income), net was expense of $6.3 during the first nine months of fiscal 2018, compared to income of $10.1 during the first nine months of fiscal 2017. The current year periods reflect the negative impact of foreign currency exchange contract gains and losses and the revaluation of nonfunctional currency balance sheet exposures.



Income Tax Provision



The effective tax rate for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 and 2017 was 42.9% and 16.2%, respectively. The effective tax rate for the first nine months of 2018 and 2017 was 40.2% and 22.9%, respectively. The effective tax rate for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 includes a $17.4 increase in tax expense related to net charges from the Tax Act and the impact of the Infant Care goodwill impairment, which more than offset the lower U.S. Federal tax rate. Excluding the impairment charge, gain on the sale of the Playtex gloves business, net tax expense from the Tax Act, costs related to the acquisition and integration of Jack Black and restructuring charges, the adjusted effective tax rate was 24.4% and 23.9% for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 and 2017, respectively. Our adjusted effective tax rate for fiscal 2018 is expected to be in the range of 23% to 25%; however, the adjusted effective tax rate is dependent upon the mix of earnings in various tax jurisdictions.











Savings Initiatives



Our ZBS initiative was established to capture savings and establish cost-conscious spending policies consistent with our strategic needs. Net cost savings from our ZBS initiative are anticipated to be between $25 to $30 in fiscal 2018, which will be reinvested into marketing spend and our strategic growth initiatives.



In February 2018, we launched Project Fuel, an enterprise-wide transformational initiative designed to address all aspects of our business and cost structure. The project incorporates our existing ZBS and global productivity initiatives and includes a new global restructuring initiative. While we are incurring costs for Project Fuel beginning in fiscal 2018, the majority of costs and savings under Project Fuel are expected to take place during fiscal 2019 through fiscal 2021.



Project Fuel is expected to achieve $225 in total annual gross savings by the end of the 2021 fiscal year. It is expected that the savings generated will be used to fuel investments in strategic growth initiatives and brand building, offset anticipated operational headwinds from inflation and other rising input costs, and improve our overall profitability and cash flow.



In the third quarter, Project Fuel costs totaled $15.9 related to severance and consulting charges and information technology enablement costs. For fiscal year 2018, Project Fuel related restructuring charges and capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $50 and $3, respectively. We estimate one-time pre-tax charges related to Project Fuel to be approximately $120 to $130, with an additional capital investment of $60 to $70 through the end of the 2021 fiscal year to implement the restructuring element of Project Fuel. We anticipate that the majority of the one-time charges associated with these initiatives will be incurred by the end of the 2019 fiscal year. 



Segment Results



Segment performance is evaluated based on segment profit, exclusive of general corporate expenses, share-based compensation costs, costs associated with restructuring initiatives and the amortization of intangible assets. Financial items, such as interest income and expense, are managed on a global basis at the corporate level. The exclusion of such charges from segment results reflects management's view on how it evaluates segment performance.



Our operating model includes some shared business functions across the segments, including product warehousing and distribution, transaction processing functions and, in most cases, a combined sales force and management teams. We apply a fully allocated cost basis, in which shared business functions are allocated between the segments. Such allocations are estimates, and do not represent the costs of such services if performed on a stand-alone basis.



The following tables present changes in segment net sales and segment profit for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018, as compared to the corresponding periods in fiscal 2017, and provide a reconciliation of organic segment net sales and organic segment profit to reported amounts. For a reconciliation of segment profit to Earnings before income taxes, see Note 16 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.





Wet Shave





Wet Shave net sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 decreased 4.9%, inclusive of a 2.2% increase due to currency movements. Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales decreased $25.3, or 7.1%. International markets declined $19 or 10% organically, largely driven by a $15 trade inventory reduction in Japan. North America net sales declined $6 or 3.6%, largely driven by the impact of lost promotional sales in unmeasured club customers compared to a year ago. Total Men's Systems organic net sales declined 19%, driven by declines in North America and Asia Pacific. Total Women's Systems organic net sales increased over 2%, with growth in North America and Latin America, driven by Intuition f.a.b., partly offset by declines in Asia Pacific, related to the inventory reduction in Japan. Disposables organic net sales were down 3% digits, largely driven by volume declines in North America.



Wet Shave net sales for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 decreased 2.7%, inclusive of a 3.1% increase due to currency movements. Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales decreased $58.6, or 5.8%. Men's Systems declined 11% primarily due to North America distribution losses and inventory wholesaler reductions in Japan. North America Men's Systems experienced unfavorable price mix from higher trade spend and coupon expense. Women's Systems remained flat as growth related to the launch of Intuition f.a.b. was offset by declines Internationally. Disposable and Shave Prep volumes were down, primarily due to category declines in North America.











Sun and Skin Care



Sun and Skin Care segment net sales and segment profit are affected by the seasonality of sun care products. As a result, segment net sales and segment profit tend to be higher in the second and third quarters of the fiscal year. 





Sun and Skin Care net sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 increased 1.1%, inclusive of a 4.8% increase due to acquisitions, a 2.2% decline due to the Playtex gloves sale and a 1.1% increase due to currency movements. Excluding the impact of acquisitions, the Playtex gloves sale and currency movements, organic net sales decreased $4.2, or 2.6%, as growth in global Skin Care, Bulldog, and International Sun Care, was more than offset by sales declines in North America Sun Care. The declines in North America Sun Care were due to higher returns, slightly lower volumes, and the impact of the exit of the private label Sun Care business.



Sun and Skin Care net sales for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 increased 1.3%, inclusive of a 3.4% increase due to acquisitions, a 2.8% decline due to the Playtex gloves sale and a 1.3% increase due to currency movements. Excluding the impact of acquisitions, the Playtex gloves sale and currency movements, organic net sales decreased $2.2, or 0.6%, with strong performance in Skin Care as growth in Bulldog and Wet Ones during the first nine months were offset by declines in Hawaiian Tropic and the exit of the private label Sun Care business. Banana Boat experienced slight growth in sales through the first nine months of fiscal 2018. 







Segment profit for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 was $76.9, a decrease of $17.2 or 18.3%, inclusive of the impact of acquisitions, the Playtex gloves sale and currency movements. Excluding the impact of acquisitions, the Playtex gloves sale and currency movements, organic segment profit decreased $15.9, or 16.9%, driven primarily by gross margin declines from unfavorable price mix due to higher returns and unfavorable cost mix, offset by increased volumes.





Feminine Care





Feminine Care net sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 decreased $2.3, or 2.7%, inclusive of a 0.2% increase due to the impact of currency movements. Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales decreased 2.9% due to the decline in volumes for Tampons and Pads, while total Liners, led by Carefree, increased 5.2%.



Feminine Care net sales for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 decreased $11.7, or 4.5%, inclusive of a 0.3% increase due to the impact of currency movements. Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales decreased 4.8% driven by volume declines across Gentle Glide, o.b. and Sport branded tampons and Stayfree branded pads, partially offset by growth in Carefree branded liners.









All Other





All Other net sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 increased 3.5%, inclusive of a 1.0% increase due to the impact of currency movements. Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales increased $0.8, or 2.5%, primarily due to growth in Pet Care and favorable price mix in Infant Care. 



All Other net sales for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 decreased 2.9%, inclusive of a 0.9% increase due to the impact of currency movements. Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales decreased $3.7 or 3.8%, as declines in volumes of Diaper Genie and infant cups and bottles were partially offset by growth in pet care products.







All Other segment profit for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was $5.5, a decrease of $1.2, or 17.9%, inclusive of a 3.0% increase due to the impact of currency movements. Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic segment profit decreased 20.9%, primarily due to unfavorable cost mix driven by higher materials and warehouse and distribution costs.



All Other segment profit for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 was $17.0, a decrease of $4.3 or 20.3% compared to the prior year period, inclusive of a 2.7% increase due to the impact of currency movements. Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic segment profit decreased 23.0%, primarily due to unfavorable cost mix from higher volume of Diaper Genie refills and lower volumes of Diaper Genie and infant cups and bottles.



General Corporate and Other Expenses





For the third quarter of fiscal 2018, general corporate expenses were $17.5, or 2.8% of net sales, as compared to $18.2, or 2.9% of net sales, in the prior year quarter. For the first nine months of fiscal 2018, general corporate expenses were $54.7, or 3.2% of net sales, compared to $58.1, or 3.4% of net sales, in the prior year period. For both the quarter and nine month period, the decreases in general corporate expenses over the prior year period were primarily related to lower share-based and deferred compensation expense, as well as savings related to our ZBS program.



Liquidity and Capital Resources



We manage our worldwide cash requirements by reviewing available funds among the many subsidiaries through which we conduct business and the cost effectiveness with which those funds can be accessed. We generally repatriate a portion of current year earnings from select non-US subsidiaries only if the economic cost of the repatriation is not considered material. As a result of the Tax Act signed on December 22, 2017, we repatriated approximately $300 of cash from certain foreign subsidiaries during the second quarter of fiscal 2018. We utilized repatriated cash to invest in Jack Black and to reduce borrowings under the U.S. revolving credit facility. 



The counterparties to deposits consist of a number of major financial institutions. We consistently monitor positions with, and credit ratings of, counterparties both internally and by using outside ratings agencies. 



Our total borrowings were $1,305.9 at June 30, 2018, including $185.0 tied to variable interest rates. Our total borrowings at September 30, 2017 were $1,549.4.





As of June 30, 2018, we did not have any outstanding borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facility in the U.S. (the "Revolving Facility"). Letters of credit outstanding totaled $8.0 as of June 30, 2018. Taking into account outstanding borrowings and outstanding letters of credit at June 30, 2018, $717.0 remains available under the Revolving Facility. At September 30, 2017, we had outstanding borrowings of $245.0 under the Revolving Facility. As of June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, we had approximately $185.0 outstanding under a term loan. 



We had outstanding international borrowings, recorded in Notes payable, of $20.9 and $19.4 as of June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively.



The minimum required contribution to our pension plans in fiscal 2018 is $9.6; however, discretionary contributions may also be made. During the first nine months of fiscal 2018, we contributed $5.7 to our pension plans.



As of June 30, 2018, we were in compliance with the provisions and covenants associated with our debt agreements.



Cash Flows







Operating Activities



Cash flow from operating activities was $193.3 during the first nine months of fiscal 2018, as compared to $135.0 during the same period in the prior year. The improvement in operating cash flow was driven by changes in working capital, primarily in accounts receivable, inventory and other operating liabilities from Project Fuel. Changes in cash flows from Operating activities resulting from the Tax Act include a reduction in Net Earnings from the net transition charge of $17.4, a non-cash deferred tax adjustment and an offsetting change in operating assets and liabilities from the increase in current and long-term income taxes payable. We expect that fiscal 2018 free cash flow will be above 100% of GAAP net earnings.



Investing Activities



Cash flow used by investing activities was $108.3 during the first nine months of fiscal 2018 as compared to $73.5 during the same period in the prior year. The change was primarily due to the $90.2 acquisition of Jack Black in the second quarter of fiscal 2018, slightly offset by the $19.0 sale of the Playtex gloves business in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. In the prior year we purchased Bulldog for $34.0. Capital expenditures were $41.8 during the first nine months of fiscal 2018 and $45.4 during the same period in the prior year.





Financing Activities



Net cash used by financing activities was $371.4 during the first nine months of fiscal 2018 as compared to net cash used by financing activities of $350.2 during the same period in the prior year. The $21.2 increase in net cash used by financing activities was driven by $29.8 additional repurchases of common shares in the current year compared to the prior year partially offset by lower employee shares withheld for taxes in the current year.



Share Repurchases



During the first nine months of fiscal 2018, we repurchased 2.1 shares of our common stock for $124.4. In January 2018, the Board approved an authorization to repurchase up to 10.0 shares of our common stock, replacing the previous stock repurchase authorization from May 2015. Any future share repurchases would be made in the open market, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise, in such amounts and at such times as we deem appropriate based upon prevailing market conditions, business needs and other factors.



Commitments and Contingencies



Contractual Obligations





There have been no other material changes in our contractual obligations since the presentation in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, as filed with the SEC on November 20, 2017.



Environmental Matters



Our operations, like those of other companies, are subject to various federal, state, foreign and local laws and regulations intended to protect the public health and the environment. These regulations relate primarily to worker safety, air and water quality, underground fuel storage tanks and waste handling and disposal. It is difficult to quantify with certainty the cost of environmental matters, particularly remediation and future capital expenditures for environmental control equipment. Total environmental capital expenditures and operating expenses are not expected to have a material effect on our total capital and operating expenditures, consolidated earnings or competitive position. However, current environmental spending estimates could be modified as a result of changes in our plans or our understanding of underlying facts, changes in legal requirements, including any requirements related to global climate change, or other factors. 



Legal and Other Contingencies



We, and our affiliates, are subject to a number of legal proceedings in various jurisdictions arising out of our operations during the ordinary course of business. Many of these legal matters are in preliminary stages and involve complex issues of law and fact, and may proceed for protracted periods of time. The amount of liability, if any, from these proceedings cannot be determined with certainty. We review our legal proceedings and claims, regulatory reviews and inspections and other legal proceedings on an ongoing basis and follow appropriate accounting guidance when making accrual and disclosure decisions. We establish accruals for those contingencies when the incurrence of a loss is probable and can be reasonably estimated, and disclose the amount accrued and the amount of a reasonably possible loss in excess of the amount accrued, if such disclosure is necessary for our financial statements to not be misleading. We do not record liabilities when the likelihood that the liability has been incurred is probable, but the amount cannot be reasonably estimated. Based upon present information, we believe that our liability, if any, arising from such pending legal proceedings, asserted legal claims and known potential legal claims, which are likely to be asserted, is not reasonably likely to be material to our financial position, results of operations or cash flows, taking into account established accruals for estimated liabilities.





Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.



The following table sets forth the purchases of the Company's securities by the Company and any affiliated purchasers within the meaning of Rule 10b-18(a)(3) (17 CFR 240.10b-18(a)(3)) during the third quarter of fiscal 2018. 











