PART II. OTHER INFORMATION



ITEM 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS



Information regarding certain legal proceedings is provided in this Quarterly Report in “Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 6. Commitments and Contingencies.” We are also engaged in numerous other legal actions arising in the ordinary course of our business and, while there can be no assurance, we believe that the ultimate outcome of these other legal actions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.



ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS



We have provided updated Risk Factors in the section labeled “Risk Factors” in “Part I, Item 2, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” With the exception of prior changes to our Risk Factors in our Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended December 24, 2017, specifically changes to the risk factor labeled “Potential tax liabilities could adversely affect our results of operations” and the addition of the risk factor labeled “If we are unsuccessful in executing our cost plan, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected,” and changes to the risk factors labeled “Our proposed acquisition of NXP Semiconductors N.V. (NXP), and our intended termination of that acquisition, entails a number of risks that may adversely affect our business and results of operations,” “We may engage in 





strategic acquisitions, transactions or make investments, or be unable to consummate planned strategic acquisitions, which could adversely affect our results of operations or fail to enhance stockholder value” and “There are risks associated with our indebtedness and our significant proposed stock repurchase program” updated herein, we do not believe those updates have materially changed the type or magnitude of the risks we face in comparison to the disclosure provided in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K.



ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS









ITEM 3. DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIES



Not applicable.



ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES



Not applicable.



ITEM 5. OTHER INFORMATION



Not applicable.





ITEM 6. EXHIBITS



















SIGNATURES



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.



QUALCOMM Incorporated





 George S. Davis



 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer





