During the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, our five largest customers accounted for approximately 56% and 57% of our revenue, respectively. During the three months ended December 31, 2017, Samsung and Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, were our largest customers accounting for approximately 18% and 13%, respectively, of our revenue. During the three months ended December 31, 2016, Samsung, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC), and Micron Technology, Inc. were our largest customers accounting for approximately 16%, 14%, and 11%, respectively, of our revenue. 
During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, development of our in-process technology was completed, and we reclassified $4,000 to product technology under other intangible assets subject to amortization.  
We operate predominantly in one reportable segment, as defined under ASC 280 "Segment Reporting" – the development, manufacture, and sale of CMP consumables. 
Cabot Microelectronics Corporation ("Cabot Microelectronics'', "the Company'', "us'', "we'', or "our'') supplies high-performance polishing slurries and pads used in the manufacture of advanced integrated circuit (IC) devices within the semiconductor industry, in a process called chemical mechanical planarization (CMP). CMP polishes surfaces at an atomic level, thereby helping to enable IC device manufacturers to produce smaller, faster and more complex IC devices with fewer defects. We develop, produce and sell CMP slurries for polishing many of the conducting and insulating materials used in IC devices. We develop, manufacture and sell CMP polishing pads, which are used in conjunction with slurries in the CMP process. We also develop and provide products for demanding surface modification applications in other industries through our Engineered Surface Finishes (ESF) business. For additional information, refer to Part 1, Item 1, "Business", in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017. 
We utilize and rely upon a global workforce. If we fail to attract and retain the necessary managerial, technical and customer support personnel, our business and our ability to maintain existing and obtain new customers, develop new products and provide acceptable levels of customer service could suffer. We compete worldwide with other industry participants for qualified personnel, particularly those with significant experience in the semiconductor industry. The loss of services of key employees, or our inability to obtain or maintain visas or other travel or residency documents on their behalf with respect to our business needs, could harm our business and results of operations. Periodically, we engage in succession planning for our key employees, and our Board of Directors reviews succession planning for our executive officers, including our chief executive officer, on an annual basis. 
The Company's effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was 108.4%, compared to 20.3% in the same quarter last year. The significant increase is primarily driven by discrete adjustments related to recently enacted Tax Act in the U.S. These adjustments increased the Company's income tax expense by approximately $32,880 and had a $1.26 adverse impact on diluted earnings per share. Other factors that impacted the Company's effective tax rate for the three months ended December 31, 2017, as compared with the prior year period, were primarily related to the changes in the mix of foreign and domestic earnings and absence of benefits of a tax holiday in South Korea, which expired as of October 2017. The Company currently expects its effective tax rate for the remainder of the fiscal year to be within the range of 21% to 24%. Previously, before the impact of the Tax Act, the Company had estimated an effective tax rate of 24% to 27% for the full fiscal year. 
In particular, China is a fast-developing market for the semiconductor industry, and is an area of potential continued growth for us. As business volume between China and the rest of the world continues to grow, there is risk that geopolitical, regulatory and political matters could adversely affect trade for companies like ours based on the complex relationships among China, the United States, and other countries in the Asia Pacific region, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. In addition, there are risks that the Chinese government may, among other things, require the use of local suppliers, compel companies that do business in China to partner with local companies to conduct business, and, provide incentives to government-backed local customers to buy from local suppliers rather than companies like ours, all of which could adversely impact our business, including our results of operations. 
For the three months ended December 31, 2017, as noted above, all outstanding stock options were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share as the dilutive shares in a net loss situation would be anti-dilutive. For the three months ended December 31, 2016, approximately 0.4 million shares attributable to outstanding stock options were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share because their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive. 
We completed our annual impairment test during our fourth quarter of fiscal 2017 and concluded that no impairment existed. There were no indicators of potential impairment during the quarter ended December 31, 2017, so it was not necessary to perform an impairment review for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets during the quarter. There have been no impairment charges recorded on the goodwill for any of our reporting units. 
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-01 "Clarifying the Definition of a Business" (Topic 805). The provisions of this standard provide guidance to determine whether the acquisition or sale of a set of assets or activities constitutes a business. The standard requires that an integrated set of assets and activities include an input and a substantive process that together contribute to the ability to create output. We adopted ASU 2017-01 effective October 1, 2017, and this pronouncement had no material effect on our financial statements. 
The unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared by Cabot Microelectronics pursuant to the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP). In the opinion of management, these unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements include all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for the fair statement of Cabot Microelectronics' financial position as of December 31, 2017, cash flows for the three months ended December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, and results of operations for the three months ended December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016. The Consolidated Balance Sheets as of September 30, 2017 were derived from audited financial statements. The results of operations for the three months ended December 31, 2017 may not be indicative of results to be expected for future periods, including the fiscal year ending September 30, 2018. This Form 10-Q does not contain all of the footnote disclosures from the annual financial statements and should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes thereto included in Cabot Microelectronics' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017. Total research, development and technical expenses were $12.1 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017, which represented a decrease of 9.3%, or $1.2 million, from the three months ended December 31, 2016. The decrease was primarily due to lower staffing related expenses of $0.5 million, lower professional expenses of $0.4 million, and lower depreciation and amortization expense of $0.3 million. 
Selling and marketing expenses were $5.8 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017, which represented a decrease of 22.7%, or $1.7 million, from the three months ended December 31, 2016. The decrease was primarily due to the absence of severance expense of $0.7 million, and lower staffing related costs of $0.5 million. 
Revenue for our first quarter of fiscal 2018 was $140.0 million, which represented an increase of 13.6% from the first quarter of fiscal 2017, and was a quarterly record for the Company. We achieved record quarterly revenue in our tungsten slurry and polishing pads product areas. Revenue from our tungsten, pads and dielectrics products increased 13.7%, 16.5% and 8.4%, respectively, from the same quarter last year. 
Other income was $0.7 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017, and comparable to $1.0 million during the three months ended December 31, 2016. At December 31, 2017, we had $141.1 million in debt outstanding on our Term Loan. In fiscal 2015, we entered into interest rate swap agreements to hedge the variability in LIBOR-based interest rate payments on half of our outstanding debt. The notional amount of the swaps decreases each quarter by an amount in proportion to our scheduled quarterly principal repayment to maintain a fixed rate of interest on half of our outstanding debt. As of December 31, 2017, the fair value of this cash flow hedge was $0.4 million. At December 31, 2017, we had $70.5 million of outstanding debt at a variable rate of interest. Assuming a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in our current variable interest rate, our interest expense would increase by approximately $0.2 million per quarter. Our business is substantially dependent on CMP slurries and pads, which account for the majority of our revenue. Our business would suffer if these products became obsolete or if consumption of these products decreased. Our success depends on our ability to keep pace with technological changes and advances in the semiconductor industry and to adapt, improve and customize our products for advanced IC applications in response to evolving customer needs and industry trends. Since its inception, the semiconductor industry has experienced technological changes and advances in the design, manufacture, performance and application of IC devices. Our customers continually pursue lower cost of ownership and higher quality and performance of materials consumed in their manufacturing processes, including CMP slurries and pads, as a means to reduce costs, increase the yield in their manufacturing facilities, and achieve desired performance of the IC devices they produce. We expect these technological changes, and this drive toward lower costs, higher quality and performance and higher yields, will continue in the future. Potential technology developments in the semiconductor industry, as well as our customers' efforts to reduce consumption of CMP consumables, including through use of smaller quantities, could render our products less important to the IC device manufacturing process. 
During the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, our five largest customers accounted for approximately 56% and 57% of our revenue, respectively. During the three months ended December 31, 2017, Samsung and Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, were our largest customers accounting for approximately 18% and 13%, respectively, of our revenue. During the three months ended December 31, 2016, Samsung, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC), and Micron Technology, Inc. were our largest customers accounting for approximately 16%, 14%, and 11%, respectively, of our revenue. 
While we are not involved in any legal proceedings that we believe will have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows, we periodically become a party to legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business. 