Approximately 0.2 million shares for both the three and six months ended March 31, 2019 and 0.1 million shares for both the three and six months ended March 31, 2018, attributable to outstanding stock options were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share. 
We began to manage and report our results under the new organizational structure in conjunction with the KMG acquisition in fiscal 2019 and have reflected this change for all historical periods presented. Since the two segments operate independently and serve different markets and customers, there are no sales between segments. Revenue from external customers and segment adjusted EBITDA shown for Performance Materials for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 includes Cabot Microelectronics’ heritage QED business and an immaterial business that was sold in March 2018. The adjustments to segment EBITDA for the three and six months ended March 31, 2019 represent addbacks of KMG acquisition and integration related expenses, and a charge for the write-up of inventory acquired from KMG to fair value, for inventory sold in the period. There were no adjustments to segment EBITDA for the three months ended March 31, 2018. Unallocated corporate expenses include expenses associated with executive leadership and public company costs, and the unallocated portions of corporate functions including finance, legal, human resources, information technology, and corporate development not directly attributable to a reportable segment. 
Electronic Materials includes products and solutions for the semiconductor industry. We manufacture and sell CMP consumables, including CMP slurries and polishing pad products, and high-purity process chemicals used to etch and clean silicon wafers in the production of semiconductors, photovoltaics (solar cells) and flat panel displays. 
The excess of consideration transferred over the fair value of net assets acquired was recorded as goodwill, and is not deductible for income tax purposes. The goodwill is primarily attributable to anticipated revenue growth from the combined company product portfolio, expected synergies of the combined company, and the assembled workforce of KMG. The preliminary allocation of goodwill to each of the Electronic Materials and Performance Materials segments as a result of this Acquisition was $262,746 and $342,073, respectively. 
KMG’s results of operations have been included in our unaudited Consolidated Statements of Income and Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income from the Acquisition Date. Net sales of the acquired KMG business since the Acquisition Date through March 31, 2019 were $185,127. KMG’s net loss since the Acquisition Date was $5,561, which includes $19,996 of acquisition related costs and a $14,827 charge for fair value write-up of inventory sold. Further, additional amortization and depreciation expense associated with recording KMG’s net assets at fair value decreased KMG’s net income post-Acquisition. 
Performance Materials includes pipeline performance products and services for oilfield energy industries, wood treatment products, and products and equipment used in the precision optics industry. 
We have determined that the effect of applying the new revenue standards during the three and six months ended March 31, 2019 was immaterial to our financial statements compared to revenue guidance in effect before the adoption of the new revenue standards. As a result, for the three and six months ended March 31, 2019, we are not disclosing the quantitative amount by which each financial statement line item is affected by the application of the new revenue standards. 
The Company disaggregates revenue by product area and segment as it best depicts the nature and amount of the Company’s revenue. 
  ●   Non-recurring charge for fair value write-up of inventory sold of $1,045 and $14,859, respectively.    
The following unaudited supplemental pro forma information summarizes the combined results of operations for Cabot Microelectronics and KMG as if the Acquisition had occurred on October 1, 2017. Total cost of sales was $150.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, which represented an increase of 121.6%, or $82.6 million, from the three months ended March 31, 2018, primarily due to the Acquisition. The cost of sales from Cabot Microelectronics’ heritage businesses decreased by $3.2 million, primarily driven by lower sales volume. 
Total research, development and technical expenses were $26.8 million for the six months ended March 31, 2019, which represented an increase of 5.1%, or $1.3 million, from the six months ended March 31, 2018. The increase was primarily due to higher supplies and equipment costs used in research and development of $1.1 million. 
We generated $53.5 million in cash flows from operating activities in the first six months of fiscal 2019, compared to $67.1 million in cash from operating activities in the first six months of fiscal 2018. The decrease in operating cash flows was primarily due to $26.9 million spent on acquisition and integration related costs, net of tax, and an increase in working capital associated with operating a larger business. 
Total cost of sales was $273.0 million for the six months ended March 31, 2019, which represented an increase of 103.9%, or $139.1 million, from the six months ended March 31, 2018. The increase in cost of sales was primarily due to the Acquisition. Cost of sales of Cabot Microelectronics’ heritage businesses was relatively flat compared to the same period last year, as the higher costs associated with higher sales volume was offset by lower per unit costs. 
Total research, development and technical expenses were $12.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, which represented a decrease of 4.4%, or $0.6 million, from the three months ended March 31, 2018. The decrease was primarily due to lower staffing-related costs of $0.9 million, including incentive compensation costs. 
Revenue was $487.2 million for the six months ended March 31, 2019, which represented a 72.2%, or $204.2 million increase from the six months ended March 31, 2018. The increase in revenue was primarily due to the Acquisition. Revenue from Cabot Microelectronics’ heritage businesses increased by $19.1 million, or 6.7%. This increase was primarily driven by a higher value product mix, selected price increases and higher sales volume. Although our product offerings have expanded with the acquisition of KMG, our business remains substantially dependent on products in our Electronic Materials segment, such as CMP slurries, pads and electronic chemicals, which account for the majority of our revenue. We have identified our Performance Materials segment as another area of potential continued growth and the product offerings in our Performance Materials segment are similarly concentrated. As such, our business would suffer if these products became obsolete or if consumption of these products decreased. Our success depends on our ability to keep pace with technological changes and advances in the industries in which we operate, particularly the semiconductor industry, and to adapt, improve and customize our products in response to evolving customer needs and industry trends. Since its inception, the semiconductor industry, which is the largest industry in which we operate, has experienced technological changes and advances in the design, manufacture, performance and application of IC devices. Our customers continually pursue lower cost of ownership and higher quality and performance of materials consumed in their manufacturing processes, including CMP slurries and pads and electronic chemicals, as a means to reduce costs, increase the yield in their manufacturing facilities, and achieve desired performance of the IC devices they produce. We expect these technological changes, and this drive toward lower costs, higher quality and performance and higher yields, will continue in the future. Potential technology developments in the semiconductor industry, as well as our customers' efforts to reduce consumption of CMP consumables, including through use of smaller quantities, could render our products less important to the IC device manufacturing process. 
Our customer base is concentrated among a limited number of large customers in each of our segments. Currently, our principal business is to supply electronic materials primarily to the semiconductor industry. The semiconductor industry has been consolidating as the larger semiconductor manufacturers have generally grown faster than the smaller ones, through business gains, mergers and acquisitions, and strategic alliances. Industry analysts predict that this trend will continue, which means the semiconductor industry will be comprised of fewer and larger participants in the future if their prediction is correct. In addition, our customer base in our pipeline-related businesses is also somewhat concentrated, with large entities predominant, and outside of the United States, these entities frequently are state-owned or sponsored and limited in number per country, as described more above. One or more of these principal customers could stop buying products from us or could substantially reduce the quantity of products purchased from us. Our principal customers also hold considerable purchasing power, which can impact the pricing and terms of sale of our products. Any deferral or significant reduction in the quantity or price of products sold to these principal customers could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 