Electronic Materials includes products and solutions for the semiconductor industry. We manufacture and sell CMP consumables, including CMP slurries and polishing pad products, and high-purity process chemicals used to etch and clean silicon wafers in the production of semiconductors, photovoltaics (solar cells) and flat panel displays. 
We began to manage and report our results under the new organizational structure in conjunction with the KMG acquisition in fiscal 2019 and have reflected this change for all historical periods presented. Since the two segments operate independently and serve different markets and customers, there are no sales between segments. Revenue from external customers and segment adjusted EBITDA shown for Performance Materials for the quarter ended December 31, 2017 includes Cabot Microelectronics’ legacy QED business and an immaterial business that was sold in March 2018. The adjustments to segment EBITDA for the three months ended December 31, 2018 represent addbacks of KMG acquisition and integration related expenses, and a charge for the write-up of inventory acquired from KMG to fair value, for inventory sold in the period. There were no adjustments to segment EBITDA for the three months ended December 31, 2017. Unallocated corporate expenses include expenses associated with executive leadership and public company costs, and the unallocated portions of corporate functions including finance, legal, human resources, information technology, and corporate development not directly attributable to a reportable segment. 
The excess of consideration transferred over the fair value of net assets acquired was recorded as goodwill, and is not deductible for income tax purposes. The goodwill is primarily attributable to anticipated revenue growth from the combined company product portfolio, expected synergies of the combined company, and the assembled workforce of KMG. The preliminary allocation of goodwill to each of the Electronic Materials and Performance Materials segments as a result of this Acquisition was $263,208 and $341,920, respectively. 
Performance Materials includes pipeline performance products and services for oilfield energy industries, wood treatment products, and products and equipment used in the precision optics industry. 
The Company disaggregates revenue by product area and segment as it best depicts the nature and amount of the Company’s revenue. 
The following unaudited supplemental pro forma information summarizes the combined results of operations for Cabot Microelectronics and KMG as if the Acquisition had occurred on October 1, 2017. 
We utilize and rely upon a global workforce. If we fail to attract and retain the necessary managerial, technical and customer support personnel, our business and our ability to maintain existing and obtain new customers, develop new products and provide acceptable levels of customer service could suffer. We compete worldwide with other industry participants for qualified personnel, particularly those with significant experience in the semiconductor industry. The loss of services of key employees, or our inability to obtain or maintain visas or other travel or residency documents on their behalf with respect to our business needs, could harm our business and results of operations. Periodically, we engage in succession planning for our key employees, and our Board of Directors reviews succession planning for our executive officers, including our chief executive officer, on an annual basis. 
The Revolving Credit Facility requires that the Company maintain a maximum first lien secured net leverage ratio, as defined in the Credit Agreement, of 4.00 to 1.00 as of the last day of each fiscal quarter if any revolving loans are outstanding, commencing with the first full fiscal quarter after the Acquisition Date. 
  Subsequent to the quarter end, Treasury released final regulations under Sec. 965. The Company will complete its assessment of new regulatory guidance during the quarter ended March 31, 2019.  
Purchase obligations include take-or-pay arrangements with suppliers, and purchase orders and other obligations entered into in the normal course of business regarding the purchase of goods and services. We have been operating under a fumed silica supply agreement with Cabot Corporation, our former parent company which is not a related party, the current term of which runs through December 2019. As of December 31, 2018, purchase obligations include $17,183 of contractual commitments related to our Cabot Corporation supply agreement for fumed silica. 
In fiscal 2018, our five largest customers accounted for approximately an aggregate 57% of our revenue, with Samsung, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company and SK Hynix Inc. accounting for approximately 18%, 12%, and 10%, respectively, of our revenue.  
 For certain contracts within the Performance Materials segment, commissions are paid to sales agents based upon a percentage of end-customer invoice value. Agents are paid the commissions after funds are received by the Company from its customers. Under ASC 340, sales commissions are required to be capitalized and expensed over the associated contract period. However, as a practical expedient, the Company does not capitalize commissions as the associated contracts are generally one year or less in duration. For shipping and handling activities performed after a customer obtains control of the goods, the Company has elected to account for these costs as activities to fulfill the promise to transfer the goods and included in cost of sales. We generated $13.7 million in cash flows from operating activities in the first three months of fiscal 2019, compared to $30.6 million in cash from operating activities in the first three months of fiscal 2018. The decrease in operating cash flows was primarily due to $24.7 million spent on acquisition and integration costs, net of tax, and an increase in working capital associated with operating a larger business. 
Total research, development and technical expenses were $14.0 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018, which represented an increase of 15.5%, or $1.9 million, from the three months ended December 31, 2017. The increase was primarily due to higher supplies and equipment costs used in research and development of $0.9 million and higher staffing-related costs of $0.8 million. 
Revenue for our first quarter of fiscal 2019 was $221.8 million, which represented an increase of 58.4% from the first quarter of fiscal 2018. Results benefited from the acquisition of KMG, which added $62.0 million to revenue in the approximately six weeks of the quarter post-closing, as well as a 10% increase in CMP slurries and 30% increase in CMP pads compared to the same quarter last year. 
Total cost of sales was $122.4 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018, which represented an increase of 85.6%, or $56.5 million, from the three months ended December 31, 2017. The increase in cost of sales was primarily due to the Acquisition, adding approximately $52.2 million in cost of sales. Excluding the impact of the KMG businesses, the remaining increase was primarily driven by higher sales volume. Although our product offerings have expanded with the acquisition of KMG, our business remains substantially dependent on our electronic materials products, such as CMP slurries, pads and electronic chemicals, which account for the majority of our revenue. We have identified our Performance Materials segment as another area of potential continued growth and the product offerings in our Performance Materials segment are similarly concentrated. As such, our business would suffer if these products became obsolete or if consumption of these products decreased. Our success depends on our ability to keep pace with technological changes and advances in the industries in which we operate, particularly the semiconductor industry, and to adapt, improve and customize our products in response to evolving customer needs and industry trends. Since its inception, the semiconductor industry, which is the largest industry in which we operate, has experienced technological changes and advances in the design, manufacture, performance and application of IC devices. Our customers continually pursue lower cost of ownership and higher quality and performance of materials consumed in their manufacturing processes, including CMP slurries and pads and electronic chemicals, as a means to reduce costs, increase the yield in their manufacturing facilities, and achieve desired performance of the IC devices they produce. We expect these technological changes, and this drive toward lower costs, higher quality and performance and higher yields, will continue in the future. Potential technology developments in the semiconductor industry, as well as our customers' efforts to reduce consumption of CMP consumables, including through use of smaller quantities, could render our products less important to the IC device manufacturing process. 
Our customer base is concentrated among a limited number of large customers in each of our segments. Currently, our principal business is to supply electronic materials primarily to the semiconductor industry. The semiconductor industry has been consolidating as the larger semiconductor manufacturers have generally grown faster than the smaller ones, through business gains, mergers and acquisitions, and strategic alliances. Industry analysts predict that this trend will continue, which means the semiconductor industry will be comprised of fewer and larger participants in the future if their prediction is correct. In addition, our customer base in our pipeline business is also somewhat concentrated, with large entities predominant, and outside of the United States, these entities frequently are state-owned or sponsored and limited in number per country, as described more above. One or more of these principal customers could stop buying products from us or could substantially reduce the quantity of products purchased from us. Our principal customers also hold considerable purchasing power, which can impact the pricing and terms of sale of our products. Any deferral or significant reduction in the quantity or price of products sold to these principal customers could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
Changes in regulatory, legislative and industry requirements, or changes driven by supply-chain pressures, may shift current customers away from products using penta or certain of our other products and toward alternative products that are believed to have fewer environmental effects. The EPA, foreign and state regulators, local governments, private environmental advocacy organizations and a number of large industrial companies have proposed or adopted policies designed to decrease the use of a variety of chemicals, including penta and others included in certain of our products. Our ability to anticipate changes in regulatory, legislative, and industry requirements, or changes driven by supply-chain pressures, affects our ability to remain competitive. Further, we may not be able to comply with changed or new regulatory or industrial standards that may be necessary for us to remain competitive. 