Approximately 0.1 million and 0.2 million shares for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, and 0.1 million shares for both the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, attributable to outstanding stock options were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share.
We began to manage and report our results under the new organizational structure in conjunction with the Acquisition in fiscal 2019 and have reflected this change for all historical periods presented. Since the two segments operate independently and serve different markets and customers, there are no sales between segments. Revenue from external customers and segment adjusted EBITDA shown for Performance Materials for the quarter ended June 30, 2018 includes Cabot Microelectronics’ heritage QED business. The adjustments to segment EBITDA for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019 represent addbacks of KMG acquisition and integration related expenses, and a charge for the write-up of inventory acquired from KMG to fair value, for inventory sold in the period, and costs related to KMG-Bernuth warehouse fire. There were no adjustments to segment EBITDA for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018. Unallocated corporate expenses include expenses associated with executive leadership and public company costs, and the unallocated portions of corporate functions including finance, legal, human resources, information technology, and corporate development not directly attributable to a reportable segment.
Electronic Materials includes products and solutions for the semiconductor industry. We manufacture and sell CMP consumables, including CMP slurries and polishing pad products, and high-purity process chemicals used to etch and clean silicon wafers in the production of semiconductors, photovoltaics (solar cells) and flat panel displays.
The excess of consideration transferred over the fair value of net assets acquired was recorded as goodwill, and is not deductible for income tax purposes. The goodwill is primarily attributable to anticipated revenue growth from the combined company product portfolio, expected synergies of the combined company, and the assembled workforce of KMG. The preliminary allocation of goodwill to each of the Electronic Materials and Performance Materials segments as a result of the Acquisition was $261,733 and $344,888, respectively.
Performance Materials includes pipeline performance products and services for energy industries, wood treatment products, and products and equipment used in the precision optics industry.
KMG’s results of operations have been included in our unaudited Consolidated Statements of Income and Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income from the Acquisition Date. Net sales of the acquired KMG business since the Acquisition Date through June 30, 2019 were $316,690. KMG’s net income since the Acquisition Date was $4,782, which includes $21,889 of acquisition-related costs and a $14,869 charge for fair value write-up of inventory sold. Further, additional amortization and depreciation expense associated with recording KMG’s net assets at fair value decreased KMG’s net income post-Acquisition.
The following unaudited supplemental pro forma information summarizes the combined results of operations for Cabot Microelectronics and KMG as if the Acquisition had occurred on October 1, 2017.
We utilize and rely upon a global workforce. If we fail to attract and retain the necessary managerial, technical and customer support personnel, our business and our ability to maintain existing and obtain new customers, develop new products and provide acceptable levels of customer service could suffer. We compete worldwide with other industry participants for qualified personnel, particularly those with significant experience in the semiconductor industry. The loss of services of key employees, or our inability to obtain or maintain visas or other travel or residency documents on their behalf with respect to our business needs, could harm our business and results of operations. Periodically, we engage in succession planning for our key employees, and our Board of Directors reviews succession planning for our executive officers, including our chief executive officer, on an annual basis.
The Revolving Credit Facility requires that the Company maintain a maximum first lien secured net leverage ratio, as defined in the Credit Agreement, of 4.00 to 1.00 as of the last day of each fiscal quarter if any revolving loans are outstanding, commencing with the first full fiscal quarter after the Acquisition Date.Revenue for our third quarter of fiscal 2019 was $271.9 million, which represented an increase of 80.7% from the same quarter of fiscal 2018, primarily due to the Acquisition.
Total cost of sales was $156.5 million for the three months ended June 30, 2019, which represented an increase of 124.4%, or $86.8 million, from the three months ended June 30, 2018, primarily due to the Acquisition. The cost of sales from Cabot Microelectronics’ heritage businesses decreased by $3.8 million, primarily driven by lower sales volume.
Total research, development and technical expenses were $39.0 million for nine months ended June 30, 2019, which was relatively flat compared to the same period last year. 
Revenue was $271.9 million for the three months ended June 30, 2019, which represented an 80.7%, or $121.4 million, increase from the three months ended June 30, 2018, primarily due to the Acquisition. Revenue from Cabot Microelectronics’ heritage businesses decreased by $10.1 million, or 6.7%, primarily due to lower sales volume, partially offset by a higher value product mix.
Total cost of sales was $429.5 million for the nine months ended June 30, 2019, which represented an increase of 110.9%, or $225.9 million, from the nine months ended June 30, 2018. The increase in cost of sales was primarily due to the Acquisition. Cost of sales of Cabot Microelectronics’ heritage businesses was relatively flat compared to the same period last year, as the lower costs associated with lower sales volume was offset by higher per unit costs.
Total research, development and technical expenses were $12.2 million for the three months ended June 30, 2019, which represented a decrease of 6.6%, or $0.9 million, from the three months ended June 30, 2018. The decrease was primarily due to lower staffing-related costs of $1.1 million, including incentive compensation costs, offset by higher supplies used in research and development of $0.4 million.
Revenue was $759.1 million for the nine months ended June 30, 2019, which represented a 75.1%, or $325.7 million increase from the nine months ended June 30, 2018. The increase in revenue was primarily due to the Acquisition. Revenue from Cabot Microelectronics’ heritage businesses increased slightly by $9.0 million, or 2.1%. This increase was primarily driven by a higher value product mix, selected price increases, partially offset by lower sales volume.Although our product offerings have expanded with the acquisition of KMG, our business remains substantially dependent on products in our Electronic Materials segment, such as CMP slurries, pads and electronic chemicals, which account for the majority of our revenue. We have identified our Performance Materials segment as another area of potential continued growth and the product offerings in our Performance Materials segment are similarly concentrated. As such, our business would suffer if these products became obsolete or if consumption of these products decreased. Our success depends on our ability to keep pace with technological changes and advances in the industries in which we operate, particularly the semiconductor industry, and to adapt, improve and customize our products in response to evolving customer needs and industry trends. Since its inception, the semiconductor industry, which is the largest industry in which we operate, has experienced technological changes and advances in the design, manufacture, performance and application of IC devices. Our customers continually pursue lower cost of ownership and higher quality and performance of materials consumed in their manufacturing processes, including CMP slurries and pads and electronic chemicals, as a means to reduce costs, increase the yield in their manufacturing facilities, and achieve desired performance of the IC devices they produce. We expect these technological changes, and this drive toward lower costs, higher quality and performance and higher yields, will continue in the future. Potential technology developments in the semiconductor industry, as well as our customers' efforts to reduce consumption of CMP consumables, including through use of smaller quantities, could render our products less important to the IC device manufacturing process.
Our customer base is concentrated among a limited number of large customers in each of our segments. Currently, our principal business is to supply electronic materials primarily to the semiconductor industry. The semiconductor industry has been consolidating as the larger semiconductor manufacturers have generally grown faster than the smaller ones, through business gains, mergers and acquisitions, and strategic alliances. Industry analysts predict that this trend will continue, which means the semiconductor industry will be comprised of fewer and larger participants in the future if their prediction is correct. In addition, our customer base in our pipeline-related businesses is also somewhat concentrated, with large entities predominant, and outside of the United States, these entities frequently are state-owned or sponsored and limited in number per country, as described more above. One or more of these principal customers could stop buying products from us or could substantially reduce the quantity of products purchased from us. Our principal customers also hold considerable purchasing power, which can impact the pricing and terms of sale of our products. Any deferral or significant reduction in the quantity or price of products sold to these principal customers could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.