fls.txt



item1.txt
Edgewell Personal Care Company, and its subsidiaries (collectively, “Edgewell” or the “Company”), is one of the world’s largest manufacturers and marketers of personal care products in the wet shave, sun and skin care, feminine care, and infant care categories.
Certain amounts within Cash Flows from Operating Activities for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 have been reclassified to conform with the current period presentation.
Net cash from operating activities for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 was not impacted by this change.
The Company adopted the ASU for revenue recognition beginning October 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method.
The adoption resulted in the recognition of a $5.3 inventory return asset included in Other current assets on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of October 1, 2018 with an offsetting increase to the returns reserve in Other current liabilities.
The amendments provide guidance on specific cash flow issues, including debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs, the sale of accounts receivable, contingent consideration payments on business combinations, proceeds from the settlement of insurance claims, and distributions received from equity method investees, among others.
The Company adopted the ASU beginning October 1, 2018.
The Company noted that the adoption of the ASU resulted in the reclassification of approximately $9.0 and $7.2 in operating cash inflows for the nine months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, associated with the $150 uncommitted master accounts receivable purchase agreement entered into on September 15, 2017 with The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., New York Branch, as the purchaser (the “Accounts Receivable Facility”) to investing cash inflows in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-16 intended to improve the accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
The Company adopted the standard beginning October 1, 2018.
The impact of the adoption of the ASU resulted in the recognition of a deferred tax asset and a credit to retained earnings of $3.9.
The Company adopted the ASU beginning October 1, 2018.
The Company adopted the ASU beginning October 1, 2018 and noted that the impact on its financial statements was not material.
In February 2016, the FASB issued an ASU which amends existing lease accounting guidance to require recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet for leases previously classified as operating leases.
The update will be effective for the Company beginning October 1, 2019, with early adoption permitted.
The Company has begun assessing the impact of the standard, identified the components of the lease portfolio, and begun implementing business process changes and controls including new lease accounting software required to correctly apply the guidance across the organization.


item2.txt
•Adjusted effective tax rate is defined as the effective tax rate excluding items such as impairment charges, restructuring charges, Harry’s acquisition and integration planning costs, advisory expenses in connection with the evaluation of the Feminine and Infant Care businesses, Sun Care reformulation charges, Jack Black acquisition and integration costs, investor settlement expense, the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, the related tax effects of these items, and the impact of the Tax Act from the income tax provision and earnings before income taxes.
On March 1, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Jack Black, a leading U.S. based luxury men’s skincare products company, for approximately $90.2, net of cash acquired.
During the third quarter of fiscal 2019, we determined a triggering event had occurred as a result of a decline in our market capitalization after a decline in the Company’s share price during the quarter.
Total assets sold were $3.7, resulting in a pre-tax gain on sale of $15.3 in fiscal 2018.
Refer to Note 3 of our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion related to the sale of the Playtex gloves business.
Net earnings and earnings per share (“EPS”) for the time periods presented were impacted by impairment charges, restructuring activities, Harry’s acquisition costs, Feminine and Infant Care evaluation costs, Sun Care reformulation costs, Jack Black acquisition and integration costs, investor settlement expenses, the gain on the sale of the Playtex gloves business, the related tax impact from those costs, and the impact of the Tax Act as described in the table below.
The following table presents changes in net sales for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019, as compared to the corresponding periods in fiscal 2018, and provides a reconciliation of organic net sales to reported amounts.
For the third quarter of fiscal 2019, net sales were $609.2, a 1.8% decrease when compared with the prior year quarter.
Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales decreased 0.3% driven by declines in the Wet Shave and Feminine Care businesses, partly offset by increased organic sales in the Sun and Skin Care business.
Organic net sales declined in North America by 2.7% while International organic net sales grew 4.2%.
Lower sales in North America were driven by declines in Wet Shave, due to distribution losses, lower pricing and an unfavorable comparison to the prior year launch of Intuition f.a.b.®, partly offset by growth in Sun and Skin Care.
Sun and Skin Care growth reflected favorable timing of promotions and returns and the benefit from the shift in timing of the Easter holiday, offset by lower volumes, which were impacted by lower consumption rates, due to unfavorable weather across most markets.
In International markets, organic sales increased in Wet Shave, benefiting from a favorable comparison to prior year sales in Japan, and in Sun and Skin Care, driven by strong Bulldog sales.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Our management, with the participation of our CEO and CFO, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act) as of June 30, 2019.


