fls.txt
Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed within "Forward-Looking Statements" below, and in Item 1A.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its controlled subsidiaries and have been prepared in accordance with United States ("U.S.") generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), under the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC").
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation and, in the opinion of management, all normal recurring adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included in the interim results reported.
The fiscal year-end balance sheet data was derived from audited consolidated financial statements, but do not include all of the annual disclosures required by GAAP; accordingly, these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company's audited annual consolidated financial statements included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on November 20, 2017.
In August 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued a new Accounting Standards Update ("ASU"), which requires management to evaluate whether there are conditions or events, considered in the aggregate, that raise substantial doubt about the entity's ability to continue as a going concern within one year after the date that the financial statements are issued.
The Company adopted this guidance as of October 1, 2017 and noted the adoption did not have an impact on the financial statements or the related disclosures.
The standard requires cash flows from excess tax benefits and deficiencies, previously classified as a financing activity, to be classified as an operating activity in the consolidated statement of cash flows.
The Company adopted these provisions of the guidance prospectively in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
The excess tax deficiencies were recorded as an operating activity in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows during the first quarter of 2018.
As such, $7.1 of cash outflows for tax withholding payments were reclassified from an operating activity to a financing activity in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the first quarter of fiscal 2017.
During fiscal 2017, the Company established a cross-functional implementation team, including representatives from all of its businesses globally, to analyze the current processes in place for the recognition of revenue and identify potential differences that would result from application of the new guidance.
Due to an increase in Wet Shave footprint costs and a delay in the transition of manufacturing in the Company's Feminine Care segment from Montreal to Dover, Delaware, some anticipated savings are not expected to be realized until fiscal 2019.
Expenses incurred under the Restructuring plan are reflected below, including the estimated impact of allocating such charges to segment results.


item2.txt
The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on November 20, 2017.
These Non-GAAP measures are referred to as "adjusted" or "organic" and exclude items such as the disposition of Playtex gloves business, the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Tax Act"), the acquisition of Bulldog Skincare Holdings Limited ("Bulldog"), restructuring charges and amortization of intangibles.
•We analyze our net sales and segment profit on an organic basis to better measure the comparability of results between periods.
Organic net sales and organic segment profit exclude the impact of changes in foreign currency, acquisitions and dispositions (including the disposition of the gloves business and acquisition of Bulldog).
•Adjusted net earnings and adjusted earnings per share are defined as net earnings and diluted earnings per share excluding items such as the gain on the disposition of the gloves business, restructuring charges, the related tax effects of these items and the impact of the Tax Act. All comparisons are with the same period in the prior year, unless otherwise noted.
Retail sales for purposes of market size, market position and market share information are based on retail sales in United States ("U.S.") dollars.
•Our business is subject to increasing global regulation, including product related regulations and environmental regulations, that may expose us to significant liabilities.
The personal care product categories are highly competitive, both in the U.S. and on a global basis, as large manufacturers with global operations compete for consumer acceptance and, increasingly, limited retail shelf space.
Our priority is to deliver our strategic objectives, focusing on maximizing sales and profit growth through innovation, product line extensions and share gains, as well as improving working capital management.
On October 26, 2017, the Company finalized its sale of the Playtex® gloves business to a household products company (the “Acquirer”) for $19.0.
The strategic sale of the Playtex gloves business will allow the Company to better focus and utilize its resources on its other product lines.
On October 31, 2016, we completed the acquisition of Bulldog, a men's grooming and skincare products company based in the United Kingdom (the "U.K.") for $34.0, net of cash acquired.
Following is a summary of key results for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2017.


item3.txt
Our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to our variable-rate debt instruments, which currently bear interest based on LIBOR plus margin.


item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Many of these legal matters are in preliminary stages and involve complex issues of law and fact, and may proceed for protracted periods of time.


