fls.txt
Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed within "Forward-Looking Statements" below, and in Item 1A.


item1.txt
Refer to Note 2 for additional details regarding the acquisition of Jack Black, L.L.C. The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its controlled subsidiaries and have been prepared in accordance with United States ("U.S.") generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), under the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC").
The fiscal year-end balance sheet data was derived from audited consolidated financial statements, but do not include all of the annual disclosures required by GAAP; accordingly, these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company's audited annual consolidated financial statements included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on November 20, 2017.
On March 1, 2018, the Company completed the acquisition of Jack Black, a luxury men's skincare products company based in the United States.
The results of Jack Black for the post-acquisition period are included within the Company's results for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018.
The Company adopted these provisions of the guidance prospectively in the first six months of fiscal 2018.
The tax deficiencies were recorded as an operating activity in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows during the first six months of fiscal 2018.
As such, $15.5 of cash outflows for tax withholding payments were reclassified from an operating activity to a financing activity in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the first six months of fiscal 2017.
The Company adopted this standard in the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
During fiscal 2017, the Company established a cross-functional implementation team, including representatives from all of its businesses globally, to analyze the current processes in place for the recognition of revenue and identify potential differences that would result from application of the new guidance.
Additionally, the Company has begun reviewing the enhanced disclosure requirements under the new standard.
The amendments provide guidance on specific cash flow issues, including debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs, the sale of accounts receivable, contingent consideration payments on business combinations, proceeds from the settlement of insurance claims and distributions received from equity method investees, among others.
The Company is in the process of evaluating the impact the guidance will have on its financial statements.
In February 2018, the FASB issued an ASU which addresses the recently enacted Tax Act. The new guidance will be effective for the Company beginning October 1, 2018, with early adoption permitted.


item2.txt
The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on November 20, 2017.
These Non-GAAP measures are referred to as "adjusted" or "organic" and exclude items such as the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Tax Act"), costs associated with the acquisition and integration of Jack Black, L.L.C.
•We analyze our net sales and segment profit on an organic basis to better measure the comparability of results between periods.
For the three and six months ended March 31, 2018, the impact of acquisitions includes net sales and segment profit activity for Jack Black, which was acquired in March 2018.
For the six months ended March 31, 2018, the impact of acquisitions also includes October 2017 net sales and segment profit for Bulldog Skincare Holdings Limited (“Bulldog”), which was acquired in October 2016.
•Adjusted net earnings and adjusted earnings per share are defined as net earnings and diluted earnings per share excluding items such as Jack Black integration costs, restructuring charges, the gain on the disposition of the gloves business, the related tax effects of these items and the impact of the Tax Act.
•Our business is subject to increasing global regulation, including product related regulations and environmental regulations, that may expose us to significant liabilities.
Refer to Note 2 of our Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details regarding the acquisition of Jack Black and Note 3 of our Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details on the sale of the Playtex household gloves business.
Our priority is to deliver our strategic objectives, focusing on maximizing sales and profit growth through innovation, product line extensions and share gains, and we continue to target improved working capital management as a key business objective.
On March 1, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Jack Black, a leading U.S. based luxury men's skincare products company based in the United States, for approximately $90.3, net of cash acquired.
The results of Jack Black for the post-acquisition period are included within the Company's results for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018.
Refer to Note 2 of our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion related to the acquisition of Jack Black.
On October 31, 2016, we completed the acquisition of Bulldog, a men's grooming and skincare products company based in the United Kingdom for $34.0, net of cash acquired.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
The amount of liability, if any, from these proceedings cannot be determined with certainty.
We review our legal proceedings and claims, regulatory reviews and inspections and other legal proceedings on an ongoing basis and follow appropriate accounting guidance when making accrual and disclosure decisions.


