fls.txt
The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on November 19, 2018.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of the Company and its controlled subsidiaries and have been prepared in accordance with United States (“U.S.”) generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), under the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation and, in the opinion of management, all normal recurring adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included in the interim results reported.
The fiscal year-end balance sheet data was derived from audited consolidated financial statements, but do not include all of the annual disclosures required by GAAP; accordingly, these unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Company’s Audited Annual Consolidated Financial Statements included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on November 19, 2018.
Certain amounts within Cash Flows from Operating Activities for the six months ended March 31, 2018 have been reclassified to conform with the current period presentation.
Net cash (used by) from operating activities for the six months ended March 31, 2018 was not impacted by this change.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued an Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) which provides a single comprehensive revenue recognition model for all contracts with customers to improve comparability within industries, across industries, and across capital markets.
The Company adopted the ASU for revenue recognition beginning October 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method.
The adoption resulted in the recognition of a $5.3 inventory return asset included in Other current assets on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of October 1, 2018 with an offsetting increase to the returns reserve in Other current liabilities.
The adoption resulted in the recognition of a $1.3 liability for advanced payments from customers in Other current liabilities with a corresponding increase to Trade receivables to reclassify advanced payments from customers from contra-Trade receivables as of October 1, 2018.
The amendments provide guidance on specific cash flow issues, including debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs, the sale of accounts receivable, contingent consideration payments on business combinations, proceeds from the settlement of insurance claims, and distributions received from equity method investees, among others.
The impact of the adoption of the ASU resulted in the recognition of a deferred tax asset and a credit to retained earnings of $3.9.
The amendments provide guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting.
The Company adopted the ASU beginning October 1, 2018 and noted that the impact on its financial statements was not material.
In February 2016, the FASB issued an ASU which amends existing lease accounting guidance to require recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet for leases previously classified as operating leases.
The update will be effective for the Company beginning October 1, 2019, with early adoption permitted.


item2.txt
These Non-GAAP measures are referred to as “adjusted” or “organic” and exclude items such as restructuring charges, advisory expenses in connection with the evaluation of the Feminine and Infant Care businesses, the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, investor settlement expense, the Jack Black, L.L.C.
•We analyze our net sales and segment profit on an organic basis to better measure the comparability of results between periods.
Organic net sales and organic segment profit exclude the impact of changes in foreign currency, acquisitions, and dispositions (including the acquisition of Jack Black through February 2019 and the disposition of the Playtex gloves business through October 2018).
•Adjusted net earnings and adjusted earnings per share are defined as net earnings and diluted earnings per share excluding items such as restructuring charges, Feminine and Infant Care evaluation costs, the gain on the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, investor settlement expense, Jack Black acquisition and integration costs, Sun Care reformulation charges, the related tax effects of these items, and the impact of the Tax Act.
•Adjusted effective tax rate is defined as the effective tax rate excluding items such as restructuring charges, advisory expenses in connection with the evaluation of the Feminine and Infant Care businesses, the gain on the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, investor settlement expense, Jack Black acquisition and integration costs, Sun Care reformulation charges, the related tax effects of these items, and the impact of the Tax Act from the income tax provision and earnings before income taxes.
On March 1, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Jack Black, a leading U.S. based luxury men’s skincare products company, for approximately $90.2, net of cash acquired.
Total assets sold were $3.1, resulting in a pre-tax gain on sale of $15.9 in the first six months of fiscal 2018.
The gain on sale of Playtex gloves recognized for fiscal year 2018 was $15.3.
Refer to Note 3 of our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion related to the sale of the Playtex gloves business.
The following is a summary of key results for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019 compared to the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018.
Net earnings and earnings per share (“EPS”) for the time periods presented were impacted by restructuring activities, Feminine and Infant Care evaluation costs, Jack Black acquisition and integration costs, investor settlement expenses, Sun Care reformulation costs, the gain on the sale of the Playtex gloves business, the related tax impact from those costs, and the impact of the Tax Act as described in the table below.
The following table presents changes in net sales for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019, as compared to the corresponding periods in fiscal 2018, and provides a reconciliation of organic net sales to reported amounts.


item3.txt
As of March 31, 2019, there were no open derivative or hedging instruments for future purchases of raw materials or commodities.


item4.txt



part2.txt



