The Company provides marketing and sales services, knowledge and supply chain management, product-solution delivery and control systems utilizing extensive internet and information technology.
In management’s opinion, the accompanying interim Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company include all adjustments, consisting only of normal, recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s financial position for the interim periods presented.
The Company has identified the full population of leases and does not expect the adoption of the standard to have a material impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The standard will be adopted on the first day of the Company’s 2020 fiscal year.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments which amends the impairment model by requiring entities to use a forward-looking approach based on expected losses rather than incurred losses to estimate credit losses on certain types of financial instruments, including trade receivables.
The company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and will adopt the standard on the first day of the Company’s 2021 fiscal year.
The Company does not expect that the adoption of this new standard, on the first day of the Company’s 2020 fiscal year, will have a material impact on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
The amount of expected returns are now recognized as a refund liability within the Accrued Expenses line item of the balance sheet.Our second quarter fiscal 2019 revenue increased by 9.3% compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
We experienced second quarter fiscal 2019 revenue growth within our commercial segments of 11.0% and an increase in revenue in the retail segment of 5.9%, as compared to the second fiscal quarter of 2018.
For the retail segment, year over year, revenue increased due, in part, to successful execution of the iPhone XS and the XS Max launches as well as growth in Ventev mobile device accessory sales.
On the product side, revenue increased in our base station infrastructure, installation, test and maintenance and mobile device accessories categories by 27.0%, 15.8%, and 5.9% respectively.
Revenue decreased in our network systems category by 22.7%, for the second quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to the same quarter last year.
Our second quarter fiscal year 2019 gross profit increased by 4.9%, compared to the second quarter of fiscal year 2018.
The increase in gross profit was primarily the result of the increase in revenue discussed above.
Gross margin for the second quarter fiscal year 2019 and fiscal year 2018 was 19.8% and 20.6% respectively.
Selling, General and Administrative expenses for the second quarter fiscal year 2019 were up 11% compared to the second quarter fiscal year 2018.Item 1.