item1.txt
The Company provides marketing and sales services, knowledge and supply chain management, product-solution delivery and control systems utilizing extensive internet and information technology.
Approximately 98% of the Company’s sales are made to customers in the United States.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and will adopt the standard on the first day of the Company’s 2020 fiscal year.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted, and will be applied retrospectively.
The Company does not expect that the adoption of this new standard, on the first day of the Company’s 2020 fiscal year, will have a material impact on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Company has changed the presentation of its returns reserve.
The amount of expected returns are now recognized as a refund liability within the Accrued Expenses line item of the balance sheet.
The value of the expected goods returned by customers is now recognized as a return asset within the inventory line item of the balance sheet.
The return asset value is initially measured at the former carrying amount in inventory, less any expected costs to recover the goods.
The Company expects products returned by customers to be in new and salable condition, as required by our standard terms and conditions, and therefore impairment of the return asset is unlikely.
The Company’s selling, general and administrative expenses for the fiscal quarter ended July 1, 2018 included $320,500 of non-cash stock-based compensation expense.
The Company’s selling, general and administrative expenses for the fiscal quarter ended June 25, 2017 included $247,600 of non-cash stock-based compensation expense.
Stock-based compensation expense is primarily related to our Performance Stock Units (PSUs), Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) and Stock Options, granted or outstanding under the Company’s Third Amended and Restated Stock and Incentive Plan (the “1994 Plan”).
During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, on May 10, 2018, the Compensation Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors (the “Compensation Committee”) approved the grant of PSUs to selected key employees, providing them with the opportunity to earn up to 71,000 shares of the Company’s common stock in the aggregate, depending upon whether and to the extent which certain earnings per share targets and other Company and individual performance metrics are met.


item2.txt
Our first quarter fiscal 2019 revenue increased by 7.8% compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
We experienced first quarter fiscal 2019 revenue growth within our commercial segments of 16.2% and a decrease in revenue in the retail segment of 7.9%, as compared to the first fiscal quarter of 2018.
The growth in our commercial segment was driven by increases in our public carrier, government and, private system operators markets.
The prior launch occurred in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, while the most recent launch instead occurred in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2018, contributing to a decline in year over year first quarter revenue.
Revenue decreased in our network systems and our mobile device accessories categories by 4.4% and 7.4%, respectively, for the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to the same quarter last year.
Our first quarter fiscal year 2019 gross profit increased by 5.3%, compared to the first quarter of fiscal year 2018.
The increase in gross profit was primarily the result of the increase in revenue discussed above, and in 
part the result of slightly compressed gross profit margins caused by changes in customer and product mix, including a lower percentage of proprietary Ventev® sales as compared to the prior year period and a larger percentage of overall sales from the public carrier market.
Total selling, general and administrative expenses increased by 3.9% compared to the prior-year quarter.


item3.txt
Item 3.


item4.txt
Item 4.
Item 5.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Item 4.
Item 6.


