Overview 
The Company is a leading worldwide provider of navigation, communications and information devices, most of which are enabled by Global Positioning System, or GPS, technology. We operate in five reportable segments, which serve the outdoor, fitness, marine, auto and aviation markets. The Company’s segments offer consumer products through its network of subsidiary distributors and independent dealers and distributors and some also maintain relationships with original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). However, the nature of products and types of customers for the five segments may vary significantly. As such, the segments are managed separately. 
The segment table located in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements sets forth the Company’s results of operations (in thousands) including net sales, gross profit, and operating income for each of the Company’s five segments during the periods shown. For each line item in the table, the total of the outdoor, fitness, marine, auto, and aviation segments’ amounts equals the amount in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income included in Item 1. 
As indicated in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the methodology used to allocate certain selling, general, and administrative expenses was refined in the first quarter of 2019. The amounts presented below for the 13-weeks and 39-weeks ended September 29, 2018 are presented here as they were originally reported. 
Comparison of 13-Weeks ended September 28, 2019 and September 29, 2018  
Net Sales 
Net sales increased 15% for the 13-week period ended September 28, 2019 when compared to the year-ago quarter. The outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segments collectively increased by 24%, contributing 85% of total revenue. Outdoor was the largest portion of our revenue mix at 28% in the third quarter of 2019 compared to 26% in the third quarter of 2018. 
Total unit sales in the third quarter of 2019 increased to 3,659 when compared to total unit sales of 3,527 in the third quarter of 2018. 
Outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segment revenue increased 23%, 28%, 9%, and 28%, respectively, when compared to the year-ago quarter. The outdoor segment revenue increase was driven by sales growth in multiple product categories, led primarily by adventure watches. The fitness segment revenue increase was primarily driven by strong sales in wearables and sales from Tacx, a newly acquired group of subsidiaries that designs and manufactures indoor bike trainers. The current quarter marine segment revenue increase was driven by sales growth in multiple product categories, led primarily by chartplotters. The aviation segment revenue increase was driven by sales growth in both OEM and aftermarket categories. Auto segment revenue decreased 17% from the year-ago quarter, primarily due to lower OEM sales in the current quarter and the ongoing PND market contraction. 
Advertising Expense 
Advertising expense as a percent of revenue was relatively flat when compared to the year-ago quarter and increased 5% in absolute dollars. The total absolute dollar increase was primarily attributable to increased cooperative advertising in the outdoor, fitness, and marine segments, partially offset by decreased cooperative advertising in the auto and aviation segments. 
Selling, General and Administrative Expense 
Selling, general and administrative expense increased 9% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter. The absolute dollar increase in the third quarter of 2019 was primarily attributable to personnel costs and expenses from recent acquisitions. The fitness segment decrease as a percent of revenue was primarily due to greater leverage of operating costs. 
As noted above and in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company refined its methodology to allocate certain selling, general and administrative expenses in the beginning of the 2019 fiscal year. The prior year amounts are presented here as originally reported. For comparative purposes, we estimate selling, general and administrative expenses for the third quarter of 2018 would have been approximately $4 million more for the aviation segment, approximately $2 million less for the marine segment, approximately $2 million less for the outdoor segment, and not significantly different for the fitness and auto segments. Selling, general and administrative expense as a percent of revenue also decreased in the outdoor and marine segments due to greater leverage of operating costs. 
Research and Development Expense 
Operating Income 
Operating income increased 33% in absolute dollars and 380 basis points as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago quarter. In the current quarter, the operating income growth in absolute dollars and as a percent of revenue was primarily attributable to revenue growth, improved gross margin, and greater leverage of operating expenses, as discussed above. 
Foreign currency gains and losses for the Company are typically driven by movements in the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling in relation to the U.S. Dollar. The Taiwan Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin Corporation, the U.S. Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin (Europe) Ltd., and the Euro is the functional currency of most of our other European subsidiaries, although some transactions and balances are denominated in British Pounds. The majority of the Company’s consolidated foreign currency gain or loss is typically driven by the significant cash and marketable securities, receivables and payables held in a currency other than the functional currency at a given legal entity. Due to the relative size of the entities using a functional currency other than the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling, currency fluctuations related to these entities are not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial statements. 
The $16.3 million currency loss recognized in the third quarter of 2019 was primarily due to the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Euro and British Pound Sterling, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Taiwan Dollar, within the 13-weeks ended September 28, 2019. During this period, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 3.8% against the Euro and 3.2% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in losses of $9.8 million and $1.5 million, respectively, while the U.S. Dollar strengthened 0.3% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a gain of $1.2 million. The remaining net currency loss of $6.2 million was related to the timing of transactions and impacts of other currencies, each of which was individually immaterial. 
The $6.9 million currency loss recognized in the third quarter of 2018 was primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against the Euro and British Pound Sterling within the 13-weeks ended September 29, 2018. During this period, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 0.7% against the Euro and 1.3% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in losses of $2.7 million and $0.6 million, respectively, while the U.S. Dollar remained relatively flat against the Taiwan Dollar. The remaining net currency loss of $3.6 million was related to the timing of transactions and impacts of other currencies, each of which was individually immaterial. 
The Company recorded income tax expense of $29.9 million in the 13-week period ended September 28, 2019, compared to income tax expense of $17.1 million in the 13-week period ended September 29, 2018. The effective tax rate was 11.6% in the third quarter of 2019, compared to 8.5% in the third quarter of 2018. The 310 basis points increase to the third quarter of 2019 effective tax rate compared to the prior year quarter is primarily due to a decrease in uncertain tax position reserves released due to expiring statutes of limitations in the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018. 
Net Income  
Comparison of 39-Weeks Ended September 28, 2019 and 39-Weeks Ended September 29, 2018 
Net Sales 
Net sales increased 10% for the 39-week period ended September 28, 2019 when compared to the year-ago period. The outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segments collectively increased by 16%, contributing 84% of total revenue. Fitness was the largest portion of our revenue mix at 25% in the first three quarters of 2019 compared to 24% in the first three quarters of 2018. 
Outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segment revenues increased 12%, 16%, 13%, and 22%, respectively, when compared to the year-ago period. The outdoor segment revenue increase was primarily driven by strong sales in adventure watches, golf and inReach product lines. Fitness segment revenue increases were primarily driven by strong sales in wearables and sales from newly acquired Tacx. Marine segment revenue increases were driven by sales growth in multiple product categories, led primarily by chartplotters and sonar products. The aviation segment revenue increase was driven by sales growth in both OEM and aftermarket categories. Auto segment revenue decreased 13% from the year-ago period, primarily due to the ongoing PND market contraction. 
Advertising Expense 
Advertising expense increased 2% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago period. Increased cooperative advertising in the outdoor, fitness, and marine segments and increased media advertising in the outdoor segment was partially offset by decreased cooperative advertising in the auto and aviation segments. 
Selling, General and Administrative Expense 
Selling, general and administrative expense increased 8% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago period. The absolute dollar increase was primarily attributable to personnel costs, legal related costs, and expenses from recent acquisitions. The fitness segment increase as a percent of revenue was primarily due to expenses from newly acquired Tacx. 
As noted above and in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company refined its methodology to allocate certain selling, general and administrative expenses in the beginning of the 2019 fiscal year. The prior year amounts are presented here as originally reported. For comparative purposes, we estimate selling, general and administrative expenses for the first three quarters of 2018 would have been approximately $13 million more for the aviation segment, approximately $10 million less for the marine segment, approximately $3 million less for the outdoor segment, and not significantly different for the fitness and auto segments. Selling, general and administrative expense as a percent of revenue also decreased in marine due to greater leverage of operating costs. 
Research and Development Expense 
Operating Income 
Operating income increased 20% in absolute dollars and increased 220 basis points as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago period. The growth in operating income on an absolute dollar basis and as a percent of revenue was the result of revenue growth, improved gross margin, and greater leverage of operating expenses, as discussed above. 
The $12.6 million currency loss recognized in the first three quarters of 2019 was primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against most other currencies, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Taiwan Dollar within the 39-weeks ended September 28, 2019. During this period, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 1.5% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a gain of $8.6 million. This was more than offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening 4.4% against the Euro and 3.3% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in losses of $13.9 million and $0.9 million, respectively, and additional net currency losses of $6.4 million related to the timing of transactions and impacts of other currencies, each of which was individually immaterial. 
The $3.4 million currency loss recognized in the first three quarters of 2018 was primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against most other currencies, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Taiwan Dollar within the 39-weeks ended September 29, 2018. During this period, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 2.7% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a gain of $13.6 million. This was more than offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening 3.2% against the Euro and 3.6% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in losses of $7.7 million and $0.6 million, respectively, and additional net currency losses of $8.7 million related to the timing of transactions and impacts of other currencies, each of which was individually immaterial. 
The Company recorded income tax expense of $108.1 million in the first three quarters of 2019, compared to income tax expense of $87.4 million in the first three quarters of 2018. The effective tax rate was 15.4% in the first three quarters of 2019, compared to 14.8% in the first three quarters of 2018. 
Net Income 
As of September 28, 2019, we had approximately $2.5 billion of cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities. We primarily use cash flow from operations, and expect that future cash requirements may be used, to fund our capital expenditures, support our working capital requirements, pay dividends, and fund strategic acquisitions. We believe that our existing cash balances and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our long-term projected capital expenditures, working capital and other cash requirements. 
It is management’s goal to invest the on-hand cash in accordance with the investment policy, which has been approved by the Company’s Board of Directors. The investment policy’s primary purpose is to preserve capital, maintain an acceptable degree of liquidity, and maximize yield within the constraint of low credit risk. Garmin’s average interest rate returns on cash and investments during the first three quarters of 2019 and 2018 were approximately 2.0% and 1.8%, respectively. The fair value of our securities varies from period to period due to changes in interest rates, in the performance of the underlying collateral and in the credit performance of the underlying issuer, among other factors. See Note 8 for additional information regarding marketable securities. 
Operating Activities 
The $237.6 million decrease in cash provided by operating activities during the first three quarters of 2019 compared to the first three quarters of 2018 was primarily due to the increase in cash used in working capital of $310.6 million (which included a decrease of $98.0 million in net receipts of accounts receivable, a net increase of $126.7 million in cash paid for inventory associated primarily with the Company’s effort to increase days of supply to support our increasingly diversified product lines, and a net increase of $85.9 million in cash used in other activities primarily driven by payments associated with an amendment to a license agreement) and income taxes payable of $34.5 million. These decreases were partially offset by the year over year increase in net income and other non-cash adjustments of $107.5 million. 
Investing Activities  
The $129.0 million increase in cash used in investing activities during the first three quarters of 2019 compared to the first three quarters of 2018 was primarily due to increased cash payments for acquisitions of $246.1 million, partially offset by decreased net purchases of marketable securities of $85.6 million and cash payments for net purchases of property and equipment of $30.4 million. 
The $20.4 million increase in cash used in financing activities during the first three quarters of 2019 compared to the first three quarters of 2018 was primarily due to an increase in dividend payments of $12.8 million and $7.6 million increase in treasury stock net purchases related to equity awards. 
We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. 
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 
General 
Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds 
