The Company is a leading worldwide provider of navigation, communications and information devices, most of which are enabled by Global Positioning System, or GPS, technology. We operate in five reportable segments, the outdoor, fitness, marine, auto and aviation markets. The Company’s segments offer products through its network of independent dealers and distributors. However, the nature of products and types of customers for the five segments may vary significantly. As such, the segments are managed separately. 
The Company adopted the new accounting standard for revenue recognition, as discussed in Note 1 – Accounting Policies of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, effective beginning with the Company’s first quarter of 2018. Adoption of the new revenue recognition standard was applied using the full retrospective method, and information for prior periods within Results of Operations have been restated accordingly. 
Allocation of certain research and development expenses, and selling, general, and administrative expenses are made to each segment on a percent of revenue basis. The segment table located in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements sets forth the Company’s results of operations (in thousands) including net sales, gross profit, and operating income for each of the Company’s five segments during the periods shown. For each line item in the table, the total of the outdoor, fitness, marine, auto, and aviation segments’ amounts equals the amount in the condensed consolidated statements of income included in Item 1. 
Total unit sales in the third quarter of 2018 increased to 3,527 when compared to total unit sales of 3,492 in the third quarter of 2017. 
Auto segment revenue decreased 16% from the year-ago quarter, primarily due to the ongoing PND market contraction. Outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segment revenue increased 13%, 14%, 28%, and 17%, respectively, when compared to the year-ago quarter. The current quarter marine segment increase was primarily driven by sales from recent acquisitions, in addition to sales growth across most product lines. The outdoor and fitness segment revenue increases were primarily driven by strong sales in wearables. The aviation segment revenue increase was driven by increased sales across most product lines within the segment. 
Cost of goods sold increased 5% in absolute dollars compared to the prior year quarter. The increase in revenue outpaced the increase in cost of goods sold, which resulted in a 110 basis point decrease in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter. 
In the auto segment, cost of goods sold continued to decline with revenue declines and the slight increase of cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue was primarily due to product mix and promotional activity during the third quarter of 2018. In the marine segment, the decrease in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue primarily resulted from the favorable impact of higher margin Navionics sales on product mix. The outdoor segment decrease in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue was primarily due to product mix. The fitness segment increase in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue was primarily driven by product mix. The aviation segment decrease in cost of goods as a percent of revenue was primarily driven by a reduction in warranty costs compared to the year-ago quarter. 
Selling, general and administrative expense increased 13% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter. The absolute dollar increase in the third quarter of 2018 was primarily attributable to personnel costs and expenses from recent acquisitions. The increase in absolute dollars and as a percent of revenue in the marine segment was primarily attributable to expenses associated with recent acquisitions and the reduced legal related costs in the year-ago quarter. The decrease in absolute dollars and as a percent of revenue in the auto segment was primarily attributable to a current quarter reduction in legal related costs compared to the year-ago quarter. 
Research and development expense increased $9.3 million in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter. This increase in absolute dollars was primarily due to higher engineering personnel costs related to wearable and aviation product offerings and expenses resulting from recent acquisitions within the marine segment. Our research and development spending is focused on product development, improving existing software capabilities, and exploring new categories. 
Operating income increased 13% in absolute dollars and increased 110 basis points as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago quarter. The growth in operating income in absolute dollars and as a percent of revenue was primarily attributable to revenue growth and increased gross margins, as discussed above. 
Foreign currency gains and losses for the Company are typically driven by movements in the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling in relation to the U.S. Dollar. The Taiwan Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin Corporation, the U.S. Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin (Europe) Ltd., and the Euro is the functional currency of most of our other European subsidiaries, although some transactions and balances are denominated in British Pounds. The majority of the Company’s consolidated foreign currency gain or loss is typically driven by the significant cash and marketable securities, receivables and payables held in a currency other than the functional currency at a given legal entity. Due to the relative size of the entities using a functional currency other than the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling, currency fluctuations related to these entities are not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial statements. 
The $6.9 million currency loss recognized in the third quarter of 2018 was primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against the Euro and British Pound Sterling within the 13-weeks ended September 29, 2018. During this period, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 0.7% against the Euro and 1.3% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in losses of $2.7 million and $0.6 million, respectively, while the U.S. Dollar remained relatively flat against the Taiwan Dollar. The remaining net currency loss of $3.6 million was related to other currencies and timing of transactions. 
The $8.6 million currency gain recognized in the third quarter of 2017 was primarily due to the weakening of the U.S. Dollar against the Euro and the British Pound Sterling, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar weakening against the Taiwan Dollar within the 13-weeks ended September 30, 2017. During this period, the U.S. Dollar weakened 3.4% against the Euro and 2.8% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in gains of $8.0 million and $0.7 million, respectively, while the U.S. Dollar weakened 0.3% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a loss of $1.6 million. The remaining net currency gain of $1.5 million was related to other currencies and timing of transactions. 
Net sales increased 9% for the 39-week period ended September 29, 2018 when compared to the year-ago period. The outdoor, aviation, marine, and fitness segments collectively increased by 17%, contributing 80% of total revenue. Fitness was the largest portion of our revenue mix at 24% in the first three quarters of 2018 compared to 22% in the first three quarters of 2017. Auto revenue represented the largest portion of our revenue mix in the first three quarters of 2017 at 26% and declined to 20% in the first three quarters of 2018. 
Auto segment revenue decreased 16% from the year-ago period, primarily due to the ongoing PND market contraction. Outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segment revenue increased 12%, 20%, 19%, and 20%, respectively, from the year-ago period. The marine segment revenue increase was primarily driven by sales from recent acquisitions. The aviation segment revenue increase was primarily driven by strong growth across all product lines. The outdoor and fitness segment revenue increases were primarily driven by growth in wearables. 
Cost of goods sold increased 6% in absolute dollars for the 39-week period ended September 29, 2018 when compared to the year-ago period. The increase in revenue outpaced the increase in cost of goods sold, which resulted in a 100 basis point decrease in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago period. 
In the auto segment, cost of goods sold continued to decline with revenue declines, and the slight increase of cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue was primarily due to the write-down of certain product inventories in the first three quarters of 2018. In the marine segment, the decrease in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue primarily resulted from the favorable impact of higher margin Navionics sales on product mix. The fitness segment increase in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue was primarily driven by product mix. In the outdoor segment, cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue was relatively flat compared to the year-ago period. In the aviation segment, the decrease in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue was primarily driven by a reduction in warranty costs compared to the year-ago period. 
Advertising expense decreased 6% in absolute dollars when compared to the year-ago period. The overall decrease in absolute dollars was driven primarily by decreased media advertising spend in the outdoor, fitness, and auto segments, partially offset by increased cooperative advertising within the aviation segment and expenses resulting from prior year acquisitions within the marine segment. 
Selling, general and administrative expense increased 14% in absolute dollars and increased 70 basis points as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago period. The absolute dollar increase was primarily attributable to expenses from recent acquisitions within the marine segment and personnel costs. All other segments were relatively flat as a percent of revenue. 
Operating income increased 11% in absolute dollars and increased 50 basis points as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago period. The growth in operating income on an absolute dollar basis and as a percent of revenue was the result of strong revenue growth and increased gross margins, partially offset by slightly increased operating expenses as a percent of revenue, as discussed above. 
The $3.4 million currency loss recognized in the first three quarters of 2018 was primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against most other currencies, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Taiwan Dollar within the 39-weeks ended September 29, 2018. During this period, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 2.7% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a gain of $13.6 million. This was more than offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening 3.2% against the Euro and 3.6% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in losses of $7.7 million and $0.6 million, respectively, and additional net currency losses of $8.7 million related to other currencies and timing of transactions. 
The $13.8 million currency loss recognized in the first three quarters of 2017 was primarily due to the weakening of the U.S. Dollar against the Taiwan Dollar, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar weakening against the Euro and the British Pound Sterling within the 39-weeks ended September 30, 2017. During this period, the U.S. Dollar weakened 7.1% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a loss of $43.1 million, while the U.S. Dollar weakened 12.3% against the Euro and 8.6% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in gains of $22.2 million and $4.2 million, respectively. The remaining net currency gain of $2.9 million was related to other currencies and timing of transactions. 
As of September 29, 2018, we had $2.5 billion of cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities. We primarily use cash flow from operations, and expect that future cash requirements may be used, to fund our capital expenditures, support our working capital requirements, pay dividends, fund strategic acquisitions, and fund share repurchases. We believe that our existing cash balances and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our long-term projected capital expenditures, working capital and other cash requirements. 
It is management’s goal to invest the on-hand cash in accordance with the investment policy, which has been approved by the Board of Directors of each applicable Garmin entity holding the cash. The investment policy’s primary purpose is to preserve capital, maintain an acceptable degree of liquidity, and maximize yield within the constraint of low credit risk. Garmin’s average interest rate returns on cash and investments during the first three quarters of 2018 and 2017 were approximately 1.8% and 1.5%, respectively. The fair value of our securities varies from period to period due to changes in interest rates, in the performance of the underlying collateral and in the credit performance of the underlying issuer, among other factors. See Note 8 for additional information regarding marketable securities. 
The $239.2 million increase in cash provided by operating activities in the first three quarters of 2018 compared to the first three quarters of 2017 was primarily due to the increase in cash provided by working capital of $107.1 million (which included an increase of $27.7 million in net receipts of accounts receivable, a decrease of $18.7 million in cash paid for inventory, and an increase of $57.1 million in accounts payable) and income taxes payable of $27.8 million. Additionally, the year over year decrease in net income of $62.5 million was offset by other non-cash adjustments to net income of $166.9 million, including an income tax benefit of $168.8 million recognized in the first quarter of 2017 related to the revaluation of certain Switzerland deferred tax assets. 
The $149.7 million increase in cash used in investing activities in the first three quarters of 2018 compared to the first three quarters of 2017 was primarily due to increased net purchases of marketable securities of $102.4 million and higher cash expenditures for purchases of property and equipment of $36.6 million. 
We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. 
 Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  
The Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program on February 13, 2015, authorizing the Company to purchase up to $300 million of its common shares as market and business conditions warrant. In December 2016, the Board of Directors authorized an extension through December 31, 2017 to purchase remaining common shares. The share repurchase authorization expired on December 31, 2017 with no additional shares having been repurchased during the 39-weeks ended September 29, 2018. 
