Overview 
The Company is a leading worldwide provider of navigation, communications and information devices, most of which are enabled by Global Positioning System, or GPS, technology. We operate in five reportable segments, the outdoor, fitness, marine, auto and aviation markets. The Company’s segments offer products through its network of independent dealers and distributors. However, the nature of products and types of customers for the five segments may vary significantly. As such, the segments are managed separately. 
The Company adopted the new accounting standard for revenue recognition, as discussed in Note 1 – Accounting Policies of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, effective beginning with the Company’s first quarter of 2018. Adoption of the new revenue recognition standard was applied using the full retrospective method, and information for prior periods within Results of Operations have been restated accordingly. 
Allocation of certain research and development expenses, and selling, general, and administrative expenses are made to each segment on a percent of revenue basis. The segment table located in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements sets forth the Company’s results of operations (in thousands) including net sales, gross profit, and operating income for each of the Company’s five segments during the periods shown. For each line item in the table, the total of the outdoor, fitness, marine, auto, and aviation segments' amounts equals the amount in the condensed consolidated statements of income included in Item 1. 
Net Sales 
Net sales increased 8% for the 13-week period ended June 30, 2018 when compared to the year-ago quarter. The outdoor, aviation, marine, and fitness segments collectively increased by 17%, contributing 80% of total revenue. Fitness was the largest portion of our revenue mix at 25% in the second quarter of 2018 compared to 22% in the second quarter of 2017. Auto revenue represented the largest portion of our revenue mix in the second quarter of 2017 at 27% and declined to 20% in the second quarter of 2018. 
Total unit sales in the second quarter of 2018 decreased to 3,783 when compared to total unit sales of 3,904 in the second quarter of 2017. 
Auto segment revenue decreased 19% from the year-ago quarter, primarily due to the ongoing PND market contraction. Outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segment revenues increased 4%, 24%, 24%, and 23%, respectively, when compared to the year-ago quarter. The current quarter marine segment increase was primarily driven by sales of the newly acquired Navionics business, in addition to sales growth across most product lines. The fitness segment revenues increase was primarily driven by strong sales in advanced wearables and cycling products. Outdoor and aviation segment revenue increases were driven by increased sales across most product lines within each segment. 
Cost of Goods Sold 
Advertising Expense 
Advertising expense increased 4% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenues compared to the year-ago quarter. The total absolute dollar increase was driven primarily by increased cooperative advertising associated with higher sales. Auto advertising expense, in absolute dollars and as a percent of revenue, increased compared to the year-ago quarter primarily due to a refresh of point-of-sale displays. Outdoor advertising expense decreased in absolute dollars and as a percent of revenues due to reduced media advertising spend. Advertising expense, as a percent of revenues, decreased in the fitness segment due to greater leverage on fitness advertising spend. 
Selling, General and Administrative Expense 
Selling, general and administrative expense increased 14% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenues compared to the year-ago quarter. The absolute dollar increase in the second quarter of 2018 was primarily attributable to personnel costs and expenses from recent acquisitions. The auto segment increase as a percent of revenues in the second quarter of 2018 was primarily attributable to accelerated amortization of an intangible asset related to a previous acquisition. The increase in absolute dollars and as a percent of revenues in the marine segment was primarily attributable to expenses associated with recent acquisitions. 
Research and Development Expense 
Operating Income 
Operating income increased 4% in absolute dollars and decreased 90 basis points as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago quarter. The growth in operating income in absolute dollars is primarily attributable to revenue growth while the slight decrease in operating income as a percent of revenues is primarily attributable to the increased operating expenses, as discussed above. 
Foreign currency gains and losses for the Company are typically driven by movements in the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling in relation to the U.S. Dollar. The Taiwan Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin Corporation, the U.S. Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin (Europe) Ltd., and the Euro is the functional currency of most of our other European subsidiaries, although some transactions and balances are denominated in British Pounds. The majority of the Company’s consolidated foreign currency gain or loss is typically driven by the significant cash and marketable securities, receivables and payables held in a currency other than the functional currency at a given legal entity. Due to the relative size of the entities using a functional currency other than the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling, currency fluctuations related to these entities are not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial statements. 
The $2.6 million currency gain recognized in the second quarter of 2018 was primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against the Taiwan Dollar, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Euro and British Pound Sterling within the 13-weeks ended June 30, 2018. During this period, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 4.7% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a gain of $26.7 million, while the U.S. Dollar strengthened 5.2% against the Euro and 5.8% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in losses of $14.0 million and $1.9 million, respectively. The remaining net currency loss of $8.2 million was related to other currencies and timing of transactions. 
The $15.1 million currency gain recognized in the second quarter of 2017 was primarily due to the weakening of the U.S. Dollar against the Euro and the British Pound Sterling and slight strengthening against the Taiwan Dollar within the 13-weeks ended July 1, 2017. During this period, the U.S. Dollar weakened 7.3% against the Euro and 3.8% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in gains of $11.5 million and $2.7 million, respectively, while the U.S. Dollar strengthened 0.3% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a gain of $1.3 million. The remaining net currency loss of $0.4 million was related to other currencies and timing of transactions. 
The Company recorded income tax expense of $45.7 million in the 13-week period ended June 30, 2018, compared to income tax expense of $57.3 million in the 13-week period ended July 1, 2017, which included tax expense of $7.3 million associated with the expiration of share-based awards. The effective tax rate was 19.4% in the second quarter of 2018, compared to 24.5% in the second quarter of 2017. Excluding the effect of the $7.3 million tax expense associated with the expiration of share-based awards in second quarter of 2017, the second quarter of 2018 effective tax rate decreased 200 basis points compared to the effective tax rate in the prior year quarter primarily due to the reduction of the U.S. corporate tax rate. 
Net Income 
As a result of the above, net income for the 13-weeks ended June 30, 2018 was $190.3 million compared to $177.0 million for the 13-week period ended July 1, 2017, an increase of $13.3 million. 
Comparison of 26-Weeks Ended June 30, 2018 and 26-Weeks Ended July 1, 2017 
Net Sales 
Net sales increased 9% for the 26-week period ended June 30, 2018 when compared to the year-ago period. The outdoor, aviation, marine, and fitness segments collectively increased by 18%, contributing 80% of total revenue. Fitness was the largest portion of our revenue mix at 24% in the first half of 2018 compared to 22% in the first half of 2017. Auto revenue represented the largest portion of our revenue mix in the first half of 2017 at 26% and declined to 20% in the first half of 2018. 
Total unit sales in the first half of 2018 decreased to 6,739 when compared to the total unit sales of 7,003 in the first half of 2017. 
Auto segment revenue decreased 16% from the year-ago period, primarily due to the ongoing PND market contraction. Outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segment revenues increased 11%, 23%, 17%, and 21%, respectively, from the year-ago period. Marine segment revenue increases were primarily driven by sales from recent acquisitions. Fitness segment revenue increases were primarily driven by strong growth in advanced wearables and newly introduced products. Outdoor segment revenue increases were primarily driven by significant growth in the wearable category. Aviation revenue increases were driven by strong sales across most product lines. 
Cost of Goods Sold 
Cost of goods sold increased 6% in absolute dollars for the 26-week period ended June 30, 2018 when compared to the year-ago period. The increase in revenues outpaced the increase in cost of goods sold, which resulted in a 100 basis point decrease in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenues compared to the year-ago period. 
Advertising Expense 
Selling, General and Administrative Expense 
Selling, general and administrative expense increased 15% in absolute dollars and increased 70 basis points as a percent of revenues when compared to the year-ago period. The absolute dollar increase was primarily attributable to personnel costs and expenses from recent acquisitions within the marine segment. All segments, except for marine, were relatively flat as a percent of revenues. 
Research and Development Expense 
Operating Income 
Operating income increased 10% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago period. The growth in operating income on an absolute dollar basis was the result of strong revenue growth. Operating income was relatively flat as a percent of revenue primarily due to an increase in gross margin, offset by increased operating expenses as discussed above. 
The $3.5 million currency gain recognized in the first half of 2018 was primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against the Taiwan Dollar, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Euro and British Pound Sterling within the 26-weeks ended June 30, 2018. During this period, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 2.7% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a gain of $13.9 million, while the U.S. Dollar strengthened 2.6% against the Euro and 2.3% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in losses of $5.1 million and $0.1 million, respectively. The remaining net currency loss of $5.2 million was related to other currencies and timing of transactions. 
The $22.4 million currency loss recognized in the first half of 2017 was primarily due to the weakening of the U.S. Dollar against the Taiwan Dollar within the 26-weeks ended July 1, 2017. During this period, the U.S. Dollar weakened 6.8% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a loss of $41.6 million, while the U.S. Dollar weakened 8.7% against the Euro and 5.6% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in gains of $14.2 million and $3.5 million, respectively. The remaining net currency gain of $1.5 million was related to other currencies and timing of transactions. 
Net Income 
As of June 30, 2018, we had $2,422.4 million of cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities. We primarily use cash flow from operations, and expect that future cash requirements may be used, to fund our capital expenditures, support our working capital requirements, pay dividends, fund strategic acquisitions, and fund share repurchases. We believe that our existing cash balances and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our long-term projected capital expenditures, working capital and other cash requirements. 
It is management’s goal to invest the on-hand cash in accordance with the investment policy, which has been approved by the Board of Directors of each applicable Garmin entity holding the cash. The investment policy’s primary purpose is to preserve capital, maintain an acceptable degree of liquidity, and maximize yield within the constraint of low credit risk. Garmin’s average interest rate returns on cash and investments during the first half of 2018 and 2017 were approximately 1.8% and 1.5%, respectively. The fair value of our securities varies from period to period due to changes in interest rates, in the performance of the underlying collateral and in the credit performance of the underlying issuer, among other factors. See Note 8 for additional information regarding marketable securities. 
Operating Activities 
The $174.2 million increase in cash provided by operating activities in the first half of 2018 compared to the first half of 2017 was primarily due to the increase in cash provided by working capital of $84.4 million (which included an increase of $24.6 million in net receipts of accounts receivable and a decrease of $30.6 million in cash paid for inventory) and income taxes payable of $27.6 million. Additionally, the year over year decrease in net income of $95.7 million was offset by other non-cash adjustments to net income of $157.9 million, including an income tax benefit of $168.8 million recognized in the first quarter of 2017 related to the revaluation of certain Switzerland deferred tax assets. 
Investing Activities 
The $167.2 million increase in cash used in investing activities in the first half of 2018 compared to the first half of 2017 was primarily due to increased net purchases of marketable securities of $117.1 million and higher cash expenditures for purchases of property and equipment of $53.3 million. 
The $60.1 million decrease in cash used in financing activities during the first half of 2018 compared to the first half of 2017 was primarily due to decreased purchases of treasury stock under our share repurchase authorization of $64.0 million. 
We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. 
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 
General 
The Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program on February 13, 2015, authorizing the Company to purchase up to $300 million of its common shares as market and business conditions warrant. In December 2016, the Board of Directors authorized an extension through December 31, 2017 to purchase remaining common shares. The share repurchase authorization expired on December 31, 2017 with no additional shares having been repurchased during the 26-weeks ended June 30, 2018.  
