fls.txt



item1.txt
[1] Prior year balances have been restated to reflect the retrospective application of the new revenue recognition accounting standard.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
[1] Prior year balances have been restated to reflect the retrospective application of the new revenue recognition accounting standard.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
[1] Prior year balances have been restated to reflect the retrospective application of the new revenue recognition accounting standard.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
[1] Prior year balances have been restated to reflect the retrospective application of the new revenue recognition accounting standard.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying interim condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with United States (U.S.) generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) for interim financial information and the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X, and should be read in conjunction with the Xilinx, Inc. (Xilinx or the Company) consolidated financial statements filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018.
The results of operations for the interim periods shown in this report are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending March 30, 2019 or any future period.
Fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018 are both 52-week years ending on March 30, 2019 and March 31, 2018, respectively.
Note 2.Recent Accounting Changes and Accounting Pronouncements In April 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued the authoritative guidance, as amended, that outlines a new revenue recognition standard that replaces virtually all existing U.S. GAAP guidance on contracts with customers and the related other assets and deferred costs.
The authoritative guidance provides a five-step process for recognizing revenue that depicts the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled, in exchange for those goods or services.
Revenue from sales to the Company's distributors is recognized upon shipment of the product to the distributors (sell-in) and is reduced by estimated allowances for distributor price adjustments and rights of return.
In January 2016, the FASB issued final authoritative guidance regarding how companies measure equity investments that do not result in consolidation and are not accounted for under the equity method and how they present changes in the fair value of financial liabilities measured under the fair value option that are attributable to their own credit.
The authoritative guidance also changes certain disclosure requirements and other aspects of current U.S. GAAP on this matter.


item2.txt
When determining the fair values of assets required and liabilities acquired, management makes significant estimates and assumptions, especially with respect to intangible assets.
•Advanced Products include our most recent product offerings and consist of the Alveo branded boards, UltraScale+, UltraScale and 7-series product families.
•Core Products consist of all other product families.
Net revenues from Advanced Products increased in the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2019 compared to the comparable prior year periods.


item3.txt
In accordance with our investment policy, we place investments with high credit quality issuers and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer based upon the issuer’s credit rating.


item4.txt



part2.txt
"Financial Statements" for information regarding patent litigation.
•market acceptance of our customers' products.
We rely on independent foundries for the manufacture of all of our products and a manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity could adversely affect our operations.
Terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined through periodic negotiations with these wafer foundries, which usually result in short-term agreements that do not provide for long-term supply or allocation commitments.
We rely on TSMC, UMC and our other foundries to produce wafers with competitive performance attributes.
Furthermore, we cannot guarantee that the foundries that supply our wafers will offer us competitive pricing terms or other commercial terms important to our business.
We cannot guarantee that our foundries will not experience manufacturing problems, including delays in the realization of advanced manufacturing process technologies or difficulties due to limitations of new and existing process technologies.
We could also experience supply shortages due to very strong demand for our products, or a surge in demand for semiconductors in general, which may lead to tightening of foundry capacity across the industry.


