fls.txt



item1.txt
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying interim condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with United States (U.S.) generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) for interim financial information and the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X, and should be read in conjunction with the Xilinx, Inc. (Xilinx or the Company) consolidated financial statements filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018.
The results of operations for the interim periods shown in this report are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending March 30, 2019 or any future period.
Fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018 are both 52-week years ending on March 30, 2019 and March 31, 2018, respectively.
Note 2.Recent Accounting Changes and Accounting Pronouncements In April 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued the authoritative guidance, as amended, that outlines a new revenue recognition standard that replaces virtually all existing U.S. GAAP guidance on contracts with customers and the related other assets and deferred costs.
Revenue from sales to the Company's distributors is recognized upon shipment of the product to the distributors (sell-in) and is reduced by estimated allowances for distributor price adjustments and rights of return.
In January 2016, the FASB issued final authoritative guidance regarding how companies measure equity investments that do not result in consolidation and are not accounted for under the equity method and how they present changes in the fair value of financial liabilities measured under the fair value option that are attributable to their own credit.
The authoritative guidance does not change the guidance for classifying and measuring investments in debt securities and loans.
The Company adopted this authoritative guidance on April 1, 2018 and recorded the balance of the unrealized losses of $11.0 million as of the end of fiscal 2018 from its investment in debt mutual funds and equity securities to retained earnings, less the related deferred taxes of $2.6 million.
Subsequent changes in fair value from such investments are recorded in the condensed consolidated statements of income.
In October 2016, the FASB issued authoritative guidance on income taxes which eliminates the deferred tax effects of intra-entity asset transfers other than inventory.
The new authoritative guidance is effective for public business entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years, which for Xilinx would be the first quarter of fiscal 2020.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this new authoritative guidance on its condensed consolidated financial statements.


item2.txt
•Core Products consist of all other product families.
Net revenues from Advanced Products increased in the first three months of fiscal 2019 compared to the comparable prior year period.
The increase was a result of sales growth from our 16nm and 20nm product families.
Net revenues from Core Products increased in the first three months of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year period.


item3.txt
In accordance with our investment policy, we place investments with high credit quality issuers and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer based upon the issuer’s credit rating.


item4.txt



part2.txt
"Financial Statements" for information regarding patent litigation.
•market acceptance of our customers' products.
We rely on independent foundries for the manufacture of all of our products and a manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity could adversely affect our operations.
Terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined through periodic negotiations with these wafer foundries, which usually result in short-term agreements that do not provide for long-term supply or allocation commitments.
We rely on TSMC, UMC and our other foundries to produce wafers with competitive performance attributes.
Furthermore, we cannot guarantee that the foundries that supply our wafers will offer us competitive pricing terms or other commercial terms important to our business.
We cannot guarantee that our foundries will not experience manufacturing problems, including delays in the realization of advanced manufacturing process technologies or difficulties due to limitations of new and existing process technologies.
We could also experience supply shortages due to very strong demand for our products, or a surge in demand for semiconductors in general, which may lead to tightening of foundry capacity across the industry.


