fls.txt



item1.txt
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying interim condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with United States (U.S.) generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) for interim financial information and the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X, and should be read in conjunction with the Xilinx, Inc. (Xilinx or the Company) consolidated financial statements filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 30, 2019.
The results of operations for the interim periods shown in this report are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending March 28, 2020 or any future period.
Fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019 are both 52-week years ending on March 28, 2020 and March 30, 2019, respectively.
The Company adopted this authoritative guidance using modified retrospective method during first quarter of fiscal 2020 and resulted in the recognition of right-of-use assets of approximately $50.0 million and lease liabilities for operating leases of approximately $50.0 million on March 31, 2019, the beginning of fiscal 2020.
On the commencement date, leases are evaluated for classification, and assets and liabilities are recognized based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
The Company has elected the practical expedients to not separate lease and non-lease components within lease transactions, and not to record on the balance sheet leases with a term of 12 months or less.
The Company also has elected the package of practical expedients, which allows the Company not to reassess (1) whether any expired or existing contracts as of the adoption date are or contain a lease, (2) lease classification for any expired or existing leases as of the adoption date and (3) initial direct costs for any existing leases as of the adoption date.
The Company recognizes its operating leases within its other assets, other accrued liabilities and other long-term liabilities on the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets.
As of June 29, 2019 and March 30, 2019, Avnet accounted for 40% and 37% of the Company’s total net accounts receivable, respectively.
Net revenues from Avnet accounted for 40% and 52% of the Company’s worldwide net revenues in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and 2019, respectively.


item2.txt
•Advanced Products include our most recent product offerings and consist of the UltraScale+, UltraScale and 7-series product families and our Alveo boards products.
Net revenues from Advanced Products increased in the first three months of fiscal 2020 compared to the comparable prior year period.
Net revenues from Core Products decreased in the first three months of fiscal 2020 from the comparable prior year period.
The increase was due to higher sales from all sub-segments, in particular from consumer business.


item3.txt
In accordance with our investment policy, we place investments with high credit quality issuers and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer based upon the issuer’s credit rating.


item4.txt



part2.txt
"Financial Statements" for information regarding patent litigation.
The following risk factors and other information included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q should be carefully considered.
•market acceptance of our customers' products.
We rely on independent foundries for the manufacture of all of our products and a manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity could adversely affect our operations.
Terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined through periodic negotiations with these wafer foundries, which usually result in short-term agreements that do not provide for long-term supply or allocation commitments.
We rely on TSMC, UMC and our other foundries to produce wafers with competitive performance attributes.
Furthermore, we cannot guarantee that the foundries that supply our wafers will offer us competitive pricing terms or other commercial terms important to our business.
We cannot guarantee that our foundries will not experience manufacturing problems, including delays in the realization of advanced manufacturing process technologies or difficulties due to limitations of new and existing process technologies.
Furthermore, we cannot guarantee that the foundries will be able to manufacture sufficient quantities of our products or that they will continue to manufacture a given product for the full life of the product.


