fls.txt



item1.txt
When determining the allowances, financing receivables are evaluated either on an individual or a collective basis.
During the third quarter of 2017, IBM Credit LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of the company, filed a shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) allowing it to offer for sale public debt securities.
There were no goodwill impairment losses recorded during the first nine months of 2018 or the full year of 2017 and the company has no accumulated impairment losses.
The guidance makes some changes to lessor accounting, including the elimination of the use of third-party residual value guarantee insurance in the lease classification test, and overall aligns with the new revenue recognition guidance.
The company considers any receivable with an individually evaluated reserve as an impaired receivable.
During the first quarter of 2018, IBM Credit LLC issued fixed- and floating-rate debt securities in the aggregate amount of $2.0 billion with maturity dates ranging from 2021 to 2023.
At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the total notional amount of the company’s interest rate swaps was $9.9 billion and $9.1 billion, respectively.
As a result, revenue is generally recognized over the period the services are provided on a usage basis.
For derivatives and debt securities, the company uses a discounted cash flow analysis using discount rates commensurate with the duration of the instrument.
Accounting guidance permits the measurement of eligible financial assets, financial liabilities and firm commitments at fair value, on an instrument-by-instrument basis, that are otherwise not permitted to be accounted for at fair value under other accounting standards.
In these types of arrangements, revenue from sales of third-party vendor products or services is recorded net of costs when the company is acting as an agent between the client and the vendor, and gross when the company is the principal for the transaction.
A cross-functional implementation team is evaluating the lease portfolio, system, process, control and policy change requirements.
The following tables summarize the impacts as of and for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018.
If at any time these estimates indicate that the contract will be unprofitable, the entire estimated loss for the remainder of the contract is recorded immediately.
These swaps are accounted for as cash flow hedges.
Certain non-financial assets such as property, plant and equipment, land, goodwill and intangible assets are also subject to nonrecurring fair value measurements if they are deemed to be impaired.


item2.txt
The company generated $11.1 billion in cash flows provided by operating activities, an increase of $0.1 billion compared to the first nine months of 2017, driven primarily by an increase in cash provided by financing receivables ($0.4 billion); partially offset by an increase in cash income tax payments ($0.3 billion).
The total IBM receivables provision coverage was 1.9 percent at September 30, 2018, an increase of 30 basis points compared to December 31, 2017.
Financial market performance could increase the legally mandated minimum contributions in certain non-U.S. countries that require more frequent remeasurement of the funded status.
· Higher net exchange gains ($21 million).
Operating (non-GAAP) income from continuing operations of $3.1 billion increased 2.9 percent with an operating (non-GAAP) income margin from continuing operations of 16.7 percent, an increase of 0.8 points year to year.
The percentage of Global Financing receivables reserved increased from 1.1 percent at December 31, 2017, to 1.2 percent at September 30, 2018.
Item 2.
The calculation used by management involves estimates and judgments to gauge the extent of a client’s commitment, including the type and duration of the agreement, and the presence of termination charges or wind-down costs.
Within Systems Hardware, third quarter IBM Z revenue grew 5.2 percent as reported (6 percent adjusted for currency), driven by new workload MIPS.
The increase in total revenue of $257 million in the first nine months of 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 was due to an increase in internal revenue of 34.1 percent, driven by an increase in used equipment sales (up 40.0 percent to $926 million) and an increase in financing (up 19.2 percent to $314 million).
The year-to-year increases in internal financing revenue in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 were due to higher asset yields and higher average asset balances.
The company has consistently generated strong cash flows from operations and continues to have access to additional sources of liquidity through the capital markets and its credit facilities.
For the first nine months of the year, pre-tax income of $4,718 million increased 4.3 percent compared to the prior year with a pre-tax margin improvement of 1.0 points to 31.1 percent.
In the company’s Consolidated Statement of Earnings, the external debt-related interest expense supporting Global Financing’s internal financing to the company is reclassified from cost of financing to interest expense.


item4.txt



part2.txt



