fls.txt



item1.txt
  (3)   U.S government securities reported as marketable securities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
The company believes it will prevail on these matters.
Management’s Retirement Plans Committee and three current or former IBM executives are named as defendants.
Oniqua is a global innovator in maintenance-repair-operate inventory optimization solutions and services for asset-intensive industries.
Accounts payable, other accrued expenses and short-term debt (excluding the current portion of long-term debt) are financial liabilities with carrying values that approximate fair value.
On March 22, 2016, the Indiana Supreme Court affirmed the outcome of the Indiana Court of Appeals and remanded the case to the Indiana Superior Court.
The following tables present the recorded investment net of allowance for credit losses for each class of receivables, by credit quality indicator, at June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017.
The customer is not considered committed when they are able to terminate for convenience without payment of a substantive penalty.
For individually evaluated receivables, the company determines the expected cash flow for the receivable and calculates an estimate of the potential loss and the probability of loss.
In most cases, the arrangement is a single performance obligation comprised of a series of distinct services that are substantially the same and that have the same pattern of transfer (i.e., distinct days of service).
The company cooperated with the SEC in this matter.
The company’s hardware offerings include the sale or lease of system servers and storage solutions.
The net carrying amount of intangible assets decreased $398 million during the first six months of 2018, primarily due to intangible asset amortization, partially offset by additions resulting from capitalized software.
The individual actions were previously stayed.
The company contributed $215 million in U.S. Treasury securities to the U.S. nonpension postretirement benefit plan during the six months ended June 30, 2018, and $230 million in U.S. Treasury securities during the six months ended June 30, 2017.


item2.txt
Based on the currency rate movements in the first six months of 2018, total revenue increased 4.4 percent as reported and 0.8 percent at constant currency versus the first six months of 2017.
The company has consistently generated strong cash flows from operations and continues to have access to additional sources of liquidity through the capital markets and its credit facilities.
The estimated total services backlog at June 30, 2018 was $116 billion, a decrease of 1.6 percent as reported (1 percent adjusted for currency).
The company expects 2018 pre-tax retirement-related plan cost to be approximately $3.1 billion, an increase of approximately $200 million compared to 2017.
Total expense and other (income) decreased 1.6 percent in the second quarter of 2018.
The company continues to manage the investment portfolio to meet its capital preservation and liquidity objectives.
The following table presents external Global Financing receivables excluding residual values, the allowance for credit losses and immaterial miscellaneous receivables.
Systems Hardware revenue of $1,756 million grew 32.2 percent as reported (31 percent adjusted for currency) driven by continued broad-based z14 adoption, growth in Power Systems and a return to growth in Storage Systems, as reported and adjusted for currency.
Over the long term, in consideration of the opportunities it will continue to develop, the company expects to have the ability to generate low single-digit revenue growth, and with a higher-value business mix, mid single-digit profit growth, high single-digit operating (non-GAAP) earnings per share growth, with free cash flow realization of GAAP net income over 90 percent.
Global Financing facilitates IBM clients’ acquisition of information technology systems, software and services by providing financing solutions in the areas where the company has the expertise, while generating strong returns on equity.
For the first six months of 2018, gross profit margin decreased 1.2 points to 77.0 percent.
The company continues to address emerging workloads across the IBM Z platform including blockchain, machine learning, dev ops and payments.
Overall interest expense (excluding capitalized interest) for the second quarter and first six months of 2018 was $367 million and $713 million, respectively, an increase of $47 million and $101 million versus the comparable prior year periods, primarily driven by a higher average debt balance and higher average interest rates.
· Higher interest income ($13 million).


item4.txt



part2.txt



