fls.txt



item1.txt
The credit facilities also include a covenant on the company’s consolidated net interest expense ratio, which cannot be less than 2.20 to 1.0, as well as a cross default provision with respect to other defaulted indebtedness of at least $500 million.
The company did not have any cash flow hedges relating to this program outstanding at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018.
These swaps are accounted for as cash flow hedges.
Refer to note 8, “Segments,” for additional information on the changes in reportable segments.
Access to cost-effective financing can result in interest rate mismatches with the underlying assets.
Items valued using internally generated models are classified according to the lowest level input or value driver that is significant to the valuation.
At March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the total notional amount of derivative instruments in economic hedges of foreign currency exposure was $5.0 billion and $5.2 billion, respectively.
This amount generally represents the legally mandated minimum contribution.
The impairment models used for non-financial assets depend on the type of asset.
This amount generally represents the legally mandated minimum contribution.
At March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the total notional amount of forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges of forecasted royalty and cost transactions was $10.0 billion and $9.8 billion, respectively.
The company optimizes the recovery of residual values by extending lease arrangements with existing clients.
The amount of revenue recognized during the three months ended March 31, 2018 that was included within the deferred income balance at January 1, 2018 was $3.5 billion and was also primarily related to services and software.
The amount recognized in accounts payable for the obligation to return cash collateral was $20 million and $70 million at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.
When lease arrangements include multiple performance obligations, the company allocates the consideration in the contract between the lease components and the non-lease components on a relative standalone selling price basis.


item2.txt
· An increase in operating right-of-use assets of $4.6 billion resulting from the adoption of the new leasing standard; partially offset by
The periods presented in this Form 10-Q are reported on a comparable basis.
Overall interest expense (excluding capitalized interest) for the first quarter of 2019 was $389 million, an increase of $42 million versus the comparable prior-year period, primarily driven by a higher average debt balance and higher average interest rates.
These declines were driven by IBM Z and Storage Systems, partially offset by growth in Power Systems.
Additionally, the company maintains sufficient flexibility to access global funding sources as needed.
As the company continued to optimize its portfolio and invest in emerging, high-value areas of the IT industry, there was strong performance in offerings that help clients with their digital transformation and shift of mission-critical work to the cloud.
The periods presented in this Form 10-Q are reported on a comparable basis.
Total cloud revenue of $4.5 billion in the first quarter of 2019 grew 7 percent as reported and 12 percent adjusted for currency.
Bad debt expense decreased $7 million year to year.
The company will target a leverage profile consistent with a mid to high single A credit rating.
· Lower non-operating retirement-related costs ($264 million).
The company expects revenue dynamics from the first quarter to the second quarter of 2019 to be similar to the last two years, which is a sequential increase of approximately $900 million to $1 billion.
In the first quarter, total revenue of $18,182 million decreased 4.7 percent as reported and 1 percent adjusted for currency compared to the prior year.
· Lower spending (2 points).


item4.txt



part2.txt



