Capitalized costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over the expected period of benefit, which includes anticipated contract renewals or extensions, consistent with the transfer to the client of the services to which the asset relates.
The methodology is consistent with that applied in developing counterparty credit risk adjustments, but incorporates the company’s own credit risk as observed in the credit default swap market.
At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the weighted-average remaining maturity of these instruments was approximately 0.2 years at both periods.
The company may hold warrants to purchase shares of common stock in connection with various investments that are deemed derivatives because they contain net share or net cash settlement provisions.
This amount generally represents the legally mandated minimum contribution.
Revenue from rentals and operating leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the rental or lease.
The company’s primary services offerings include infrastructure services, including outsourcing, and other managed services; application management services; global process services (GPS); maintenance and support; and consulting, including the design and development of complex IT systems to a client’s specifications (e.g., design and build).
On May 13, 2010, IBM and the State of Indiana (acting on behalf of the Indiana Family and Social Services Administration) sued one another in a dispute over a 2006 contract regarding the modernization of social service program processing in Indiana.
When the company performs services prior to billing the client in design and build contracts, the right to consideration is typically subject to milestone completion or client acceptance and the unbilled accounts receivable is classified as a contract asset.
The company is party to, or otherwise involved in, proceedings brought by U.S. federal or state environmental agencies under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), known as “Superfund,” or laws similar to CERCLA.
· Level 3—Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.This is all taken into account in the full-year expectations.
investment grade year to year (1 point) was driven primarily by rating changes within the existing portfolio, not by changing the company’s approach to the market.
The company continues to manage the investment portfolio to meet its capital preservation and liquidity objectives.
As the company continues to transform this business, GBS signings grew again in the quarter, both as reported and adjusted for currency.
The company entered into new partnership agreements in the first three months of 2018, which included one transaction with period income greater than $100 million.
The company also generated $4.6 billion in cash from operations and $1.3 billion in free cash flow in the first quarter of 2018 and delivered shareholder returns of $2.2 billion through gross common stock repurchases and dividends.
Within Americas, the U.S. decreased 2.0 percent compared to the prior year.
This stabilization was driven by productivity, revenue mix and pricing improvements.