fls.txt



item1.txt
●Credit risk adjustments are applied to reflect the company’s own credit risk when valuing all liabilities measured at fair value.
In January 2016, the FASB issued guidance which addresses aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of financial instruments.
The maximum length of time over which the company has hedged its exposure to the variability in future cash flows is four years.
The amendment also simplified the impairment test of equity investments that lack readily determinable fair value.
In January 2017, the FASB issued guidance that simplifies the goodwill impairment test by removing Step 2.
Under a sales-type lease, initial direct costs are expensed at lease commencement.
Total contributions to the non-U.S. plans in the first six months of 2018 were $237 million, of which $80 million was in cash and $157 million in U.S. Treasury securities.
On August 7, 2017, the Indiana Superior Court awarded the State $128 million, which it then offset against IBM’s previously affirmed award of $50 million, resulting in a $78 million award to the State, plus interest.
Client loans and installment payment financing contracts are priced independently at competitive market rates.
The company optimizes the recovery of residual values by extending lease arrangements with, or selling leased equipment to existing clients.
The guidance required certain equity investments to be measured at fair value with changes recognized in net income.
This exposure was reduced by $262 million and $267 million at June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively, of liabilities included in master netting arrangements with those counterparties.
These inputs relate to liquid, heavily traded currencies with active markets which are available for the full term of the derivative.
The company has elected the practical expedient to not provide comparable presentation in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position for periods prior to adoption.
The company’s credit quality indicators, which are based on rating agency data, publicly available information and information provided by customers, are reviewed periodically based on the relative level of risk.


item2.txt
For the first six months of 2019, Systems gross profit margin increased 2.6 points to 50.3 percent compared to the prior year, driven by actions taken in 2018 to better position the systems cost structure over the longer term.
The company’s strategies, investments and actions are all made with an objective of optimizing long-term performance.
The decline in expense was primarily due to a decrease in the provision for credit losses driven by lower reserve requirements in the current year.
The company will continue with a disciplined financial policy and is committed to maintaining strong investment grade credit ratings and supporting a solid and growing dividend.
Effective with the first quarter of 2019, the company made a number of changes to its organizational structure and management system.
A key objective of the Global Financing business is to generate strong returns on equity, and increasing receivables is the basis for growth.
Additional information will be provided when the company provides updated full-year 2019 expectations at the August 2nd briefing.
The pre-tax margin for the first six months of 2019 included a lower level of workforce rebalancing charges year to year.
The strong free cash flow generated by the company, portfolio actions taken and the suspension of share repurchases position IBM to return to its target leverage ratios within a couple of years.
The change in the operating (non-GAAP) tax rate was primarily driven by the same factor mentioned above.
With the strong free cash flow generated by the company, portfolio actions taken and the suspension of share repurchases, this positions IBM to return to its target leverage ratios within a couple of years.
The change in the operating (non-GAAP) tax rate was primarily driven by the same factors.
In the first six months of 2019, the company generated $7,700 million in net cash from operations, compared to $6,896 million in the first six months of 2018.
This is consistent with IBM’s capital allocation strategy and high-value focus.


item4.txt



part2.txt



