fls.txt



item1.txt
Each of the facility sizes remain unchanged.
The difference between the company’s total lease commitments as reported at December 31, 2018 compared to the January 1, 2019 ROU asset balance in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position is primarily due to the required use of a discount factor (imputed interest) under the new lease guidance and certain amounts that are not included in the ROU asset under the new lease guidance (e.g., tenant incentives and vacant space).
Items valued using internally generated models are classified according to the lowest level input or value driver that is significant to the valuation.
These arrangements require the company to hold or post collateral (cash or U.S. Treasury securities) when the derivative fair values exceed contractually established thresholds.
The guidance required certain equity investments to be measured at fair value with changes recognized in net income.
restrict the company’s ability to merge or consolidate unless certain conditions are met.
The outstanding contingent consideration is expected to be earned within 24 months of the closing.
The customer is not considered committed when they are able to terminate for convenience without payment of a substantive penalty.
The impairment models used for non-financial assets depend on the type of asset.
Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation.
For Red Hat’s open-source software subscriptions, no revenue is recognized upfront from the licensing of the code itself, but rather, is recognized over time throughout the contract term as control of the promised product or service is transferred to the customer.
IBM equipment generally consists of IBM Z, Power Systems and Storage Systems products.
Fair values are based on discounted future cash flows using current interest rates offered for similar loans to clients with similar credit ratings for the same remaining maturities.
The amount of revenue recognized during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 that was included within the deferred income balance at June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018 was $3.6 billion and $7.7 billion, respectively, and was primarily related to services and software.
Accounting guidance permits the measurement of eligible financial assets, financial liabilities and firm commitments at fair value, on an instrument-by-instrument basis, that are otherwise not permitted to be accounted for at fair value under other accounting standards.


item2.txt
GBS third-quarter gross profit margin of 31.1 percent grew 1.1 points on a year-to-year basis, driven by the continued mix shift to higher-value offerings, the yield from delivery improvement, productivity, and utilization initiatives and a currency benefit from leveraging the global delivery resource model.
The weighted-average number of common shares outstanding assuming dilution during the third quarter and first nine months of 2019 were 22.4 million (2.4 percent) and 27.5 million (3.0 percent) shares lower than the same periods of 2018.
expertise and technology to provide clients a holistic approach to de-risk and orchestrate their digital transformation journey.
This is consistent with IBM’s capital allocation strategy and high-value focus.
Total sales of used equipment represented 40.8 percent of Global Financing’s revenue in the first nine months of 2019 compared to 49.2 percent in the first nine months of 2018.
In order to reduce this debt and return to target leverage ratios within a couple of years, the company suspended its share repurchase program at the time of the Red Hat acquisition closing.
Consistent with the acquisition of a highly profitable software business, non-cash purchase accounting adjustments will result in the Red Hat acquisition being dilutive to full-year 2019 earnings per share expectations.
The change in the operating (non-GAAP) tax rate was primarily driven by the same factors mentioned above.
In the company’s 2018 Annual Report, on pages 60 to 62, there is a discussion of the company’s liquidity including two tables that present three years of data.
Refer to page 101 for the details of the after-tax income and return on equity calculation.
landscape and accelerate the company’s high value business model.
resulted in a theoretical maximum (assuming no pricing or sourcing actions) increase of approximately $240 million in the first nine months of 2019 on an as-reported basis and an increase of approximately $210 million on an operating (non-GAAP) basis.
The full text of IBM’s By-Laws, as amended effective October 29, 2019, is included as Exhibit 3.2 to this report.
In the company’s 2018 Annual Report, on pages 60 to 62, there is a discussion of the company’s liquidity including two tables that present three years of data.


item4.txt



part2.txt



