Item 4.
Controls and Procedures
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
Based on an evaluation under the supervision and with the participation of our management, our principal executive officer and our principal financial officer have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act were effective as of September 30, 2019, to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is (i) recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC rules and forms and (ii) accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Effective January 1, 2019, we adopted ASU 2016-02, Leases and all of the related amendments.
Although the new lease standard is not expected to have a material impact on our operating results on an ongoing basis, we did implement changes to our processes related to lease control activities, including information systems.
These included the development of new policies based on identifying leases, determining lease commencement, calculating the present value of leases, determining the incremental borrowing rate and gathering information for required disclosures.
There were no other changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the third quarter of 2019, which were identified in connection with management’s evaluation required by paragraph (d) of Rules 13a-15 and 15d-15 under the Exchange Act, that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures
Not applicable.
Item 5.
Other Information
None.
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
NATIONAL INSTRUMENTS CORPORATION
Karen Rapp
EVP, Chief Financial Officer
໿
