fls.txt



item1.txt
All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The condensed consolidated balance sheet presented as of December 31, 2018 has been derived from the consolidated audited financial statements as of that date.
This standard requires the recognition of lease assets and liabilities for all leases, with certain exceptions, on the balance sheet.
As such, the Company did not adjust prior period amounts.
The Company also elected to adopt the package of practical expedients upon transition, which permits companies to not reassess lease identification, classification, and initial direct costs for leases that commenced prior to the effective date.
The Company implemented internal controls and a lease accounting information system to enable preparation on adoption.
non-real estate leases are mainly comprised of automobiles but also include copiers, printers and other lower-valued items.
The Company does not have any finance leases.
non-lease  components as a single lease component, and has allocated all of the contract consideration to the lease component only.
non-lease components (e.g. are paid separately from rent based on actual costs incurred.
Such payments primarily include common area maintenance charges and increases in rent payments that are driven by factors such as future changes in an index (e.g., the Consumer Price Index).
The weighted average discount rate and the weighted average remaining lease term were 3.8 Refer to Note 17 for revenue by reportable segment, geography and groupings of similar products.
Accordingly, those investments with contractual maturities greater than one year from the date of purchase are classified as short-term on the accompanying balance sheets.
Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities assessed as of the reporting date.
Level 2 assets and liabilities include debt securities with quoted prices that are traded less frequently than exchange-traded instruments or securities or derivative contracts that are valued using a pricing model with inputs that are observable in the market or can be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data.
Level 3 assets and liabilities include financial instruments whose value is determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques, as well as instruments for which the determination of fair value requires significant management judgment or estimation.
In certain cases, the inputs used to measure fair value may fall into different levels of the fair value hierarchy.
In such cases, the Company categorizes such assets and liabilities based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety.


item2.txt
We are a global provider of instruments, subsystems and process control solutions that measure, monitor, deliver, analyze, power and control critical parameters of advanced manufacturing processes to improve process performance and productivity for our customers.
We funded the payment of the aggregate consideration with a combination of our available cash on hand and the proceeds from our senior secured term loan facility as described below.
Approximately 52% and 44% of our net revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, were from sales to customers in our advanced markets.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, international net revenues accounted for approximately 53% and 50% of our total net revenues, respectively.
A significant portion of our international net revenues was from China, South Korea, Germany and Japan.
We expect that international net revenues will continue to represent a significant percentage of our total net revenues.
We have elected not to recognize on the balance sheet leases with terms of one year or less.
right-of-use assets are recorded based on the present value of lease payments over the expected remaining fixed lease term.
right-of-use asset may be required for items such as incentives received.
In calculating the present value of future lease payments, we utilize our incremental borrowing rates, which are the rates incurred to borrow on a collateralized basis over a similar term an amount equal to the lease payments in a similar economic environment.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
A-16-734039-B, were filed in the District Court, Clark County, Nevada on behalf of a putative class of stockholders of Newport Corporation (“Newport”) for claims related to the merger agreement (“Newport Merger Agreement”) between the Company, Newport, and a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (“Merger Sub”).


