fls.txt



item1.txt
All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The condensed consolidated balance sheet presented as of December 31, 2018 has been derived from the consolidated audited financial statements as of that date.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases.
This standard requires the recognition of lease assets and liabilities for all leases, with certain exceptions, on the balance sheet.
The Company adopted ASU 2016-02 on January 1, 2019, and used the effective date as its date of initial application.
As such, the Company did not adjust prior period amounts.
The Company also elected to adopt the package of practical expedients upon transition, which permits companies to not reassess lease identification, classification, and initial direct costs under ASU 2016-02 for leases that commenced prior to the effective date.
The Company has operating leases for real estate and non-real estate, which are comprised of automobiles, in North America, Europe, and Asia.
The Company does not have any finance leases.
The Company has existing net leases in which the non-lease components (e.g. are paid separately from rent based on actual costs incurred.
Such payments primarily include common area maintenance charges and increases in rent payments that are driven by factors such as future changes in an index (e.g., the Consumer Price Index).
Refer to Note 17 for revenue by reportable segment, geography and groupings of similar products.
Accordingly, those investments with contractual maturities greater than one year from the date of purchase are classified as short-term on the accompanying balance sheets.
Level 1   Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities assessed as of the reporting date.
Active markets are those in which transactions for the asset or liability occur in sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis.
Level 2   Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
Level 2 assets and liabilities include debt securities with quoted prices that are traded less frequently than exchange-traded instruments or securities or derivative contracts that are valued using a pricing model with inputs that are observable in the market or can be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data.
Level 3 assets and liabilities include financial instruments whose value is determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques, as well as instruments for which the determination of fair value requires significant management judgment or estimation.


item2.txt
Risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to those discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 in the section entitled “Risk Factors” as referenced in Part II, Item 1A “Risk Factors” of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
We are a global provider of instruments, subsystems and process control solutions that measure, monitor, deliver, analyze, power and control critical parameters of advanced manufacturing processes to improve process performance and productivity for our customers.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, international net revenues accounted for approximately 52% and 50% of our total net revenues.
A significant portion of our international net revenues was from Japan, Germany, China, South Korea and Israel.
There have been no material changes in our critical accounting policies since December 31, 2018, other than the adoption of ASC 842 as outlined below.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”), Leases, (“ASU 2016-02”), to enhance the transparency and comparability of financial reporting related to leasing arrangements.
Most leases with a term greater than one year are recognized on the balance sheet as right-of-use assets, short-term lease liabilities and long-term lease liabilities.
We have elected not to recognize on the balance sheet leases with terms of one year or less.
Certain adjustments to the right-of-use asset may be required for items such as incentives received.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
A-16-733154-C, and Hubert C. Pincon v. Newport Corp., et al., Case No.
A-16-734039-B, were filed in the District Court, Clark County, Nevada on behalf of a putative class of stockholders of Newport Corporation (“Newport”) for claims related to the merger agreement (“Newport Merger Agreement”) between the Company, Newport, and a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (“Merger Sub”).


