fls.txt



item1.txt
All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The condensed consolidated balance sheet presented as of December 31, 2017 has been derived from the consolidated audited financial statements as of that date.
In March 2018, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2018-05, “Income Taxes (Topic 740).” This standard is an amendment that adopts the language of Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-09, “Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718)-Scope of Modification Accounting.” This standard provides guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting in Topic 718.
The adoption of this ASU did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
In March 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-07, “Compensation-Retirement Benefits (Topic 715)-Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost.” This standard requires that an employer disaggregate the service cost component from the other components of net benefit cost.
The adoption of this ASU did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-01, “Business Combinations (Topic 805)-Clarifying the Definition of a Business.” This standard clarifies the definition of a business with the objective of adding guidance to assist entities with evaluating whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions (or disposals) of assets or businesses.
The adoption of this ASU did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
The adoption of this ASU did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-16, “Income Taxes (Topic 740)-Intra-Entity Transfer of Assets Other Than Inventory.” This standard requires that an entity recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory when the transfer occurs as opposed to when the assets have been sold to an outside party.
The adoption of this ASU did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
The adoption of this ASU did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
The FASB issued additional updates to the new standard in Topic 842 (Update 2018-01 in January 2018 – Land Easement Practical Expedient for Transition to Topic 842, Update 2018-10 – Codification Improvements to Topic 842 and Update 2018-11 in July 2018 – Targeted Improvements).
The management team has communicated its approach to the Audit Committee and will provide regular updates as appropriate.
The Company is currently accumulating details on the population of leases and entering these details into a selected software database, which will be a repository and accounting solution for reporting and disclosure requirements required by the standard.
The Company will continue to assess and disclose the impact that this ASU will have on its consolidated financial statements, disclosures and related controls, when known.


item2.txt
We are a global provider of instruments, subsystems and process control solutions that measure, monitor, deliver, analyze, power and control critical parameters of advanced manufacturing processes to improve process performance and productivity.
Our primary served markets are manufacturers of capital equipment for semiconductor manufacturing, industrial technologies, life and health sciences, as well as research and defense.
Approximately 44% and 42% of our net revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, were from other advanced manufacturing applications.
The semiconductor capital equipment industry is experiencing a moderation in capital spending in the near term and, we have seen a similar effect on our semiconductor revenue in the third quarter and expect that to continue into the fourth quarter.
For both nine month periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, international net revenues accounted for approximately 50% of our total net revenues.
A significant portion of our international net revenues was from South Korea, Japan, Germany, China and Israel.
On October 29, 2018, we entered into a definitive merger agreement to acquire Electro Scientific Industries, Inc. (“ESI”), an innovator in laser-based manufacturing solutions for the micro-machining industry.
We intend to fund the transaction with a combination of available cash on hand and up to $650 million in committed term loan debt financing.
The acquisition is expected to close in the first quarter of 2019, subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions, including receipt of required regulatory approvals and approval by ESI’s shareholders.
Also, on October 29, 2018, we entered into a commitment letter to provide for a $100 million asset-based revolving credit facility for working capital purposes to replace our existing $50 million asset-based revolving credit facility.
We adopted ASC 606 on January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method for all contracts not completed as of the date of adoption.


item4.txt



part2.txt
In March 2016, two putative class actions lawsuit captioned Dixon Chung v. Newport Corp., et al., Case No.


