The accompanying unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring adjustments except those otherwise described herein) considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included, unless otherwise disclosed.
The financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in the Company’s 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K (SEC File No.
EnerSys (the “Company,”) reports interim financial information for 13-week periods, except for the first quarter, which always begins on April 1, and the fourth quarter, which always ends on March 31.
The consolidated condensed financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries and any partially owned subsidiaries that the Company has the ability to control.
•to apply the short-term lease exception to leases that, at the commencement date, has a lease term of 12 months or less and does not include an option to purchase the underlying asset that the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise.
The discount rates used to calculate the ROU assets and lease liabilities as of the effective date were based on the remaining lease terms as of the effective date.
Service revenues related to the work performed for the Company’s customers by its maintenance technicians generally represent a separate and distinct performance obligation.
A small portion of the Company's customer arrangements oblige the Company to create customized products for its customers that require the bundling of both products and services into a single performance obligation because the individual products and services that are required to fulfill the customer requirements do not meet the definition for a distinct performance obligation.
These customized products generally have no alternative use to the Company and the terms and conditions of these arrangements give the Company the enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, including a reasonable profit margin.Additionally, the Company acquired substantially all of the assets of Alpha Technologies Inc. and certain assets of Altair Advanced Industries, Inc. and other affiliates of ATS and ATL (all such sellers, together with ATS and ATL, “Alpha”), in each case in accordance with the terms and conditions of certain restructuring agreements (collectively, the “asset acquisition” and together with the share purchase, the “acquisition”).
These shares were issued out of the Company's treasury stock and were valued at $84.92 per share, which was based on the thirty-day volume weighted average stock price of the Company’s common stock at closing, in accordance with the purchase agreement.
We believe that our financial position is strong, and we have substantial liquidity with $425 million of available cash and cash equivalents and available and undrawn credit lines of approximately $426 million at September 29, 2019 to cover short-term liquidity requirements and anticipated growth in the foreseeable future.
This increase was the result of a 22% increase due to the Alpha acquisition, partially offset by a 4% decrease in organic volume, a 2% decrease in foreign currency translation impact and a 1% decrease in pricing.
This increase was the result of a 22% increase due to the Alpha acquisition, partially offset by a 3% decrease in organic volume, a 2% decrease in foreign currency translation impact and a 1% decrease in pricing.
The Americas segment’s net sales increased $136.3 million or 35.1% in the second quarter of fiscal 2020 as compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2019, primarily due to a 38% increase from the Alpha acquisition, partially offset by a 1% decrease each in organic volume, pricing and foreign currency translation impact.
Net sales increased $260.9 or 33.4% in the six months of fiscal 2020 as compared to the six months of fiscal 2019, primarily due to a 38% increase from the Alpha acquisition, partially offset by a 3% decrease in organic volume and a 1% decrease each in pricing and foreign currency translation impact.A 100 basis point increase in interest rates would have increased interest expense, on an annualized basis, by approximately $8.7 million on the variable rate portions of our debt.