The accompanying unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
The financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in the Company’s 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K (SEC File No.
EnerSys (the “Company”) reports interim financial information for 13-week periods, except for the first quarter, which always begins on April 1, and the fourth quarter, which always ends on March 31.
The consolidated condensed financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries and any partially owned subsidiaries that the Company has the ability to control.
2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)” providing guidance on revenue from contracts with customers that supersedes most current revenue recognition guidance, including industry-specific guidance.
The underlying principle is that an entity will recognize revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers at an amount that the entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services.
1. identify the contract with a customer; 3. determine the transaction price; 4. allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations; and 5. recognize revenue as the performance obligations are satisfied.
The Company recognizes revenue when (or as) performance obligations are satisfied by transferring control of the performance obligation to a customer.
Control of a performance obligation may transfer to the customer either at a point in time or over time depending on an evaluation of the specific facts and circumstances for each contract, including the terms and conditions of the contract as agreed with the customer, as well as the nature of the products or services to be provided.
Service revenues related to the work performed for the Company’s customers by its maintenance technicians generally represent a separate and distinct performance obligation.•Reserve power products are used for backup power for the continuous operation of critical applications in telecommunications systems, uninterruptible power systems, or “UPS” applications for computer and computer-controlled systems, and other specialty power applications, including medical and security systems, premium starting, lighting and ignition applications, in switchgear, electrical control systems used in electric utilities, large-scale energy storage, energy pipelines, in commercial aircraft, satellites, military aircraft, submarines, ships and tactical vehicles.
We believe that our financial position is strong, and we have substantial liquidity with $545 million of available cash and cash equivalents and available and undrawn credit lines of approximately $531 million at September 30, 2018 to cover short-term liquidity requirements and anticipated growth in the foreseeable future.
In fiscal 2018, we entered into a new credit facility (“2017 Credit Facility”) that comprises a $600 million senior secured revolving credit facility (“2017 Revolver”) and a $150 million senior secured term loan (“2017 Term Loan”) with a maturity date of September 30, 2022, which provides us with sufficient liquidity to fund acquisitions and stock repurchase programs.
This increase was the result of a 7% increase in organic volume and a 2% increase in pricing, partially offset by a 2% decrease in foreign currency translation impact.
This increase was the result of a 6% increase in organic volume and a 2% increase in pricing, partially offset by a 1% decrease in foreign currency translation impact.
The Americas segment’s net sales increased $47.1 million or 13.8% in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2018, primarily due to a 12% increase in organic volume and a 3% increase in pricing, partially offset by a 1% decrease in foreign currency translation impact.
Net sales increased $85.0 million or 12.2% in the six months of fiscal 2019 as compared to the six months of fiscal 2018, primarily due to a 11% increase in organic volume and a 3% increase in pricing, partially offset by a 2% decrease in foreign currency translation impact.Those contracts that result in an asset position at September 30, 2018 are $0.1 million (pre-tax) and the vast majority of these will settle within one year.