ITEM 1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



KLA-TENCOR CORPORATION



Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets







See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).



KLA-TENCOR CORPORATION



Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations







See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).



KLA-TENCOR CORPORATION



Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss)







See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).



KLA-TENCOR CORPORATION



Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows







See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).



KLA-TENCOR CORPORATION



Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements





NOTE 1 – BASIS OF PRESENTATION



Basis of Presentation. The condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared by the Company pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations. In the opinion of management, the unaudited interim financial statements reflect all adjustments (consisting only of normal, recurring adjustments) necessary for a fair statement of the financial position, results of operations, comprehensive income (loss), and cash flows for the periods indicated. These financial statements and notes, however, should be read in conjunction with Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017, filed with the SEC on August 4, 2017. 



The condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of KLA-Tencor and its majority-owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.



The results of operations for the three and six months ended December 31, 2017 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any other interim period or for the full fiscal year ending June 30, 2018.



Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior year’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet and notes to conform to the current year presentation. The reclassifications had no effect on the prior year’s Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations, Comprehensive Income (Loss) and Cash Flows.



Management Estimates. The preparation of the condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions in applying the Company’s accounting policies that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities (and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities) at the date of the condensed consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. Actual results could differ from those estimates.





•When the customer fab has previously accepted the same tool, with the same specifications, and when the Company can objectively demonstrate that the tool meets all of the required acceptance criteria. 



•When system sales to independent distributors have no installation requirement, contain no acceptance agreement, and 100% of the payment is due based upon shipment. 



•When the installation of the system is deemed perfunctory. 



•When the customer withholds acceptance due to issues unrelated to product performance, in which case revenue is recognized when the system is performing as intended and meets predetermined specifications. 



In circumstances in which the Company recognizes revenue prior to installation, the portion of revenue associated with installation is deferred based on estimated fair value, and that revenue is recognized upon completion of the installation.



In many instances, products are sold in stand-alone arrangements. Services are sold separately through renewals of annual maintenance contracts. The Company has multiple element revenue arrangements in cases where certain elements of a sales arrangement are not delivered and accepted in one reporting period. To determine the relative fair value of each element in a revenue arrangement, the Company allocates arrangement consideration based on the selling price hierarchy. For substantially all of the arrangements with multiple deliverables pertaining to products and services, the Company uses vendor-specific objective evidence (“VSOE”) or third-party evidence (“TPE”) to allocate the selling price to each deliverable. The Company determines TPE based on historical prices charged for products and services when sold on a stand-alone basis. When the Company is unable to establish relative selling price using VSOE or TPE, the Company uses estimated selling price (“ESP”) in its allocation of arrangement consideration. The objective of ESP is to determine the price at which the Company would transact a sale if the product or service were sold on a stand-alone basis. ESP could potentially be used for new or customized products. The Company regularly reviews relative selling prices and maintains internal controls over the establishment and updates of these estimates. 





Trade-in rights are occasionally granted to customers to trade in tools in connection with subsequent purchases. The Company estimates the value of the trade-in right and reduces the revenue recognized on the initial sale. This amount is recognized at the earlier of the exercise of the trade-in right or the expiration of the trade-in right.



The Company enters into volume purchase agreements with some of its customers. The Company accrues the estimated credits earned by its customers for such incentives, and in situations when the credit levels vary depending upon sales volume, the Company updates its accrual based on the amount that the Company estimates will be purchased pursuant to the volume purchase agreements. Accruals for customer credits are recorded as an offset to revenue or deferred revenue. 



 Spare parts revenue is recognized when the parts have been shipped, risk of loss has passed to the customer and collection of the resulting receivable is reasonably assured.



Service and maintenance contract revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the maintenance contract. Revenue from services performed in the absence of a maintenance contract, including consulting and training revenue, is recognized when the related services are performed and collectibility is reasonably assured.



The Company sells stand-alone software that is subject to software revenue recognition guidance. The Company periodically reviews selling prices to determine whether VSOE exists, and in situations where the Company is unable to establish VSOE for undelivered elements such as post-contract service, revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the service contract.



The Company also defers the fair value of non-standard warranty bundled with equipment sales as unearned revenue. Non-standard warranty includes services incremental to the standard 40-hour per week coverage for 12 months. Non-standard warranty is recognized ratably as revenue when the applicable warranty term period commences. 



The deferred system profit balance equals the value of products that have been shipped and billed to customers which have not met the Company’s revenue recognition criteria, less applicable product and warranty costs. Deferred system profit does not include the profit associated with product shipments to certain customers in Japan, to whom title does not transfer until customer acceptance. Shipments to such customers in Japan are classified as inventory at cost until the time of acceptance.



Recent Accounting Pronouncements.



Recently Adopted



In July 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued an accounting standard update for the subsequent measurement of inventory. The amended guidance requires entities to measure inventory at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Net realizable value is the estimated selling prices in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal and transportation. The requirement would replace the current lower of cost or market evaluation and the accounting guidance is unchanged for inventory measured using last-in, first-out (“LIFO”) or the retail inventory method. The Company adopted this update beginning in the first quarter of its fiscal year ending June 30, 2018 on a prospective basis and there was no impact of adoption on its condensed consolidated financial statements.



Updates Not Yet Effective



In May 2014, the FASB issued an accounting standard update regarding revenue from customer contracts to transfer goods and services or non-financial assets unless the contracts are covered by other standards (for example, insurance or lease contracts). Under the new guidance, an entity should recognize revenue in connection with the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that the entity expects to be entitled to receive in exchange for those goods or services. In addition, the new standard requires that reporting companies disclose the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. The new standard may be applied retrospectively to each prior period presented (“full retrospective transition method”) or retrospectively with the cumulative effect recognized as of the date of adoption (“modified retrospective transition method”). The FASB has also issued several amendments to the standard since its initial issuance. The Company intends to adopt the new standard in the first quarter of its fiscal year ending June 30, 2019 and elected a modified retrospective transition method to be applied to completed and incomplete contracts as of the adoption date.



To address the significant implementation requirements of the accounting standard update, the Company has established a revenue project steering committee and cross-functional implementation team for the implementation of the standard, including a review of all significant revenue arrangements to identify any differences in the timing, measurement, presentation of revenue recognition including new disclosure requirements.





•The Company will account for the standard 12-month warranty for a majority of its products that is not separately paid for by the customers as a performance obligation since the Company provides for necessary repairs as well as preventive maintenance services for such products. The estimated fair value of the service will be deferred and recognized ratably as revenue over the warranty period.





•The Company will recognize revenue for software licenses at the time of delivery since the VSOE requirement for undelivered element such as post-contract support is eliminated and companies are allowed to use established or best estimate selling price for the undelivered element to allocate and defer the revenue. As a result, the Company will recognize as revenue a portion of the sales price upon delivery of the software, compared to the current practice of recognizing the entire sales price ratably over the term of the service contract due to the lack of VSOE. 



The Company will continue to assess the impact of the new standard, including potential changes to the accounting policies, business processes, systems and internal controls over financial reporting and its preliminary assessment of the impact is subject to change. 



In January 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that changes the accounting for financial instruments primarily related to equity investments (other than those accounted for under the equity method of accounting or those that result in consolidation of the investee), financial liabilities under the fair value option, and the presentation and disclosure requirements for financial instruments. The accounting standard update is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of its fiscal year ending June 30, 2019, and early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on its condensed consolidated financial statements.



In February 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update which amends the existing accounting standards for leases. Consistent with current guidance, the recognition, measurement, and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee primarily will depend on its classification. Under the new guidance, a lessee will be required to recognize assets and liabilities for all leases with lease terms of more than 12 months. The update is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of its fiscal year ending June 30, 2020 using a modified retrospective transition method. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on its condensed consolidated financial statements.



In June 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that changes the accounting for recognizing impairments of financial assets. Under the update, credit losses for certain types of financial instruments will be estimated based on expected losses. The update also modifies the impairment models for available-for-sale debt securities and for purchased financial assets with credit deterioration since their origination. The update is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of its fiscal year ending June 30, 2021, with early adoption permitted starting in the first quarter of fiscal year ending June 30, 2020. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on its condensed consolidated financial statements.



In October 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update to recognize the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory when they occur. This eliminates the exception to postpone recognition until the asset has been sold to an outside party. This standard is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of its fiscal year ending June 30, 2019, and early adoption is permitted. It is required to be applied on a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative-effect adjustment to the balance sheet as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on its condensed consolidated financial statements.



In January 2017, the FASB issued an accounting standard update to simplify the subsequent measurement of goodwill by removing the second step of the two-step impairment test, which requires an entity to determine the fair value of assets and liabilities similar to what is required in a purchase price allocation. Under the update, goodwill impairment will be calculated as the amount by which a reporting unit’s carrying value exceeds its fair value. This standard is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of its fiscal year ending June 30, 2021 and requires a prospective approach to adoption. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on its condensed consolidated financial statements.



In January 2017, the FASB issued an accounting standard on clarifying the definition of a business, with the objective of adding guidance to assist entities with evaluating whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions (or disposals) of assets or businesses. The standard is effective for the Company for its fiscal year ending June 30, 2019. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on its consolidated financial statements. 





In May 2017, the FASB issued an accounting standard update regarding stock compensation that provides guidance about which changes to the terms and conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting in order to reduce diversity in practice and reduce complexity. The update is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of the Company’s fiscal year ending June 30, 2019 and should be applied prospectively with early adoption permitted as of the beginning of an interim or annual reporting period. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on its consolidated financial statements. 



In August 2017, the FASB issued an accounting standard update to hedge accounting to better align the Company’s risk management activities by refining financial and non-financial hedging strategy eligibilities. This update also amends the presentation and disclosure requirements to increase transparency to better understand an entity’s risk exposures and how hedging strategies are used to manage those exposures. This standard update is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of its fiscal year ending June 30, 2020, and early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on its condensed consolidated financial statements.



NOTE 2 – FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS



The Company’s financial assets and liabilities are measured and recorded at fair value, except for its debt and certain equity investments in privately-held companies. These equity investments are generally accounted for under the cost method of accounting and are periodically assessed for other-than-temporary impairment when an event or circumstance indicates that an other-than-temporary decline in value may have occurred. The Company’s non-financial assets, such as goodwill, intangible assets, and land, property and equipment, are recorded at cost and are assessed for impairment when an event or circumstance indicates that an other-than-temporary decline in value may have occurred.







Level 1 Valuations based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the entity has the ability to access.



Level 2 Valuations based on quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.



Level 3 Valuations based on inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities.



A financial instrument’s level within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of any input that is significant to the fair value measurement.







The principal market in which the Company executes its foreign currency contracts is the institutional market in an over-the-counter environment with a relatively high level of price transparency. The market participants generally are large financial institutions. The Company’s foreign currency contracts’ valuation inputs are based on quoted prices and quoted pricing intervals from public data sources and do not involve management judgment. These contracts are typically classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.



















There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements during the six months ended December 31, 2017. The Company generally did not have any assets or liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis within Level 3 fair value measurements as of December 31, 2017 or June 30, 2017.



NOTE 3 – FINANCIAL STATEMENT COMPONENTS



Balance Sheet Components







Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)











The amounts reclassified out of accumulated OCI related to the Company’s defined benefit pension plans, which were recognized as a component of net periodic cost for the three and six months ended December 31, 2017 were $0.4 million and $0.8 million, respectively. The amounts reclassified out of accumulated OCI related to the Company’s defined benefit pension plans, which were recognized as a component of net periodic cost for the three and six months ended December 31, 2016 were $0.9 million and $1.3 million, respectively. For additional details, refer to Note 11, “Employee Benefit Plans” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017.



NOTE 4 – MARKETABLE SECURITIES























Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties. Realized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities for the three and six months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 were immaterial. 



NOTE 5 - BUSINESS COMBINATION



On June 9, 2017, the Company completed the acquisition of the outstanding shares of a privately-held company that designs and manufactures optical profilers and inspection systems for advanced semiconductor packaging, LED and data storage industries, for total purchase consideration of $37.1 million, inclusive of post-closing working capital adjustments. The remaining acquisition holdback amount of $4.8 million was paid during the three months ended December 31, 2017. The primary reason for the acquisition is to expand the Company’s portfolio of products. 







Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired. The $14.8 million of goodwill was assigned to the Global Service and Support (“GSS”), and the Other reporting units. None of the goodwill recognized is deductible for income tax purposes. 



NOTE 6 – GOODWILL AND PURCHASED INTANGIBLE ASSETS



Goodwill







Goodwill is net of accumulated impairment losses of $277.6 million, which were recorded prior to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014. 



The Company performed a qualitative assessment of the goodwill by reporting unit as of November 30, 2017 during the three months ended December 31, 2017 as part of its annual goodwill impairment assessment and concluded that it was more likely than not that the fair value of each of the reporting units exceeded its carrying amount. As a result of the Company’s determination following its qualitative assessment, it was not necessary to perform the quantitative goodwill impairment test at this time. In assessing the qualitative factors, the Company considered the impact of key factors, including changes in the industry and competitive environment, market capitalization, stock price, earnings multiples, budgeted-to-actual revenue performance from prior year, gross margin and cash flows from operating activities. 



Based on the Company’s assessment, goodwill in the reporting units was not impaired as of December 31, 2017 or June 30, 2017.



Purchased Intangible Assets







Intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or asset group may not be recoverable.







NOTE 7 – DEBT



















The original discount on the Senior Notes amounted to $4.0 million and is being amortized over the life of the debt. Interest is payable semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 of each year. The debt indenture (the “Indenture”) includes covenants that limit the Company’s ability to grant liens on its facilities and enter into sale and leaseback transactions, subject to certain allowances under which certain sale and leaseback transactions are not restricted. 





In November 2017, the Company repaid $250.0 million of Senior Notes at maturity. Based on the trading prices of the Senior Notes on the applicable dates, the fair value of the Senior Notes as of December 31, 2017 and June 30, 2017 was approximately $2.41 billion and $2.67 billion, respectively. While the Senior Notes are recorded at cost, the fair value of the long-term debt was determined based on quoted prices in markets that are not active; accordingly, the long-term debt is categorized as Level 2 for purposes of the fair value measurement hierarchy.



As of December 31, 2017, the Company was in compliance with all of its covenants under the Indenture associated with the Senior Notes. 





In November 2014, the Company entered into $750.0 million of five-year senior unsecured prepayable term loans and a $500.0 million unfunded revolving credit facility (collectively, the “Credit Facility”). 



In November 2017, the Company entered into a Credit Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) providing for a $750.0 million five-year unsecured revolving credit facility (the “Revolving Credit Facility”), which replaced its prior Credit Facility. Subject to the terms of the Credit Agreement, the Revolving Credit Facility may be increased in an amount up to $250.0 million in the aggregate. As of December 31, 2017 after giving effect to the borrowings made on the closing date, the Company had outstanding $250.0 million aggregate principal amount of borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility. The proceeds from the borrowings on the closing date, together with the cash on hand was used to pay in full the remaining term loan balance under the Credit Facility.



The Company may borrow, repay and reborrow funds under the Revolving Credit Facility until its maturity on November 30, 2022 (the “Maturity Date”), at which time such Revolving Credit Facility will terminate, and all outstanding loans under such facility, together with all accrued and unpaid interest, must be repaid. The Company may prepay the Revolving Credit Facility at any time without a prepayment penalty.





The Revolving Credit Facility requires the Company to maintain an interest expense coverage ratio as described in the Credit Agreement, on a quarterly basis, covering the trailing four consecutive fiscal quarters of no less than 3.50 to 1.00. In addition, the Company is required to maintain the maximum leverage ratio as described in the Credit Agreement, on a quarterly basis of 3.00 to 1.00, covering the trailing four consecutive fiscal quarters for each fiscal quarter, which can be increased to 4.00 to 1.00 for a period of time in connection with a material acquisition or a series of material acquisitions.



The Company was in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Agreement as of December 31, 2017. 



NOTE 8 – EQUITY AND LONG-TERM INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLANS



Equity Incentive Program 







The 2004 Plan provides for the grant of options to purchase shares of the Company’s common stock, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock units, performance shares, performance units and deferred stock units to the Company’s employees, consultants and members of its Board of Directors. As of December 31, 2017, 2.5 million shares were available for issuance under the 2004 Plan.





In addition, the plan administrator has the ability to grant “dividend equivalent” rights in connection with awards of restricted stock units, performance shares, performance units and deferred stock units before they are fully vested. The plan administrator, at its discretion, may grant a right to receive dividends on the aforementioned awards which may be settled in cash or Company stock at the discretion of the plan administrator subject to meeting the vesting requirement of the underlying awards.



Outside Director Plan



The Outside Director Plan only permits the issuance of stock options to the non-employee members of the Board of Directors. As of December 31, 2017, 1.7 million shares were available for grant under the Outside Director Plan.



Equity Incentive Plans - General Information











The fair value of stock-based awards is measured at the grant date and is recognized as an expense over the employee’s requisite service period. For restricted stock units granted without “dividend equivalent” rights, fair value is calculated using the closing price of the Company’s common stock on the grant date, adjusted to exclude the present value of dividends which are not accrued on those restricted stock units. The fair value for restricted stock units granted with “dividend equivalent” rights is determined using the closing price of the Company’s common stock on the grant date. As of December 31, 2017, the Company accrued $7.6 million of dividends payable, which included both a special cash dividend and regular quarterly cash dividends for the unvested restricted stock units outstanding as of the dividend record date. The fair value for purchase rights under the Company’s Employee Stock Purchase Plan is determined using a Black-Scholes valuation model.











Restricted Stock Units









The restricted stock units granted by the Company generally vest (a) with respect to awards with only service-based vesting criteria, in three or four equal installments and (b) with respect to awards with both performance-based and service-based vesting criteria, in two equal installments on the third and fourth anniversaries of the grant date, in each case subject to the recipient remaining employed by the Company as of the applicable vesting date. The restricted stock units granted to the independent members of the board of directors vest annually. 







As of December 31, 2017, the unrecognized stock-based compensation expense balance related to restricted stock units was $104.8 million, excluding the impact of estimated forfeitures, and will be recognized over a weighted-average remaining contractual term and an estimated weighted-average amortization period of 1.6 years. The intrinsic value of outstanding restricted stock units as of December 31, 2017 was $196.0 million.



Cash-Based Long-Term Incentive Compensation



The Company has adopted a cash-based long-term incentive (“Cash LTI”) program for many of its employees as part of the Company’s employee compensation program. During the six months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, the Company approved Cash LTI awards of $4.0 million and $50.3 million, respectively under the Company’s Cash Long-Term Incentive Plan (“Cash LTI Plan”). The Company changed the timing of its annual grants for its employees resulting in the Cash LTI awards being lower during the six months ended December 31, 2017 compared to the six months ended December 31, 2016. Cash LTI awards issued to employees under the Cash LTI Plan will vest in three or four equal installments, with one-third or one-fourth of the aggregate amount of the Cash LTI award vesting on each anniversary of the grant date over a three or four-year period. In order to receive payments under a Cash LTI award, participants must remain employed by the Company as of the applicable award vesting date. Executives and non-employee Board members are not participating in this program. During the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, the Company recognized $11.5 million and $11.2 million, respectively, in compensation expense under the Cash LTI Plan. During the six months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, the Company recognized $26.3 million and $23.4 million, respectively, in compensation expense under the Cash LTI Plan. As of December 31, 2017, the unrecognized compensation balance (excluding the impact of estimated forfeitures) related to the Cash LTI Plan was $102.4 million.



Employee Stock Purchase Plan



KLA-Tencor’s Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”) provides that eligible employees may contribute up to 10% of their eligible earnings toward the semi-annual purchase of KLA-Tencor’s common stock. Effective January 2, 2018, eligible employees may contribute up to 15% of their eligible earnings. The ESPP is qualified under Section 423 of the Internal Revenue Code. The employee’s purchase price is derived from a formula based on the closing price of the common stock on the first day of the offering period versus the closing price on the date of purchase (or, if not a trading day, on the immediately preceding trading day).



The offering period (or length of the look-back period) under the ESPP has a duration of six months, and the purchase price with respect to each offering period beginning on or after such date is, until otherwise amended, equal to 85% of the lesser of (i) the fair market value of the Company’s common stock at the commencement of the applicable six-month offering period or (ii) the fair market value of the Company’s common stock on the purchase date. The Company estimates the fair value of purchase rights under the ESPP using a Black-Scholes valuation model. 











The ESPP shares are replenished annually on the first day of each fiscal year by virtue of an evergreen provision. The provision allows for share replenishment equal to the lesser of 2.0 million shares or the number of shares which KLA-Tencor estimates will be required to be issued under the ESPP during the forthcoming fiscal year. As of December 31, 2017, a total of 2.4 million shares were reserved and available for issuance under the ESPP.



Quarterly cash dividends



On November 1, 2017, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.59 per share on the outstanding shares of the Company’s common stock, which was paid on December 1, 2017 to the stockholders of record as of the close of business on November 15, 2017. The total amount of regular quarterly cash dividends and dividend equivalents paid by the Company during the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was $92.6 million and $84.5 million, respectively. The total amount of regular quarterly cash dividends and dividend equivalents paid by the Company during the six months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was $186.7 million and $166.1 million, respectively. The amount of accrued dividends payable for regular quarterly cash dividends on unvested restricted stock units with dividend equivalent rights as of December 31, 2017 and June 30, 2017 was $4.8 million and $4.8 million, respectively. These amounts will be paid upon vesting of the underlying restricted stock units.



Special cash dividend



On November 19, 2014, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a special cash dividend of $16.50 per share on our outstanding common stock, which was paid on December 9, 2014 to the stockholders of record as of the close of business on December 1, 2014. The declaration and payment of the special cash dividend was part of the Company’s leveraged recapitalization transaction under which the special cash dividend was financed through a combination of existing cash and proceeds from the debt financing disclosed in Note 7, “Debt” that was completed during the three months ended December 31, 2014. As of the declaration date, the total amount of the special cash dividend accrued by the Company was approximately $2.76 billion, substantially all of which was paid out during the three months ended December 31, 2014, except for the aggregate special cash dividend of $43.0 million that was accrued for the unvested restricted stock units. As of December 31, 2017 and June 30, 2017, the Company had a total of $2.8 million and $9.0 million, respectively, of accrued dividends payable for the special cash dividend with respect to outstanding unvested restricted stock units, which will be paid when such underlying unvested restricted stock units vest. During the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, the total special cash dividends paid with respect to vested restricted stock units were immaterial. During the six months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, the total special cash dividends paid with respect to vested restricted stock units were $6.2 million and $7.7 million, respectively. Other than the special cash dividend declared during the three months ended December 31, 2014, the Company historically has not declared any special cash dividend. 



NOTE 9 – STOCK REPURCHASE PROGRAM 



The Company’s Board of Directors has authorized a program for the Company to repurchase shares of the Company’s common stock. The intent of this program is to offset the dilution from KLA-Tencor’s equity incentive plans and employee stock purchase plan, as well as to return excess cash to the Company’s stockholders. Subject to market conditions, applicable legal requirements and other factors, the repurchases were made in the open market in compliance with applicable securities laws, including the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules promulgated thereunder, such as Rule 10b-18 and Rule 10b5-1. As of December 31, 2017, an aggregate of approximately 4.9 million shares were available for repurchase under the Company’s repurchase program. 







As of December 31, 2017, the Company had repurchased 12 thousand shares for $1.3 million, which repurchases had not settled prior to December 31, 2017. The amount was recorded as a component of other current liabilities for the period presented.



NOTE 10 – NET INCOME (LOSS) PER SHARE



Basic net income (loss) per share is calculated by dividing net income (loss) available to common stockholders by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net income (loss) per share is calculated by using the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period, increased to include the number of additional shares of common stock that would have been outstanding if the shares of common stock underlying the Company’s outstanding dilutive restricted stock units and stock options had been issued. The dilutive effect of outstanding restricted stock units and options is reflected in diluted net income per share by application of the treasury stock method. The dilutive securities are excluded from the computation of diluted net loss per share when a net loss is recorded for the period as their effect would be anti-dilutive.











NOTE 11 – INCOME TAXES







The Company’s effective tax rate during the three and six months ended December 31, 2017 was impacted by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“the Act”), which was enacted into law on December 22, 2017. Income tax effects resulting from changes in tax laws are accounted for by the Company in accordance with the authoritative guidance, which requires that these tax effects be recognized in the period in which the law is enacted and the effects are recorded as a component of provision for income taxes from continuing operations. As a result, the Company made an additional provision for income tax resulting from the enactment of the Act during the three and six months ended December 31, 2017.



The Act includes significant changes to the U.S. corporate income tax system which reduces the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35.0% to 21.0% as of January 1, 2018; shifts to a modified territorial tax regime which requires companies to pay a transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred; and creates new taxes on certain foreign-sourced earnings. The decrease in the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35.0% to 21.0% results in a blended statutory tax rate of 28.1% for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2018. The new taxes for certain foreign-sourced earnings under the Act are effective for the Company after the fiscal year ending June 30, 2018. 









•The Company recorded a provisional tax amount of $101.1 million to re-measure certain deferred tax assets and liabilities as a result of the enactment of the Act. The Company is still analyzing certain aspects of the Act and refining the estimate of the expected reversal of its deferred tax balances. This can potentially affect the measurement of these balances or potentially give rise to new deferred tax amounts.



The Act also includes provisions for Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (“GILTI”) wherein taxes on foreign income are imposed in excess of a deemed return on tangible assets of foreign corporations. This income will effectively be taxed at a 10.5% tax rate in general. As a result, the Company’s deferred tax assets and liabilities are being evaluated if the deferred tax assets and liabilities should be recognized for the basis differences expected to reverse as a result of GILTI provisions that are effective for the Company after the fiscal year ending June 30, 2018, or should the tax on GILTI provisions be recognized in the period the Act was signed into law. Because of the complexity of the new provisions, the Company is continuing to evaluate on how the provisions will be accounted for under the U.S. generally accepted accounting principles wherein companies are allowed to make an accounting policy election of either (i) account for GILTI as a component of tax expense in the period in which the Company is subject to the rules (the “period cost method”), or (ii) account for GILTI in the Company’s measurement of deferred taxes (the “deferred method”). Currently, the Company has not elected a method and will only do so after its completion of the analysis of the GILTI provisions and its election method will depend, in part, on analyzing its global income to determine whether the Company expects to have future U.S. inclusions in its taxable income related to GILTI and, if so, the impact that is expected.



In the normal course of business, the Company is subject to examination by tax authorities throughout the world. The Company is subject to United States federal income tax examination for all years beginning from the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014. The Company is subject to state income tax examinations for all years beginning from the fiscal year ended June 30, 2013. The Company is also subject to examinations in other major foreign jurisdictions, including Singapore, for all years beginning from the fiscal year ended June 30, 2013. 



 It is possible that certain examinations may be concluded in the next twelve months. The Company believes that it may recognize up to $12.6 million of its existing unrecognized tax benefits within the next twelve months as a result of the lapse of statutes of limitations and the resolution of examinations with various tax authorities.



NOTE 12 – LITIGATION AND OTHER LEGAL MATTERS



The Company is named from time to time as a party to lawsuits and other types of legal proceedings and claims in the normal course of its business. Actions filed against the Company include commercial, intellectual property, customer, and labor and employment related claims, including complaints of alleged wrongful termination and potential class action lawsuits regarding alleged violations of federal and state wage and hour and other laws. In general, legal proceedings and claims, regardless of their merit, and associated internal investigations (especially those relating to intellectual property or confidential information disputes) are often expensive to prosecute, defend or conduct and may divert management’s attention and other company resources. Moreover, the results of legal proceedings are difficult to predict, and the costs incurred in litigation can be substantial, regardless of outcome. The Company believes the amounts provided in its condensed consolidated financial statements are adequate in light of the probable and estimated liabilities. However, because such matters are subject to many uncertainties, the ultimate outcomes are not predictable, and there can be no assurances that the actual amounts required to satisfy alleged liabilities from the matters described above will not exceed the amounts reflected in the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements or will not have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.



NOTE 13 – COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES



Factoring. KLA-Tencor has agreements (referred to as “factoring agreements”) with financial institutions to sell certain of its trade receivables and promissory notes from customers without recourse. The Company does not believe it is at risk for any material losses as a result of these agreements. In addition, the Company periodically sells certain letters of credit (“LCs”), without recourse, received from customers in payment for goods and services.







Factoring and LC fees for the sale of certain trade receivables were recorded in other expense (income), net and were not material for the periods presented. 



Facilities. KLA-Tencor leases certain of its facilities under arrangements that are accounted for as operating leases. Rent expense was $2.5 million and $2.4 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively and was $5.0 million and $4.8 million for the six months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.







Purchase Commitments. KLA-Tencor maintains commitments to purchase inventory from its suppliers as well as goods and services in the ordinary course of business. The Company’s liability under these purchase commitments is generally restricted to a forecasted time-horizon as mutually agreed upon between the parties. This forecasted time-horizon can vary among different suppliers. The Company’s estimate of its significant purchase commitments is approximately $481.0 million as of December 31, 2017 which are primarily due within the next 12 months. Actual expenditures will vary based upon the volume of the transactions and length of contractual service provided. In addition, the amounts paid under these arrangements may be less in the event that the arrangements are renegotiated or canceled. Certain agreements provide for potential cancellation penalties.



Cash Long-Term Incentive Plan. As of December 31, 2017, the Company had committed $120.2 million for future payment obligations under its Cash LTI Plan. The calculation of compensation expense related to the Cash LTI Plan includes estimated forfeiture rate assumptions. Cash LTI awards issued to employees under the Cash LTI Plan vest in three or four equal installments, with one-third or one-fourth of the aggregate amount of the Cash LTI award vesting on each yearly anniversary of the grant date over a three or four-year period. In order to receive payments under a Cash LTI award, participants must remain employed by the Company as of the applicable award vesting date.









The Company maintains guarantee arrangements available through various financial institutions for up to $21.8 million, of which $16.0 million had been issued as of December 31, 2017, primarily to fund guarantees to customs authorities for value-added tax (“VAT”) and other operating requirements of the Company’s subsidiaries in Europe and Asia.



KLA-Tencor is a party to a variety of agreements pursuant to which it may be obligated to indemnify the other party with respect to certain matters. Typically, these obligations arise in connection with contracts and license agreements or the sale of assets, under which the Company customarily agrees to hold the other party harmless against losses arising from, or provides customers with other remedies to protect against, bodily injury or damage to personal property caused by the Company’s products, non-compliance with the Company’s product performance specifications, infringement by the Company’s products of third-party intellectual property rights and a breach of warranties, representations and covenants related to matters such as title to assets sold, validity of certain intellectual property rights, non-infringement of third-party rights, and certain income tax-related matters. In each of these circumstances, payment by the Company is typically subject to the other party making a claim to and cooperating with the Company pursuant to the procedures specified in the particular contract. 





Subject to certain limitations, the Company is obligated to indemnify its current and former directors, officers and employees with respect to certain litigation matters and investigations that arise in connection with their service to the Company. These obligations arise under the terms of the Company’s certificate of incorporation, its bylaws, applicable contracts, and Delaware and California law. The obligation to indemnify generally means that the Company is required to pay or reimburse the individuals’ reasonable legal expenses and possibly damages and other liabilities incurred in connection with these matters.



In addition, the Company may in limited circumstances enter into agreements that contain customer-specific commitments on pricing, tool reliability, spare parts stocking levels, response time and other commitments. Furthermore, the Company may give these customers limited audit or inspection rights to enable them to confirm that the Company is complying with these commitments. If a customer elects to exercise its audit or inspection rights, the Company may be required to expend significant resources to support the audit or inspection, as well as to defend or settle any dispute with a customer that could potentially arise out of such audit or inspection. To date, the Company has made no significant accruals in its condensed consolidated financial statements for this contingency. While the Company has not in the past incurred significant expenses for resolving disputes regarding these types of commitments, the Company cannot make any assurance that it will not incur any such liabilities in the future.



It is not possible to predict the maximum potential amount of future payments under these or similar agreements due to the conditional nature of the Company’s obligations and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Historically, payments made by the Company under these agreements have not had a material effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.



NOTE 14 – DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES



The authoritative guidance requires companies to recognize all derivative instruments and hedging activities, including foreign currency exchange contracts, as either assets or liabilities at fair value on the balance sheet. Changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge treatment, as well as the ineffective portion of any hedges, are recognized in other expense (income), net in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. In accordance with the guidance, the Company designates foreign currency forward exchange and option contracts as cash flow hedges of certain forecasted foreign currency denominated sales and purchase transactions.



KLA-Tencor’s foreign subsidiaries operate and sell KLA-Tencor’s products in various global markets. As a result, KLA-Tencor is exposed to risks relating to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. KLA-Tencor utilizes foreign currency forward exchange contracts and option contracts to hedge against future movements in foreign exchange rates that affect certain existing and forecasted foreign currency denominated sales and purchase transactions, such as the Japanese yen, the euro, the New Taiwan dollar and the Israeli new shekel. The Company routinely hedges its exposures to certain foreign currencies with various financial institutions in an effort to minimize the impact of certain currency exchange rate fluctuations. These currency forward exchange contracts and options, designated as cash flow hedges, generally have maturities of less than 18 months. Cash flow hedges are evaluated for effectiveness monthly, based on changes in total fair value of the derivatives. If a financial counterparty to any of the Company’s hedging arrangements experiences financial difficulties or is otherwise unable to honor the terms of the foreign currency hedge, the Company may experience material losses.



For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gains or losses on the derivative is reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (“OCI”) and reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. Changes in the fair value of currency forward exchange and option contracts due to changes in time value are excluded from the assessment of effectiveness. Gains and losses on the derivative representing either hedge ineffectiveness or hedge components excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized in current earnings.



For derivative instruments that are not designated as accounting hedges, gains and losses are recognized in other expense (income), net. The Company uses foreign currency forward contracts to hedge certain foreign currency denominated assets or liabilities. The gains and losses on these derivatives are largely offset by the changes in the fair value of the assets or liabilities being hedged.



In October 2014, in anticipation of the issuance of the Senior Notes, the Company entered into a series of forward contracts (“Rate Lock Agreements”) to lock the benchmark rate on a portion of the Senior Notes. The objective of the Rate Lock Agreements was to hedge the risk associated with the variability in interest rates due to the changes in the benchmark rate leading up to the closing of the intended financing, on the notional amount being hedged. The Rate Lock Agreements had a notional amount of $1.00 billion in aggregate which matured in the second quarter of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015. The Rate Lock Agreements were terminated on the date of pricing of the $1.25 billion of 4.650% Senior Notes due in 2024 and the Company recorded the fair value of $7.5 million as a gain within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) as of December 31, 2014. The Company recognized $0.2 million for each of the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 and $0.4 million for each of the six months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 for the amortization of the gain recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), which amount reduced the interest expense. As of December 31, 2017, the unamortized portion of the fair value of the forward contracts for the rate lock agreements was $5.2 million. 





















Offsetting of Derivative Assets and Liabilities









NOTE 15 – RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS







The Company’s receivable balances from these parties were $0.5 million as of December 31, 2017 and immaterial as of June 30, 2017. The Company’s payable balance from these parties was immaterial at December 31, 2017 and June 30, 2017. Management believes that such transactions are at arm’s length and on similar terms as would have been obtained from unaffiliated third parties.



NOTE 16 – SEGMENT REPORTING AND GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION



KLA-Tencor reports one reportable segment in accordance with the provisions of the authoritative guidance for segment reporting. Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise about which separate financial information is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. KLA-Tencor’s chief operating decision maker is its Chief Executive Officer. The Company is engaged primarily in designing, manufacturing, and marketing process control and yield management solutions for the semiconductor and related nanoelectronics industries. 



All operating segments have been aggregated due to their inter-dependencies, commonality of long-term economic characteristics, products and services, the production processes, class of customer and distribution processes. The Company’s service products are an extension of the system product portfolio and provide customers with spare parts and fab management services (including system preventive maintenance and optimization services) to improve yield, increase production uptime and throughput, and lower the cost of ownership. Since the Company operates in one reportable segment, all financial segment information required by the authoritative guidance can be found in the condensed consolidated financial statements.



The Company’s significant operations outside the United States include manufacturing facilities in China, Germany, Israel and Singapore and sales, marketing and service offices in Japan, the rest of the Asia Pacific region and Europe. For geographical revenue reporting, revenues are attributed to the geographic location in which the customer is located. Long-lived assets consist of land, property and equipment, net and are attributed to the geographic region in which they are located.















In the three months ended December 31, 2017, one customer accounted for approximately 17% of total revenues. In the three months ended December 31, 2016, two customers accounted for approximately 31% and 13% of total revenues. In the six months ended December 31, 2017, one customer accounted for approximately 22% of total revenues. In the six months ended December 31, 2016, two customers accounted for approximately 30% and 11% of total revenues. Two customers on an individual basis accounted for greater than 10% of net accounts receivables as of December 31, 2017 and June 30, 2017, respectively. 







ITEM 1.LEGAL PROCEEDINGS



The information set forth above under Note 12, “Litigation and Other Legal Matters,” to the condensed consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of Part 1 is incorporated herein by reference.



ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS 



A description of factors that could materially affect our business, financial condition or operating results is provided below.



Risks Associated with Our Industry 



Ongoing changes in the technology industry, as well as the semiconductor industry in particular, could expose our business to significant risks.



The semiconductor equipment industry and other industries that we serve are constantly developing and changing over time. Many of the risks associated with operating in these industries are comparable to the risks faced by all technology companies, such as the uncertainty of future growth rates in the industries that we serve, pricing trends in the end-markets for consumer electronics and other products (which place a growing emphasis on our customers’ cost of ownership), changes in our customers’ capital spending patterns and, in general, an environment of constant change and development, including decreasing product and component dimensions; use of new materials; and increasingly complex device structures, applications and process steps. If we fail to appropriately adjust our cost structure and operations to adapt to any of these trends, or, with respect to technological advances, if we do not timely develop new technologies and products that successfully anticipate and address these changes, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.





•the potential for reversal of the long-term historical trend of declining cost per transistor with each new generation of technological advancement within the semiconductor industry, and the adverse impact that such reversal may have upon our business;



•the increasing cost of building and operating fabrication facilities and the impact of such increases on our customers’ investment decisions; 



•differing market growth rates and capital requirements for different applications, such as memory, logic and foundry; 



•lower level of process control adoption by our memory customers compared to our foundry and logic customers;



•our customers’ reuse of existing and installed products, which may decrease their need to purchase new products or solutions at more advanced technology nodes;



•the emergence of disruptive technologies that change the prevailing semiconductor manufacturing processes (or the economics associated with semiconductor manufacturing) and, as a result, also impact the inspection and metrology requirements associated with such processes; 



•the higher design costs for the most advanced integrated circuits, which could economically constrain leading-edge manufacturing technology customers to focus their resources on only the large, technologically advanced products and applications;



•the possible introduction of integrated products by our larger competitors that offer inspection and metrology functionality in addition to managing other semiconductor manufacturing processes;



•changes in semiconductor manufacturing processes that are extremely costly for our customers to implement and, accordingly, our customers could reduce their available budgets for process control equipment by reducing inspection and metrology sampling rates for certain technologies;



•the bifurcation of the semiconductor manufacturing industry into (a) leading edge manufacturers driving continued research and development into next-generation products and technologies and (b) other manufacturers that are content with existing (including previous generation) products and technologies;



•the ever escalating cost of next-generation product development, which may result in joint development programs between us and our customers or government entities to help fund such programs that could restrict our control of, ownership of and profitability from the products and technologies developed through those programs; and



•the entry by some semiconductor manufacturers into collaboration or sharing arrangements for capacity, cost or risk with other manufacturers, as well as increased outsourcing of their manufacturing activities, and greater focus only on specific markets or applications, whether in response to adverse market conditions or other market pressures. 



Any of the changes described above may negatively affect our customers’ rate of investment in the capital equipment that we produce, which could result in downward pressure on our prices, customer orders, revenues and gross margins. If we do not successfully manage the risks resulting from any of these or other potential changes in our industries, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely impacted.



We are exposed to risks associated with a highly concentrated customer base.





•The mix and type of customers, and sales to any single customer, may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year, which exposes our business and operating results to increased volatility tied to individual customers.



•New orders from our foundry customers in the past several years have constituted a significant portion of our total orders. This concentration increases the impact that future business or technology changes within the foundry industry may have on our business, financial condition and operating results.



•In a highly concentrated business environment, if a particular customer does not place an order, or if they delay or cancel orders, we may not be able to replace the business. Furthermore, because our products are configured to each customer’s specifications, any changes, delays or cancellations of orders may result in significant, non-recoverable costs. 



•As a result of this consolidation, the customers that survive the consolidation represent a greater portion of our sales and, consequently, have greater commercial negotiating leverage. Many of our large customers have more aggressive policies regarding engaging alternative, second-source suppliers for the products we offer and, in addition, may seek and, on occasion, receive pricing, payment, intellectual property-related or other commercial terms that may have an adverse impact on our business. Any of these changes could negatively impact our prices, customer orders, revenues and gross margins.



•Certain customers have undergone significant ownership changes, created alliances with other companies, experienced management changes or have outsourced manufacturing activities, any of which may result in additional complexities in managing customer relationships and transactions. Any future change in ownership or management of our existing customers may result in similar challenges, including the possibility of the successor entity or new management deciding to select a competitor’s products.



•The highly concentrated business environment also increases our exposure to risks related to the financial condition of each of our customers. For example, as a result of the challenging economic environment during fiscal year 2009, we were (and in some cases continue to be) exposed to additional risks related to the continued financial viability of certain of our customers. To the extent our customers experience liquidity issues in the future, we may be required to incur additional bad debt expense with respect to receivables owed to us by those customers. In addition, customers with liquidity issues may be forced to reduce purchases of our equipment, delay deliveries of our products, discontinue operations or may be acquired by one of our customers, and in either case such event would have the effect of further consolidating our customer base. 



•Semiconductor manufacturers generally must commit significant resources to qualify, install and integrate process control and yield management equipment into a semiconductor production line. We believe that once a semiconductor manufacturer selects a particular supplier’s process control and yield management equipment, the manufacturer generally relies upon that equipment for that specific production line application for an extended period of time. Accordingly, we expect it to be more difficult to sell our products to a given customer for that specific production line application and other similar production line applications if that customer initially selects a competitor’s equipment. Similarly, we expect it to be challenging for a competitor to sell its products to a given customer for a specific production line application if that customer initially selects our equipment.



•Prices differ among the products we offer for different applications due to differences in features offered or manufacturing costs. If there is a shift in demand by our customers from our higher-priced to lower-priced products, our gross margin and revenue would decrease. In addition, when products are initially introduced, they tend to have higher costs because of initial development costs and lower production volumes relative to the previous product generation, which can impact gross margin.



Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.



The semiconductor equipment industry has been cyclical. The purchasing decisions of our customers are highly dependent on the economies of both the local markets in which they are located and the semiconductor industry worldwide. If we fail to respond to industry cycles, our business could be seriously harmed.



The timing, length and severity of the up-and-down cycles in the semiconductor equipment industry are difficult to predict. The historically cyclical nature of the primary industry in which we operate is largely a function of our customers’ capital spending patterns and need for expanded manufacturing capacity, which in turn are affected by factors such as capacity utilization, consumer demand for products, inventory levels and our customers’ access to capital. Cyclicality affects our ability to accurately predict future revenue and, in some cases, future expense levels. During down cycles in our industry, the financial results of our customers may be negatively impacted, which could result not only in a decrease in, or cancellation or delay of, orders (which are generally subject to cancellation or delay by the customer with limited or no penalty) but also a weakening of their financial condition that could impair their ability to pay for our products or our ability to recognize revenue from certain customers. Our ability to recognize revenue from a particular customer may also be negatively impacted by the customer’s funding status, which could be weakened not only by adverse business conditions or inaccessibility to capital markets for any number of macroeconomic or company-specific reasons, but also by funding limitations imposed by the customer’s unique organizational structure. Any of these factors could negatively impact our business, operating results and financial condition. 



When cyclical fluctuations result in lower than expected revenue levels, operating results may be adversely affected and cost reduction measures may be necessary for us to remain competitive and financially sound. During periods of declining revenues, we must be in a position to adjust our cost and expense structure to prevailing market conditions and to continue to motivate and retain our key employees. If we fail to respond, or if our attempts to respond fail to accomplish our intended results, then our business could be seriously harmed. Furthermore, any workforce reductions and cost reduction actions that we adopt in response to down cycles may result in additional restructuring charges, disruptions in our operations and loss of key personnel. In addition, during periods of rapid growth, we must be able to increase manufacturing capacity and personnel to meet customer demand. We can provide no assurance that these objectives can be met in a timely manner in response to industry cycles. Each of these factors could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition.



In addition, our management typically provides quarterly forecasts for certain financial metrics, which, when made, are based on business and operational forecasts that are believed to be reasonable at the time. However, largely due to the historical cyclicality of our business and the industries in which we operate, and the fact that business conditions in our industries can change very rapidly as part of these cycles, our actual results may vary (and have varied in the past) from forecasted results. These variations can occur for any number of reasons, including, but not limited to, unexpected changes in the volume or timing of customer orders, product shipments or product acceptance; an inability to adjust our operations rapidly enough to adapt to changing business conditions; or a different than anticipated effective tax rate. The impact on our business of delays or cancellations of customer orders may be exacerbated by the short lead times that our customers expect between order placement and product shipment. This is because order delays and cancellations may lead not only to lower revenues, but also, due to the advance work we must do in anticipation of receiving a product order to meet the expected lead times, to significant inventory write-offs and manufacturing inefficiencies that decrease our gross margin. Any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our financial results for a particular quarter and could cause those results to differ materially from financial forecasts we have previously provided. We provide these forecasts with the intent of giving investors and analysts a better understanding of management’s expectations for the future, but those reviewing such forecasts must recognize that such forecasts are comprised of, and are themselves, forward-looking statements subject to the risks and uncertainties described in this Item 1A and elsewhere in this report and in our other public filings and public statements. If our operating or financial results for a particular period differ from our forecasts or the expectations of investment analysts, or if we revise our forecasts, the market price of our common stock could decline.



Risks Related to Our Business Model and Capital Structure



If we do not develop and introduce new products and technologies in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, our business could be seriously harmed.



Success in the semiconductor equipment industry depends, in part, on continual improvement of existing technologies and rapid innovation of new solutions. The primary driver of technology advancement in the semiconductor industry has been to shrink the lithography that prints the circuit design on semiconductor chips. That driver appears to be slowing, which may cause semiconductor manufacturers to delay investments in equipment, investigate more complex device architectures, use new materials and develop innovative fabrication processes. These and other evolving customer plans and needs require us to respond with continued development programs and cut back or discontinue older programs, which may no longer have industry-wide support. Technical innovations are inherently complex and require long development cycles and appropriate staffing of highly qualified employees. Our competitive advantage and future business success depend on our ability to accurately predict evolving industry standards, develop and introduce new products and solutions that successfully address changing customer needs, win market acceptance of these new products and solutions, and manufacture these new products in a timely and cost-effective manner. Our failure to accurately predict evolving industry standards and develop as well as offer competitive technology solutions in a timely manner with cost-effective products could result in loss of market share, unanticipated costs, and inventory obsolescence, which would adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition.



We must continue to make significant investments in research and development in order to enhance the performance, features and functionality of our products, to keep pace with competitive products and to satisfy customer demands. Substantial research and development costs typically are incurred before we confirm the technical feasibility and commercial viability of a new product, and not all development activities result in commercially viable products. There can be no assurance that revenues from future products or product enhancements will be sufficient to recover the development costs associated with such products or enhancements. In addition, we cannot be sure that these products or enhancements will receive market acceptance or that we will be able to sell these products at prices that are favorable to us. Our business will be seriously harmed if we are unable to sell our products at favorable prices or if the market in which we operate does not accept our products.



In addition, the complexity of our products exposes us to other risks. We regularly recognize revenue from a sale upon shipment of the applicable product to the customer (even before receiving the customer’s formal acceptance of that product) in certain situations, including sales of products for which installation is considered perfunctory, transactions in which the product is sold to an independent distributor and we have no installation obligations, and sales of products where we have previously delivered the same product to the same customer location and that prior delivery has been accepted. However, our products are very technologically complex and rely on the interconnection of numerous subcomponents (all of which must perform to their respective specifications), so it is conceivable that a product for which we recognize revenue upon shipment may ultimately fail to meet the overall product’s required specifications. In such a situation, the customer may be entitled to certain remedies, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results for various periods and, as a result, our stock price.



We derive a substantial percentage of our revenues from sales of inspection products. As a result, any delay or reduction of sales of these products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The continued customer demand for these products and the development, introduction and market acceptance of new products and technologies are critical to our future success.



Our success is dependent in part on our technology and other proprietary rights. If we are unable to maintain our lead or protect our proprietary technology, we may lose valuable assets.



Our success is dependent in part on our technology and other proprietary rights. We own various United States and international patents and have additional pending patent applications relating to some of our products and technologies. The process of seeking patent protection is lengthy and expensive, and we cannot be certain that pending or future applications will actually result in issued patents or that issued patents will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or commercial advantage to us. Other companies and individuals, including our larger competitors, may develop technologies and obtain patents relating to our business that are similar or superior to our technology or may design around the patents we own, adversely affecting our business. In addition, we at times engage in collaborative technology development efforts with our customers and suppliers, and these collaborations may constitute a key component of certain of our ongoing technology and product research and development projects. The termination of any such collaboration, or delays caused by disputes or other unanticipated challenges that may arise in connection with any such collaboration, could significantly impair our research and development efforts, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and operations.



We also maintain trademarks on certain of our products and services and claim copyright protection for certain proprietary software and documentation. However, we can give no assurance that our trademarks and copyrights will be upheld or successfully deter infringement by third parties.



While patent, copyright and trademark protection for our intellectual property is important, we believe our future success in highly dynamic markets is most dependent upon the technical competence and creative skills of our personnel. We attempt to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information through confidentiality and other agreements with our customers, suppliers, employees and consultants and through other security measures. We also maintain exclusive and non-exclusive licenses with third parties for strategic technology used in certain products. However, these employees, consultants and third parties may breach these agreements, and we may not have adequate remedies for wrongdoing. In addition, the laws of certain territories in which we develop, manufacture or sell our products may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In any event, the extent to which we can protect our trade secrets through the use of confidentiality agreements is limited, and our success will depend to a significant extent on our ability to innovate ahead of our competitors.



Our future performance depends, in part, upon our ability to continue to compete successfully worldwide.



Our industry includes large manufacturers with substantial resources to support customers worldwide. Some of our competitors are diversified companies with greater financial resources and more extensive research, engineering, manufacturing, marketing, and customer service and support capabilities than we possess. We face competition from companies whose strategy is to provide a broad array of products and services, some of which compete with the products and services that we offer. These competitors may bundle their products in a manner that may discourage customers from purchasing our products, including pricing such competitive tools significantly below our product offerings. In addition, we face competition from smaller emerging semiconductor equipment companies whose strategy is to provide a portion of the products and services that we offer, using innovative technology to sell products into specialized markets. The strength of our competitive positions in many of our existing markets is largely due to our leading technology, which is the result of continuing significant investments in product research and development. However, we may enter new markets, whether through acquisitions or new internal product development, in which competition is based primarily on product pricing, not technological superiority. Further, some new growth markets that emerge may not require leading technologies. Loss of competitive position in any of the markets we serve, or an inability to sell our products on favorable commercial terms in new markets we may enter, could negatively affect our prices, customer orders, revenues, gross margins and market share, any of which would negatively affect our operating results and financial condition.



Our business would be harmed if we do not receive parts sufficient in number and performance to meet our production requirements and product specifications in a timely and cost-effective manner.





If we fail to operate our business in accordance with our business plan, our operating results, business and stock price may be significantly and adversely impacted.



We attempt to operate our business in accordance with a business plan that is established annually, revised frequently (generally quarterly), and reviewed by management even more frequently (at least monthly). Our business plan is developed based on a number of factors, many of which require estimates and assumptions, such as our expectations of the economic environment, future business levels, our customers’ willingness and ability to place orders, lead-times, and future revenue and cash flow. Our budgeted operating expenses, for example, are based in part on our future revenue expectations. However, our ability to achieve our anticipated revenue levels is a function of numerous factors, including the volatile and historically cyclical nature of our primary industry, customer order cancellations, macroeconomic changes, operational matters regarding particular agreements, our ability to manage customer deliveries, the availability of resources for the installation of our products, delays or accelerations by customers in taking deliveries and the acceptance of our products (for products where customer acceptance is required before we can recognize revenue from such sales), our ability to operate our business and sales processes effectively, and a number of the other risk factors set forth in this Item 1A.



Because our expenses are in most cases relatively fixed in the short term, any revenue shortfall below expectations could have an immediate and significant adverse effect on our operating results. Similarly, if we fail to manage our expenses effectively or otherwise fail to maintain rigorous cost controls, we could experience greater than anticipated expenses during an operating period, which would also negatively affect our results of operations. If we fail to operate our business consistent with our business plan, our operating results in any period may be significantly and adversely impacted. Such an outcome could cause customers, suppliers or investors to view us as less stable, or could cause us to fail to meet financial analysts’ revenue or earnings estimates, any of which could have an adverse impact on our stock price.



In addition, our management is constantly striving to balance the requirements and demands of our customers with the availability of resources, the need to manage our operating model and other factors. In furtherance of those efforts, we often must exercise discretion and judgment as to the timing and prioritization of manufacturing, deliveries, installations and payment scheduling. Any such decisions may impact our ability to recognize revenue, including the fiscal period during which such revenue may be recognized, with respect to such products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or stock price.



Our capital structure is highly leveraged.









Borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility bear interest at a floating rate and, therefore, any increase in interest rates would require us to pay additional interest, which may have an adverse effect on the value and liquidity of our debt and the market price of our common stock could decline. The interest rate under our Revolving Credit Facility is also subject to an adjustment in conjunction with our credit rating downgrades or upgrades. Additionally, under our Revolving Credit Facility, we are required to comply with affirmative and negative covenants, which include the maintenance of certain financial ratios, the details of which can be found in Note 7, “Debt,” to our condensed consolidated financial statements. If we fail to comply with these covenants, we will be in default and our borrowings will become immediately due and payable. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient financial resources or we will be able to arrange financing to repay our borrowings at such time. In addition, certain of our domestic subsidiaries are required to guarantee our borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility. In the event that we default on our borrowings, these domestic subsidiaries shall be liable for our borrowings, which could disrupt our operations and result in a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or stock price.



Our leveraged capital structure may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and net income per share. 





•a negative impact on our ability to satisfy our future obligations;



•an increase in the portion of our cash flows that may have to be dedicated to increased interest and principal payments that may not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments, dividends, stock repurchases, general corporate or other purposes; 



•an impairment of our ability to obtain additional financing in the future; and



•obligations to comply with restrictive and financial covenants as noted in the above risk factor and Note 7, “Debt,” to our condensed consolidated financial statements. 



Our ability to satisfy our future expenses as well as our new debt obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors. Furthermore, our future operations may not generate sufficient cash flows to enable us to meet our future expenses and service our new debt obligations, which may impact our ability to manage our capital structure to preserve and maintain our investment grade rating. If our future operations do not generate sufficient cash flows, we may need to access the unfunded portion of our Revolving Credit Facility of $500.0 million or enter into new financing arrangements to obtain necessary funds. If we determine it is necessary to seek additional funding for any reason, we may not be able to obtain such funding or, if funding is available, we may not be able to obtain it on acceptable terms. Any additional borrowing under our revolving credit facility will place further pressure on us to comply with the financial covenants. If we fail to make a payment associated with our debt obligations, we could be in default on such debt, and such a default could cause us to be in default on our other obligations. 



There can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends at all or in any particular amounts.





We are exposed to risks related to our commercial terms and conditions, including our indemnification of third parties, as well as the performance of our products.



Although our standard commercial documentation sets forth the terms and conditions that we intend to apply to commercial transactions with our business partners, counterparties to such transactions may not explicitly agree to our terms and conditions. In situations where we engage in business with a third party without an explicit master agreement regarding the applicable terms and conditions, or where the commercial documentation applicable to the transaction is subject to varying interpretations, we may have disputes with those third parties regarding the applicable terms and conditions of our business relationship with them. Such disputes could lead to a deterioration of our commercial relationship with those parties, costly and time-consuming litigation, or additional concessions or obligations being offered by us to resolve such disputes, or could impact our revenue or cost recognition. Any of these outcomes could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.



In addition, in our commercial agreements, from time to time in the normal course of business we indemnify third parties with whom we enter into contractual relationships, including customers, suppliers and lessors, with respect to certain matters. We have agreed, under certain conditions, to hold these third parties harmless against specified losses, such as those arising from a breach of representations or covenants, other third party claims that our products when used for their intended purposes infringe the intellectual property rights of such other third parties, or other claims made against certain parties. We may be compelled to enter into or accrue for probable settlements of alleged indemnification obligations, or we may be subject to potential liability arising from our customers’ involvements in legal disputes. In addition, notwithstanding the provisions related to limitations on our liability that we seek to include in our business agreements, the counterparties to such agreements may dispute our interpretation or application of such provisions, and a court of law may not interpret or apply such provisions in our favor, any of which could result in an obligation for us to pay material damages to third parties and engage in costly legal proceedings. It is difficult to determine the maximum potential amount of liability under any indemnification obligations, whether or not asserted, due to our limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances that are likely to be involved in any particular claim. Our business, financial condition and results of operations in a reported fiscal period could be materially and adversely affected if we expend significant amounts in defending or settling any purported claims, regardless of their merit or outcomes.



We are also exposed to potential costs associated with unexpected product performance issues. Our products and production processes are extremely complex and thus could contain unexpected product defects, especially when products are first introduced. Unexpected product performance issues could result in significant costs being incurred by us, including increased service or warranty costs, providing product replacements for (or modifications to) defective products, litigation related to defective products, reimbursement for damages caused by our products, product recalls, or product write-offs or disposal costs. These costs could be substantial and could have an adverse impact upon our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, our reputation with our customers could be damaged as a result of such product defects, which could reduce demand for our products and negatively impact our business.



Furthermore, we occasionally enter into volume purchase agreements with our larger customers, and these agreements may provide for certain volume purchase incentives, such as credits toward future purchases. We believe that these arrangements are beneficial to our long-term business, as they are designed to encourage our customers to purchase higher volumes of our products. However, these arrangements could require us to recognize a reduced level of revenue for the products that are initially purchased, to account for the potential future credits or other volume purchase incentives. Our volume purchase agreements require significant estimation for the amounts to be accrued depending upon the estimate of volume of future purchases. As such, we are required to update our estimates of the accruals on a periodic basis. Until the earnings process is complete, out estimates could differ in comparison to actuals. As a result, these volume purchase arrangements, while expected to be beneficial to our business over time, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations in near-term periods, including the revenue we can recognize on product sales and therefore our gross margins.



In addition, we may in limited circumstances enter into agreements that contain customer-specific commitments on pricing, tool reliability, spare parts stocking levels, response time and other commitments. Furthermore, we may give these customers limited audit or inspection rights to enable them to confirm that we are complying with these commitments. If a customer elects to exercise its audit or inspection rights, we may be required to expend significant resources to support the audit or inspection, as well as to defend or settle any dispute with a customer that could potentially arise out of such audit or inspection. To date, we have made no significant accruals in our condensed consolidated financial statements for this contingency. While we have not in the past incurred significant expenses for resolving disputes regarding these types of commitments, we cannot make any assurance that we will not incur any such liabilities in the future. Our business, financial condition and results of operations in a reported fiscal period could be materially and adversely affected if we expend significant amounts in supporting an audit or inspection, or defending or settling any purported claims, regardless of their merit or outcomes.



There are risks associated with our receipt of government funding for research and development.



We are exposed to additional risks related to our receipt of external funding for certain strategic development programs from various governments and government agencies, both domestically and internationally. Governments and government agencies typically have the right to terminate funding programs at any time in their sole discretion, or a project may be terminated by mutual agreement if the parties determine that the project’s goals or milestones are not being achieved, so there is no assurance that these sources of external funding will continue to be available to us in the future. In addition, under the terms of these government grants, the applicable granting agency typically has the right to audit the costs that we incur, directly and indirectly, in connection with such programs. Any such audit could result in modifications to, or even termination of, the applicable government funding program. For example, if an audit were to identify any costs as being improperly allocated to the applicable program, those costs would not be reimbursed, and any such costs that had already been reimbursed would have to be refunded. We do not know the outcome of any future audits. Any adverse finding resulting from any such audit could lead to penalties (financial or otherwise), termination of funding programs, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from receiving future government funding from the applicable government or government agency, any of which could adversely impact our operating results, financial condition and ability to operate our business.



We have recorded significant restructuring, inventory write-off and asset impairment charges in the past and may do so again in the future, which could have a material negative impact on our business.



Historically, we recorded material restructuring charges related to our prior global workforce reductions, large excess inventory write-offs, and material impairment charges related to our goodwill and purchased intangible assets.Workforce changes can also temporarily reduce workforce productivity, which could be disruptive to our business and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, we may not achieve or sustain the expected cost savings or other benefits of our restructuring plans, or do so within the expected time frame. If we again restructure our organization and business processes, implement additional cost reduction actions or discontinue certain business operations, we may take additional, potentially material, restructuring charges related to, among other things, employee terminations or exit costs. We may also be required to write-off additional inventory if our product build plans or usage of service inventory decline. Also, as our lead times from suppliers increase (due to the increasing complexity of the parts and components they provide) and the lead times demanded by our customers decrease (due to the time pressures they face when introducing new products or technology or bringing new facilities into production), we may be compelled to increase our commitments, and therefore our risk exposure, to inventory purchases to meet our customers’ demands in a timely manner, and that inventory may need to be written-off if demand for the underlying product declines for any reason. Such additional write-offs could result in material charges.



In the past, we recorded a material charge related to the impairment of our goodwill and purchased intangible assets. Goodwill represents the excess of costs over the net fair value of net assets acquired in a business combination. Goodwill is not amortized, but is instead tested for impairment at least annually in accordance with authoritative guidance for goodwill. Purchased intangible assets with estimable useful lives are amortized over their respective estimated useful lives based on economic benefit if known or using the straight-line method, and are reviewed for impairment in accordance with authoritative guidance for long-lived assets. The valuation of goodwill and intangible assets requires assumptions and estimates of many critical factors, including revenue and market growth, operating cash flows, market multiples, and discount rates. A substantial decline in our stock price, or any other adverse change in market conditions, particularly if such change has the effect of changing one of the critical assumptions or estimates we previously used to calculate the value of our goodwill or intangible assets (and, as applicable, the amount of any previous impairment charge), could result in a change to the estimation of fair value that could result in an additional impairment charge.



Any such additional material charges, whether related to restructuring or goodwill or purchased intangible asset impairment, may have a material negative impact on our operating results and related financial statements.



We are exposed to risks related to our financial arrangements with respect to receivables factoring and banking arrangements.



We enter into factoring arrangements with financial institutions to sell certain of our trade receivables and promissory notes from customers without recourse. In addition, we maintain bank accounts with several domestic and foreign financial institutions, any of which may prove not to be financially viable. If we were to stop entering into these factoring arrangements, our operating results, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely impacted by delays or failures in collecting trade receivables. However, by entering into these arrangements, and by engaging these financial institutions for banking services, we are exposed to additional risks. If any of these financial institutions experiences financial difficulties or is otherwise unable to honor the terms of our factoring or deposit arrangements, we may experience material financial losses due to the failure of such arrangements or a lack of access to our funds, any of which could have an adverse impact upon our operating results, financial condition and cash flows.



We are subject to the risks of additional government actions in the event we were to breach the terms of any settlement arrangement into which we have entered.



In connection with the settlement of certain government actions and other legal proceedings related to our historical stock option practices, we have explicitly agreed as a condition to such settlements that we will comply with certain laws, such as the books and records provisions of the federal securities laws. If we were to violate any such law, we might not only be subject to the significant penalties applicable to such violation, but our past settlements may also be impacted by such violation, which could give rise to additional government actions or other legal proceedings. Any such additional actions or proceedings may require us to expend significant management time and incur significant accounting, legal and other expenses, and may divert attention and resources from the operation of our business. These expenditures and diversions, as well as an adverse resolution of any such action or proceeding, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.



General Commercial, Operational, Financial and Regulatory Risks



We are exposed to risks associated with a weakening in the condition of the financial markets and the global economy.



The markets for semiconductors, and therefore our business, are ultimately driven by the global demand for electronic devices by consumers and businesses. Economic uncertainty frequently leads to reduced consumer and business spending, which caused our customers to decrease, cancel or delay their equipment and service orders from us in the economic slowdown during fiscal year 2009. In addition, the tightening of credit markets and concerns regarding the availability of credit that accompanied that slowdown made it more difficult for our customers to raise capital, whether debt or equity, to finance their purchases of capital equipment, including the products we sell. Reduced demand, combined with delays in our customers’ ability to obtain financing (or the unavailability of such financing), has at times in the past adversely affected our product and service sales and revenues and therefore has harmed our business and operating results, and our operating results and financial condition may again be adversely impacted if economic conditions decline from their current levels.



In addition, a decline in the condition of the global financial markets could adversely impact the market values or liquidity of our investments. Our investment portfolio includes corporate and government securities, money market funds and other types of debt and equity investments. Although we believe our portfolio continues to be comprised of sound investments due to the quality and (where applicable) credit ratings, a decline in the capital and financial markets would adversely impact the market value of our investments and their liquidity. If the market value of such investments were to decline, or if we were to have to sell some of our investments under illiquid market conditions, we may be required to recognize an impairment charge on such investments or a loss on such sales, either of which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results.



If we are unable to timely and appropriately adapt to changes resulting from difficult macroeconomic conditions, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.



A majority of our annual revenues are derived from outside the United States, and we maintain significant operations outside the United States. We are exposed to numerous risks as a result of the international nature of our business and operations.





•managing cultural diversity and organizational alignment;



•exposure to the unique characteristics of each region in the global semiconductor market, which can cause capital equipment investment patterns to vary significantly from period to period;



•periodic local or international economic downturns;



•potential adverse tax consequences, including withholding tax rules that may limit the repatriation of our earnings, and higher effective income tax rates in foreign countries where we do business;



•government controls, either by the United States or other countries, that restrict our business overseas or the import or export of semiconductor products or increase the cost of our operations;



•compliance with customs regulations in the countries in which we do business;



•tariffs or other trade barriers (including those applied to our products or to parts and supplies that we purchase);



•political instability, natural disasters, legal or regulatory changes, acts of war or terrorism in regions where we have operations or where we do business;



•fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates may adversely impact our ability to compete on price with local providers or the value of revenues we generate from our international business. Although we attempt to manage some of our near-term currency risks through the use of hedging instruments, there can be no assurance that such efforts will be adequate;



•longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable outside of the United States;



•difficulties in managing foreign distributors (including monitoring and ensuring our distributors’ compliance with applicable laws); and



•inadequate protection or enforcement of our intellectual property and other legal rights in foreign jurisdictions.



Any of the factors above could have a significant negative impact on our business and results of operations.



We might be involved in claims or disputes related to intellectual property or other confidential information that may be costly to resolve, prevent us from selling or using the challenged technology and seriously harm our operating results and financial condition.





We are exposed to various risks related to the legal, regulatory and tax environments in which we perform our operations and conduct our business.









We depend on key personnel to manage our business effectively, and if we are unable to attract, retain and motivate our key employees, our sales and product development could be harmed.



Our employees are vital to our success, and our key management, engineering and other employees are difficult to replace. We generally do not have employment contracts with our key employees. Further, we do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our employees. The expansion of high technology companies worldwide has increased demand and competition for qualified personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, or if we are not able to attract, assimilate and retain additional highly qualified employees to meet our current and future needs, our business and operations could be harmed.



We outsource a number of services to third-party service providers, which decreases our control over the performance of these functions. Disruptions or delays at our third-party service providers could adversely impact our operations.



We outsource a number of services, including our transportation, information systems management and logistics management of spare parts and certain accounting and procurement functions, to domestic and overseas third-party service providers. While outsourcing arrangements may lower our cost of operations, they also reduce our direct control over the services rendered. It is uncertain what effect such diminished control will have on the quality or quantity of products delivered or services rendered, on our ability to quickly respond to changing market conditions, or on our ability to ensure compliance with all applicable domestic and foreign laws and regulations. In addition, many of these outsourced service providers, including certain hosted software applications that we use for confidential data storage, employ cloud computing technology for such storage. These providers’ cloud computing systems may be susceptible to “cyber incidents,” such as intentional cyber attacks aimed at theft of sensitive data or inadvertent cyber-security compromises, which are outside of our control. If we do not effectively develop and manage our outsourcing strategies, if required export and other governmental approvals are not timely obtained, if our third-party service providers do not perform as anticipated, or do not adequately protect our data from cyber-related security breaches, or if there are delays or difficulties in enhancing business processes, we may experience operational difficulties (such as limitations on our ability to ship products), increased costs, manufacturing or service interruptions or delays, loss of intellectual property rights or other sensitive data, quality and compliance issues, and challenges in managing our product inventory or recording and reporting financial and management information, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.



We are exposed to risks related to cybersecurity threats and cyber incidents.



In the conduct of our business, we collect, use, transmit and store data on information systems. This data includes confidential information, transactional information and intellectual property belonging to us, our customers and our business partners, as well as personally-identifiable information of individuals. We allocate significant resources to network security, data encryption and other measures to protect our information systems and data from unauthorized access or misuse. Despite our ongoing efforts to enhance our network security measures, our information systems are susceptible to computer viruses, cyber-related security breaches and similar disruptions from unauthorized intrusions, tampering, misuse, criminal acts, including phishing, or other events or developments that we may be unable to anticipate or fail to mitigate and are subject to the inherent vulnerabilities of network security measures. We have experienced cyber-related attacks in the past, and may experience cyber-related attacks in the future. Our security measures may also be breached due to employee errors, malfeasance, or otherwise. Third parties may also attempt to influence employees, users, suppliers or customers to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our, our customers’ or business partners’ data. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to the information systems change frequently, and may not be recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures.



Any of such occurrences could result in disruptions to our operations; misappropriation, corruption or theft of confidential information, including intellectual property and other critical data, of KLA-Tencor, our customers and other business partners; misappropriation of funds and company assets; reduced value of our investments in research, development and engineering; litigation with, or payment of damages to, third parties; reputational damage; costs to comply with regulatory inquiries or actions; data privacy issues; costs to rebuild our internal information systems; and increased cybersecurity protection and remediation costs. 



We carry insurance that provides some protection against the potential losses arising from a cybersecurity incident but it will not likely cover all such losses, and the losses that it does not cover may be significant.



We rely upon certain critical information systems for our daily business operations. Our inability to use or access our information systems at critical points in time could unfavorably impact our business operations.



Our global operations are dependent upon certain information systems, including telecommunications, the internet, our corporate intranet, network communications, email and various computer hardware and software applications. System failures or malfunctioning, such as difficulties with our customer relationship management (“CRM”) system, could disrupt our operations and our ability to timely and accurately process and report key components of our financial results. Our enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system is integral to our ability to accurately and efficiently maintain our books and records, record transactions, provide critical information to our management, and prepare our financial statements. Any disruptions or difficulties that may occur in connection with our ERP system or other systems (whether in connection with the regular operation, periodic enhancements, modifications or upgrades of such systems or the integration of our acquired businesses into such systems) could adversely affect our ability to complete important business processes, such as the evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.



Acquisitions are an important element of our strategy but, because of the uncertainties involved, we may not find suitable acquisition candidates and we may not be able to successfully integrate and manage acquired businesses. We are also exposed to risks in connection with strategic alliances into which we may enter.







•we may have to devote unanticipated financial and management resources to acquired businesses;





•we may not be able to realize expected operating efficiencies or product integration benefits from our acquisitions;



•we may experience challenges in entering into new market segments for which we have not previously manufactured and sold products;



•we may face difficulties in coordinating geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities;



•the customers, distributors, suppliers, employees and others with whom the companies we acquire have business dealings may have a potentially adverse reaction to the acquisition;



•we may have to write-off goodwill or other intangible assets; and



•we may incur unforeseen obligations or liabilities in connection with acquisitions.



At times, we may also enter into strategic alliances with customers, suppliers or other business partners with respect to development of technology and intellectual property. These alliances typically require significant investments of capital and exchange of proprietary, highly sensitive information. The success of these alliances depends on various factors over which we may have limited or no control and requires ongoing and effective cooperation with our strategic partners. Mergers and acquisitions and strategic alliances are inherently subject to significant risks, and the inability to effectively manage these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.



Disruption of our manufacturing facilities or other operations, or in the operations of our customers, due to earthquake, flood, other natural catastrophic events, health epidemics or terrorism could result in cancellation of orders, delays in deliveries or other business activities, or loss of customers and could seriously harm our business.



We have significant manufacturing operations in the United States, Singapore, Israel, Germany and China. In addition, our business is international in nature, with our sales, service and administrative personnel and our customers located in numerous countries throughout the world. Operations at our manufacturing facilities and our assembly subcontractors, as well as our other operations and those of our customers, are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including work stoppages, acts of war, terrorism, health epidemics, fire, earthquake, volcanic eruptions, energy shortages, flooding or other natural disasters. Such disruption could cause delays in, among other things, shipments of products to our customers, our ability to perform services requested by our customers, or the installation and acceptance of our products at customer sites. We cannot ensure that alternate means of conducting our operations (whether through alternate production capacity or service providers or otherwise) would be available if a major disruption were to occur or that, if such alternate means were available, they could be obtained on favorable terms.



In addition, as part of our cost-cutting actions, we have consolidated several operating facilities. Our California operations are now primarily centralized in our Milpitas facility. The consolidation of our California operations into a single campus could further concentrate the risks related to any of the disruptive events described above, such as acts of war or terrorism, earthquakes, fires or other natural disasters, if any such event were to impact our Milpitas facility.



We are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts and acts of war. If international political instability continues or increases, our business and results of operations could be harmed.



The threat of terrorism targeted at, or acts of war in, the regions of the world in which we do business increases the uncertainty in our markets. Any act of terrorism or war that affects the economy or the semiconductor industry could adversely affect our business. Increased international political instability in various parts of the world, disruption in air transportation and further enhanced security measures as a result of terrorist attacks may hinder our ability to do business and may increase our costs of operations. We maintain significant manufacturing and research and development operations in Israel, an area that has historically experienced a high degree of political instability, and we are therefore exposed to risks associated with future instability in that region. Such instability could directly impact our ability to operate our business (or our customers’ ability to operate their businesses) in the affected region, cause us to incur increased costs in transportation, make such transportation unreliable, increase our insurance costs, and cause international currency markets to fluctuate. Such instability could also have the same effects on our suppliers and their ability to timely deliver their products. If international political instability continues or increases in any region in which we do business, our business and results of operations could be harmed. We are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts and acts of war.



We self-insure certain risks including earthquake risk. If one or more of the uninsured events occurs, we could suffer major financial loss.



We purchase insurance to help mitigate the economic impact of certain insurable risks; however, certain risks are uninsurable, are insurable only at significant cost or cannot be mitigated with insurance. Accordingly, we may experience a loss that is not covered by insurance, either because we do not carry applicable insurance or because the loss exceeds the applicable policy amount or is less than the deductible amount of the applicable policy. For example, we do not currently hold earthquake insurance. An earthquake could significantly disrupt our manufacturing operations, a significant portion of which are conducted in California, an area highly susceptible to earthquakes. It could also significantly delay our research and engineering efforts on new products, much of which is also conducted in California. We take steps to minimize the damage that would be caused by an earthquake, but there is no certainty that our efforts will prove successful in the event of an earthquake. We self-insure earthquake risks because we believe this is a prudent financial decision based on our cash reserves and the high cost and limited coverage available in the earthquake insurance market. Certain other risks are also self-insured either based on a similar cost-benefit analysis, or based on the unavailability of insurance. If one or more of the uninsured events occurs, we could suffer major financial loss.



We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Although we hedge certain currency risks, we may still be adversely affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates or declining economic conditions in these countries.



We have some exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily the Japanese Yen and the euro. We have international subsidiaries that operate and sell our products globally. In addition, an increasing proportion of our manufacturing activities are conducted outside of the United States, and many of the costs associated with such activities are denominated in foreign currencies. We routinely hedge our exposures to certain foreign currencies with certain financial institutions in an effort to minimize the impact of certain currency exchange rate fluctuations, but these hedges may be inadequate to protect us from currency exchange rate fluctuations. To the extent that these hedges are inadequate, or if there are significant currency exchange rate fluctuations in currencies for which we do not have hedges in place, our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business could be adversely affected. Furthermore, if a financial counterparty to our hedges experiences financial difficulties or is otherwise unable to honor the terms of the foreign currency hedge, we may experience material financial losses.



We are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates and the market values of our portfolio investments; impairment of our investments could harm our earnings. In addition, we and our stockholders are exposed to risks related to the volatility of the market for our common stock.



Our investment portfolio primarily consists of both corporate and government debt securities that are susceptible to changes in market interest rates and bond yields. As market interest rates and bond yields increase, those securities with a lower yield-at-cost show a mark-to-market unrealized loss. We believe we have the ability to realize the full value of all these investments upon maturity. However, an impairment of the fair market value of our investments, even if unrealized, must be reflected in our financial statements for the applicable period and may therefore have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for that period.



In addition, the market price for our common stock is volatile and has fluctuated significantly during recent years. The trading price of our common stock could continue to be highly volatile and fluctuate widely in response to various factors, including without limitation conditions in the semiconductor industry and other industries in which we operate, fluctuations in the global economy or capital markets, our operating results or other performance metrics, or adverse consequences experienced by us as a result of any of the risks described elsewhere in this Item 1A. Volatility in the market price of our common stock could cause an investor in our common stock to experience a loss on the value of their investment in us and could also adversely impact our ability to raise capital through the sale of our common stock or to use our common stock as consideration to acquire other companies.



We are exposed to risks in connection with tax and regulatory compliance audits in various jurisdictions.



We are subject to tax and regulatory compliance audits (such as related to customs or product safety requirements) in various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may assess additional income or other taxes, penalties, fines or other prohibitions against us. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable and that our products and practices comply with applicable regulations, the final determination of any such audit and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals related to income taxes and other contingencies. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made.



A change in our effective tax rate can have a significant adverse impact on our business.



We earn profits in, and are therefore potentially subject to taxes in, the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions, including Singapore, Israel and the Cayman Islands, the countries in which we earn the majority of our non-U.S. profits. Due to economic, political or other conditions, tax rates in those jurisdictions may be subject to significant change. A number of factors may adversely impact our future effective tax rates, such as the jurisdictions in which our profits are determined to be earned and taxed; changes in the tax rates imposed by those jurisdictions; expiration of tax holidays in certain jurisdictions that are not renewed; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and impairment of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; changes in stock-based compensation expense; changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws; changes in generally accepted accounting principles; and the repatriation of earnings from outside the United States for which we have not previously provided for United States taxes. A change in our effective tax rate can materially and adversely impact our results from operations. For example, as a consequence of the newly enacted Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“the Act”), foreign earnings are now deemed to be repatriated resulting in a higher effective tax rate for the Company’s fiscal year ending June 30, 2018. In addition, recent changes to U.S. tax laws will significantly impact how U.S. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. Numerous countries are evaluating 



their existing tax laws due in part, to recommendations made by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development’s (“OECD’s”) Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (“BEPS”) project. To address the impact of the recent U.S. tax law changes, we recorded a provisional tax amount of $340.9 million for the transitional tax liability and recorded a provisional tax amount of $101.1 million to re-measure certain deferred tax assets and liabilities as a result of the enactment of the Act. These provisional tax amounts recorded are based on our reasonable estimate until we fully complete our assessment and we may need additional information to complete our assessment. We are still evaluating the tax provisions related to Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (“GILTI”) and we have not made a policy election on how to account for the GILTI provisions of the Act as allowed by the U.S. generally accepted accounting standards. Our selection of an accounting policy with respect to the new GILTI tax rules will depend, in part, on analyzing our global income to determine whether we expect to have future U.S. inclusions in taxable income related to GILTI and, if so, what the impact is expected to be. 





Compliance with federal securities laws, rules and regulations, as well as NASDAQ requirements, has become increasingly complex, and the significant attention and expense we must devote to those areas may have an adverse impact on our business.



Federal securities laws, rules and regulations, as well as NASDAQ rules and regulations, require companies to maintain extensive corporate governance measures, impose comprehensive reporting and disclosure requirements, set strict independence and financial expertise standards for audit and other committee members and impose civil and criminal penalties for companies and their chief executive officers, chief financial officers and directors for securities law violations. These laws, rules and regulations have increased, and in the future are expected to continue to increase, the scope, complexity and cost of our corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices, which could harm our results of operations and divert management’s attention from business operations.



A change in accounting standards or practices or a change in existing taxation rules or practices (or changes in interpretations of such standards, practices or rules) can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective.



New accounting standards and taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements and taxation rules have occurred and will continue to occur in the future. Changes to (or revised interpretations or applications of) existing accounting standards or tax rules or the questioning of current or past practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. For example, in May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued an accounting standard update regarding revenue from contracts with customers, and in February 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update which amends the existing accounting standards for leases. Adoption of new standards may require changes to our processes, accounting systems, and internal controls. Difficulties encountered during adoption could result in internal control deficiencies or delay the reporting of our financial results. In addition, the passing of the Act in December 2017 caused us to significantly increase our provision for income taxes, which had a material adverse effect on our net income for the three and six months ended December 31, 2017. Further interpretations of the Act from the government and regulatory organizations may change our tax expense provided for our transitional tax liability and deferred tax adjustments as well as our provision liability or accounting treatment of the provisional liability which may potentially affect the measurement of these balances or potentially give rise to new deferred tax amounts.



