ITEM 4. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES



Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures. Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, we conducted an evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures, as such terms are defined under Rule 13a-15(e) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). Based on this evaluation, our principal executive officer and our principal financial officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this Quarterly Report.



Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting. There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.



ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES



Not applicable.



ITEM 5. OTHER INFORMATION



In connection with the European Commission (EC) fine (see “Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 6. Commitments and Contingencies” in this Quarterly Report), the Company intends to provide a financial guarantee to satisfy its obligation of €997,439,000 while the Company appeals the EC’s decision to the General Court of the European Union. To provide the financial guarantee, the Company entered into (a) a Continuing Letter of Credit Agreement (Uncommitted) dated as of April 20, 2018, between the Company and BNP Paribas (BNP), pursuant to which BNP has agreed to issue an irrevocable letter of credit in an aggregate amount of €250,000,000 in favor of the EC (the BNP Letter of Credit); (b) a Master Reimbursement Agreement dated as of April 20, 2018, between the Company and Barclays Bank PLC (Barclays), pursuant to which Barclays has agreed to issue a standby letter of credit in an aggregate amount of €332,000,000 in favor of the EC (the Barclays Letter of Credit and, together with the BNP Letter of Credit, the Letters of Credit); (c) a General Indemnity Agreement dated as of April 20, 2018, between the Company and Swiss Reinsurance America Corporation (Swiss Re), pursuant to which Swiss Re has agreed to provide a guarantee for an aggregate amount of €60,000,000 in favor of the EC (the Swiss Re Guarantee); and (d) a General Agreement of Indemnity dated as of April 20, 2018, between the Company and Euler Hermes North America Insurance Company (Euler), pursuant to which Euler has agreed to provide a guarantee for an aggregate amount of €200,000,000 in favor of the EC (the Euler Guarantee). In addition, pursuant to the Company’s existing General Indemnity Agreement with Zurich American Insurance Company and Zurich Insurance Group Ltd (collectively, Zurich) dated as of October 30, 2017, Zurich will provide a guarantee for an aggregate principal amount of €155,439,000 in favor of the EC (the Zurich Guarantee and, together with the Swiss Re Guarantee and the Euler Guarantee, the Guarantees). Collectively, the aggregate principal amount of the Letters of Credit and the Guarantees will equal €997,439,000. 



Each Letter of Credit contains certain customary representations and warranties, affirmative covenants and events of default. Each Letter of Credit provides that, in the event a disbursement is made in respect of such Letter of Credit but is not reimbursed as required, the unreimbursed amount will bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the prime rate (as defined in the applicable Letter of Credit) plus 2.0%. The Company has also agreed to pay customary fees to each of BNP and Barclays in connection with the BNP Letter of Credit and the Barclays Letter of Credit, respectively. If an event of default under a Letter of Credit occurs and is not cured or waived, any unpaid fees outstanding under such Letter of Credit may be declared immediately due and payable.



The Swiss Re Guarantee and the Euler Guarantee each contain customary provisions for transactions of this type, and provide that the Company will pay all premiums, costs and charges of Swiss Re and Euler under the terms of the applicable 





Guarantee. In addition, the Company will pay Swiss Re and Euler interest at a rate per annum equal to the prime rate (as defined in the applicable Guarantee) plus 2.0% on any payments made by Swiss Re or Euler, as applicable. 





ITEM 6. EXHIBITS



















SIGNATURES



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.



QUALCOMM Incorporated





 George S. Davis



 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer





