item1.txt
Revenue is recorded at a point in time when the services are completed as this is when right to payment and customer acceptance occurs.
Standalone selling price, once established, is then used to allocate total consideration proportionally to the various performance obligations within a contract.
Early payment discounts are offered on a limited basis and are not significant.
ASC 606 did not change the accounting for rebates under ASC 605.
Agents are paid the commissions after funds are received by the Company from its customers.
The provisions of ASU 2016-02 require a dual approach for lessee accounting under which a lessee would recognize a right-of-use asset and a corresponding lease liability.
Leases will be classified as either finance or operating leases.
ASU 2016-02 will be effective for us beginning October 1, 2019, but early adoption is permitted.
2016-13, "Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments" (Topic 326).
In March 2017, the FASB issued ASU No.
We adopted this standard ASU 2017-07 effective October 1, 2018 and applied it retrospectively.
The amount of revenue recognized during the three months ended December 31, 2018 that were included in the opening current contract liability balances in our Performance Materials segment were $2,153.
The purchase consideration was $1,513,235, including consideration transferred of $1,536,452, less cash acquired of $23,217.
Under the terms of the definitive agreement to acquire KMG, each share of KMG common stock was converted into the right to receive $55.65 in cash and 0.2000 of a share of Cabot Microelectronics common stock.
Technology and know-how represent the estimated fair value of KMG’s technology, processes and knowledge regarding its product offerings, and are being amortized on a straight-line basis.
These intangible assets are capitalized and accounted for as indefinite-lived intangible assets and will be subject to impairment testing.
KMG’s results of operations have been included in our unaudited Consolidated Statements of Income (Loss) and Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income from the Acquisition Date.
KMG’s net loss since the Acquisition Date was $14,174, which includes $25,661 of acquisition related costs, net of tax, as well as additional amortization and depreciation expense associated with recording KMG’s net assets at fair value.


item2.txt
In the Electronic Materials segment, this quarter we delivered strong growth in both CMP slurries and pads, as well as in KMG’s legacy electronic chemicals business.
In addition, higher amortization and depreciation costs associated with purchase accounting adversely impacted net income in the current quarter.
Excluding revenue from KMG businesses, Cabot Microelectronics revenue increased $19.8 million, or 14.1%.
The increase in sales volume was consistent with continued overall strong demand conditions in the global semiconductor industry.
The increase was primarily due to higher supplies and equipment costs used in research and development of $0.9 million and higher staffing-related costs of $0.8 million.
Net income was $13.4 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018, which represented an increase of 536.0%, or $16.5 million, from the net loss reported in the three months ended December 31, 2017.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Our customer base is concentrated among a limited number of large customers in each of our segments.
Our supply chain includes the raw materials we use to manufacture our products, our production operations and the means by which we deliver our products to our customers.
On June 23, 2016, the United Kingdom held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the European Union (“Brexit”).
While such changes in laws, regulations and conditions have not had a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition to date, we cannot assure you as to the future effect of any such changes.
Compliance with EHS laws and regulations has resulted in ongoing costs for us and could restrict our ability to modify or expand our facilities, continue production, require us to install costly pollution control equipment, or incur significant other expenses, including remediation costs.


