item1.txt
The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Cabot Microelectronics and its subsidiaries.
Contracts with prospective tiered price discounts require judgment in determining if that discount represents a material right.
However, the period of time between invoicing and when payment is due is typically not significant and has no significant financing components.
Customers pay in accordance with negotiated terms upon receipt of goods or completion of services.
The Company recognizes revenue related to product sales at a point in time following the transfer of control of such products to the customer, which generally occurs upon shipment, or delivery depending on the terms of the underlying contracts.
Standalone selling price, once established, is then used to allocate total consideration proportionally to the various performance obligations within a contract.
ASC 606 did not change the accounting for rebates under ASC 605.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-02, "Leases" (Topic 842).
The provisions of ASU 2016-02 require a dual approach for lessee accounting under which a lessee would recognize a right-of-use asset and a corresponding lease liability.
Leases will be classified as either finance or operating leases.
ASU 2016-13 also provides that credit losses relating to available-for-sale debt securities should be recorded through an allowance for credit losses.
ASU 2016-13 will be effective for us beginning October 1, 2020, but early adoption is permitted as of October 1, 2019.
2017-07 "Improving the Presentation of Net Period Pension Cost and Net Period Postretirement Benefit Cost" (Topic 715).
The purchase consideration was $1,513,235, including consideration transferred of $1,536,452, less cash acquired of $23,217.


item2.txt
In electronic chemicals, we saw stable demand this quarter.
In our Performance Materials segment, we recorded strong revenue, driven by results in our pipeline performance business.
The decrease was primarily due to lower staffing-related costs of $0.9 million, including incentive compensation costs.
Other expense was $1.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, which represented an increase of $0.9 million, from the three months ended March 31, 2018.
The Company’s effective tax rate for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was 28.5%, compared to 19.6% in the same quarter last year.
Net income benefited from the addition of the KMG businesses, and was partially offset by acquisition and integration-related expenses, a charge for fair value write-up of acquired inventory sold, increased amortization and depreciation associated with re-valuing KMG assets to fair value, and higher interest expenses resulting from the debt borrowing to finance the Acquisition.
Revenue from Cabot Microelectronics’ heritage businesses increased by $19.1 million, or 6.7%.
Adjusted EBITDA margin is defined as adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of revenue.
This measure is reported to the chief operating decision maker for purposes of making decisions about allocating resources to the segments and assessing their performance.
The increase was driven by the use of $1,182 million for the Acquisition.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Our customer base is concentrated among a limited number of large customers in each of our segments.
Our supply chain includes the raw materials we use to manufacture our products, our production operations and the means by which we deliver our products to our customers.
In addition, there are risks that the Chinese government may, among other things, require the use of local suppliers, compel companies that do business in China to partner with local companies to conduct business, and, provide incentives to government-backed local customers to buy from local suppliers rather than companies like ours, all of which could adversely impact our business, including our results of operations.
In June 2016, the United Kingdom held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the European Union (“Brexit”).


