Cabot Microelectronics Corporation ("Cabot Microelectronics'', "the Company'', "us'', "we'', or "our'') supplies high-performance polishing slurries and pads used in the manufacture of advanced integrated circuit (IC) devices within the semiconductor industry, in a process called chemical mechanical planarization (CMP).
CMP polishes surfaces at an atomic level, thereby helping to enable IC device manufacturers to produce smaller, faster and more complex IC devices with fewer defects.
We develop, manufacture and sell CMP polishing pads, which are used in conjunction with slurries in the CMP process.
We also develop and provide products for demanding surface modification applications in other industries through our Engineered Surface Finishes (ESF) business.
The unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared by Cabot Microelectronics pursuant to the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP).
The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Cabot Microelectronics and its subsidiaries.
All intercompany transactions and balances between the companies have been eliminated as of March 31, 2018.
The accounting estimates that require management's most difficult and subjective judgments include, but are not limited to, those estimates related to bad debt expense, inventory valuation, valuation and classification of auction rate securities, impairment of long-lived assets and investments, business combinations, goodwill, other intangible assets, interest rate swaps, share-based compensation, income taxes and contingencies.
The adjustments, relating primarily to accumulated earnings taxes of a foreign operation, increased the income tax expense for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 by $2,071.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company entered into a managed investment arrangement with a third party to invest in fixed income securities.
These assets were classified as available-for-sale securities and were recorded at fair value.We assume no obligation to update this forward-looking information.
This was driven in part by our memory customers' migration from 2D to 3D NAND.
Additionally, continued capacity expansions in 3D NAND are underway, primarily in Korea and China, which should also continue to provide growth opportunities for us in the future.
We believe we remain well positioned to benefit from these long-term demand trends.
The enactment of the Tax Act in the United States in December 2017 facilitated the Company's repatriation of a substantial amount of its non-U.S. cash and available-for-sale securities during the second quarter of fiscal 2018 and following the end of the quarter in early April.Some of our foreign operations maintain their accounting records in their local currencies.We do not believe there have been any material changes in our risk factors since the filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017.
However, we may update our risk factors, including adding or deleting them, in our SEC filings from time to time for clarification purposes or to include additional information, at management's discretion, even when there have been no material changes.