item1.txt
For free products, the new revenue standard requires that a portion of the transaction price be allocated to the free product and deferred until the product has been delivered.
Contracts with prospective tiered price discounts require judgment in determining if that discount represents a material right.
Customers pay in accordance with negotiated terms upon receipt of goods or completion of services.
Revenue is recorded at a point in time when the services are completed as this is when right to payment and customer acceptance occurs.
ASC 606 did not change the accounting for rebates under ASC 605.
Under ASC 340, sales commissions are required to be capitalized and expensed over the associated contract period.
However, as a practical expedient, the Company does not capitalize commissions as the associated contracts are generally one year or less in duration.
2016-02, "Leases" (Topic 842).
The guidance was amended through various ASU's subsequent to ASU 2016-02, all of which will be effective for us beginning October 1, 2019, but early adoption is permitted.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
The guidance also eases certain documentation and assessment requirements and modifies the accounting for components excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness.
We applied the new guidance to the interest rate swap that we entered into during our second quarter of fiscal 2019.
The fair value of acquired property, plant and equipment is primarily valued at its “value-in-use.” The fair value of acquired identifiable intangible assets was determined using the “income approach” on an individual asset basis.
The key assumptions used in the calculation of the discounted cash flows include projected revenue, gross margin, operating expenses, discount rate and customer attrition.


item2.txt
These products enable pipeline operators to optimize the efficiency and throughput of oil transport in both U.S. and international oil production.
The cost of sales from Cabot Microelectronics’ heritage businesses decreased by $3.8 million, primarily driven by lower sales volume.
The change was primarily due to higher loss on foreign exchange in the current quarter and the absence of the gain on termination of interest rate swap agreements of $0.5 million that had occurred in the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
Revenue was $759.1 million for the nine months ended June 30, 2019, which represented a 75.1%, or $325.7 million increase from the nine months ended June 30, 2018.
Total research, development and technical expenses were $39.0 million for nine months ended June 30, 2019, which was relatively flat compared to the same period last year.
Net income benefited from the addition of the KMG businesses, and the absence of the adverse impact of the Tax Act in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Net income was partially offset by acquisition and integration-related expenses, a charge for fair value write-up of acquired inventory sold, increased amortization and depreciation associated with re-valuing KMG assets to fair value, higher interest expenses resulting from the debt borrowing to finance the Acquisition, and the increased tax expense related to newly issued final regulations related to US Tax Reform which impacted our reserves for uncertain tax positions.
The remaining increase was driven by higher value product mix, strong organic demand for the Company’s heritage CMP polishing pads product line, which increased 11.1%, primarily on higher sales volume, partially offset by the decrease in Company's heritage CMP slurries products due to the softer industry conditions.
Adjusted EBITDA for the Electronic Materials and Performance Materials segments is presented in conformity with Accounting Standards Codification Topic 280, Segment Reporting.
This measure is reported to the chief operating decision maker for purposes of making decisions about allocating resources to the segments and assessing their performance.
For these reasons, this measure is excluded from the definition of non-GAAP financial measures under the SEC Regulation G and Item 10(e) of Regulation S-K.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
We have identified our Performance Materials segment as another area of potential continued growth and the product offerings in our Performance Materials segment are similarly concentrated.
As such, our business would suffer if these products became obsolete or if consumption of these products decreased.
Industry analysts predict that this trend will continue, which means the semiconductor industry will be comprised of fewer and larger participants in the future if their prediction is correct.
We depend on our supply chain to enable us to meet the demands of our customers.


