fls.txt



item1.txt
CMP polishes surfaces at an atomic level, thereby helping to enable IC device manufacturers to produce smaller, faster and more complex IC devices with fewer defects.
We develop, manufacture and sell CMP polishing pads, which are used in conjunction with slurries in the CMP process.
We also develop and provide products for demanding surface modification applications in other industries through our Engineered Surface Finishes (ESF) business.
For additional information, refer to Part 1, Item 1, "Business", in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017.
The unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared by Cabot Microelectronics pursuant to the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP).
The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Cabot Microelectronics and its subsidiaries.
All intercompany transactions and balances between the companies have been eliminated as of December 31, 2017.
The accounting estimates that require management's most difficult and subjective judgments include, but are not limited to, those estimates related to bad debt expense, inventory valuation, valuation and classification of auction rate securities, impairment of long-lived assets and investments, business combinations, goodwill, other intangible assets, interest rate swaps, share-based compensation, income taxes and contingencies.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company entered into a managed investment arrangement with a third party to invest in fixed income securities.
These assets are classified as available-for-sale securities and are recorded at fair value.
We have presented these securities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2017 as a current asset due to management's intent to use these funds for current business requirements.
Cash flows from purchases, sales and maturities of these securities are presented as investing activities on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
Level 1 inputs consist of valuations based on quoted market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 3 inputs consist of valuations based on unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity.
The following table presents financial instruments, other than long-term debt, that we measured at fair value on a recurring basis at December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2017.
See Note 8 for a detailed discussion of our long-term debt.
We have classified the following assets and liabilities in accordance with the fair value hierarchy set forth in the applicable standards.


item2.txt
Forward-looking statements reflect our current expectations and are inherently uncertain.
We assume no obligation to update this forward-looking information.
In our first quarter of fiscal 2018, we experienced continued solid demand for our products, particularly for memory and logic applications, as well as continued strength in China.
Some semiconductor industry analysts continue to expect solid industry demand conditions throughout our fiscal year, especially for 3D memory technology.
We achieved record quarterly revenue in our tungsten slurry and polishing pads product areas.
We continue to expect our gross profit percentage for full fiscal year 2018 to be between 50% and 52%.


item3.txt
Some of our foreign operations maintain their accounting records in their local currencies.


item4.txt
Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), has conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) as of December 31, 2017.


part2.txt
We do not believe there have been any material changes in our risk factors since the filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017.
However, we may update our risk factors, including adding or deleting them, in our SEC filings from time to time for clarification purposes or to include additional information, at management's discretion, even when there have been no material changes.
Since its inception, the semiconductor industry has experienced technological changes and advances in the design, manufacture, performance and application of IC devices.
We expect these technological changes, and this drive toward lower costs, higher quality and performance and higher yields, will continue in the future.


