ITEM 2 — MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Throughout this document, references to “we,” “our,” the “company,” and “Xerox” refer to Xerox Corporation and its subsidiaries.
References to “Xerox Corporation” refer to the stand-alone parent company and do not include its subsidiaries.
Currency Impact
To better understand the trends in our business, we believe that it is helpful to analyze the impact of changes in the translation of foreign currencies into U.S.
Dollars on revenue and expenses.
We refer to this analysis as "constant currency", “currency impact” or “the impact from currency.” This impact is calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period's currency translation rate.
This impact is calculated for all countries where the functional currency is the local country currency.
We do not hedge the translation effect of revenues or expenses denominated in currencies where the local currency is the functional currency.
Management believes the constant currency measure provides investors an additional perspective on revenue trends.
Currency impact can be determined as the difference between actual growth rates and constant currency growth rates.
The constant currency impact for signings growth is calculated on the basis of plan currency rates.
Overview
Fuji Xerox Transaction and Recent Developments
Refer to Note 19 - Contingencies and Litigation and Note 20 - Fuji Xerox Transaction and Recent Developments in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to this transaction and related matters.
Fuji Xerox Adjustments
In 2018, in connection with the completion of the audits of Fuji Xerox’s fiscal year-end financial statements as of and for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2017, as well as the review of Fuji Xerox’s unaudited interim financial statements as of and for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, additional adjustments and misstatements were identified.
These additional adjustments and misstatements were to the previously reported net income of Fuji Xerox for the period from 2010 through 2017 and are incremental to the items identified by the IIC noted above.
These incremental adjustments primarily relate to Fuji Xerox’s Asia Pacific subsidiaries and involve improper revenue recognition, including revenue associated with leasing transactions, additional provisions for bad debt allowances and other asset impairments.
In certain instances, some of the adjustments related to inappropriate accounting and reporting practices in the Fuji Xerox Asia Pacific subsidiaries and are further evidence of inadequate management oversight and an insufficient entity level monitoring system for financial statements of subsidiaries beyond what was previously identified by the IIC.
Fuji Xerox is committed to implementing additional measures to remediate these newly identified issues.
Xerox 2018 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
Refer to Note 10 - Investments in Affiliates, at Equity in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
First Quarter 2018 Review
Total revenue of $2.44 billion for first quarter 2018 declined 0.8% from first quarter 2017 including a 3.8-percentage point favorable impact from currency.
Post-sale revenue, which primarily reflects contracted services, equipment maintenance, supplies and financing, were $1.94 billion and represented 80% of total revenues.
Post-sale revenue, declined 0.3% including a 3.8-percentage point favorable impact from currency.
The decline in post-sale revenue primarily reflected continuing lower page volume trends and a lower population of devices as well as the higher mix of installs of lower usage devices.
These declines were partially offset by higher revenues from our Managed Document Services and Global Imaging business.
Equipment revenues of $499 million declined by 2.7%, including a 3.7-percentage point favorable impact from currency.
Excluding the impact from currency, equipment revenues declined across all product areas and reflected price declines of approximately 5% as well as the follow-on impact of higher entry and mid-range sales in fourth quarter 2017 related to the expansion of our U.S. indirect channels.
The decline in equipment sales also reflected the overall market decline trends, unfavorable mix and lower revenues from our OEM business.
Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was $23 million and included after-tax costs of $155 million related to the amortization of intangible assets, restructuring and related costs, transaction and related costs, non-service retirement-related costs and other discrete adjustments, resulting in adjusted1 net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox of $178 million.
Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the three months ended March 31, 2017 was $46 million and included after-tax costs of $130 million related to the amortization of intangible assets, restructuring and related costs, non-service retirement-related costs and other discrete adjustments, resulting in adjusted1 net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox of $176 million.
The decrease in net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the prior year period was primarily due to lower equity income from our unconsolidated affiliates, which included our share of a significant restructuring charge recorded by Fuji Xerox, transaction and related costs and higher income taxes.
These impacts were partially offset by lower restructuring and related costs and non-service retirement-related costs.
The increase in adjusted1 net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the prior year period was primarily related to increased operating profits reflecting the continued benefits of cost savings and productivity improvements, which offset the decline in revenues, as well as lower interest expense and a gain on the sale of non-core assets.
These impacts were partially offset by lower equity income from unconsolidated affiliates and higher income taxes.
Operating cash flow from continuing operations for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was $216 million, as compared to $132 million for the prior year period.
The increase is primarily due to improved operating profits, working capital2 and the prior year reclassification of $54 million of collections of deferred proceeds and beneficial interests from the sale of receivables to investing cash flows as a result of an accounting change (Refer to Note 4 - Recent Accounting Pronouncements in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information).
Cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was $2 million and included capital expenditures (including internal use software) of $18 million which were partially offset by proceeds of $16 million from the sale of non-core business assets.
Cash used in financing activities of $117 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 primarily reflects payments of $25 million related to the termination of a capital lease obligation and $13 million of bridge facility costs, as well as dividend payments of $67 million.
Xerox 2018 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
Financial Review
Revenues
CC - See "Currency Impact" section for a description of Constant Currency.
Post sale revenue primarily reflects contracted services, equipment maintenance, supplies and financing.
These revenues are associated with the population of devices in the field, which is affected by installs and removals, as well as the page volumes generated by the usage of such devices and the revenue per printed page.
Post sale revenue decreased 0.3% as compared to first quarter 2017, with a 3.8-percentage point favorable impact from currency.
•Services, maintenance and rentals revenue includes rental and maintenance revenue (including bundled supplies) as well as the post sale component of the document services revenue from our Managed Document Services (MDS) offerings, and revenues from our Communication and Marketing Solutions (CMS).
These revenues decreased 0.8%, with a 4.3-percentage point favorable impact from currency.
The decline at constant currency1 reflected the continuing trends of lower page volumes and a lower population of devices, which are partially associated with lower signings and installs in prior periods, as well as the impact of a higher mix of installs of lower usage products.
These impacts are partially offset by higher revenues from MDS driven by our SMB-focused channels, along with revenues from acquisitions within our Global Imaging business and higher revenues from developing markets.
•Supplies, paper and other sales includes unbundled supplies and other sales.
These revenues were flat compared to the first quarter of 2017, with a 2.4-percentage point favorable impact from currency.
The decline at constant currency1 was driven by continued declines in equipment manufacturer (OEM) supplies as well as lower supplies demand consistent with a lower population of devices in the field, partially offset by higher supplies sales within our Global Imaging business.
Xerox 2018 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
•Financing revenue is generated from financed equipment sale transactions.
The 6.6% decline in these revenues reflected a declining finance receivables balance due to lower equipment sales in prior periods and included a 4.0-percentage point favorable impact from currency.
CC - See "Currency Impact" section for a description of Constant Currency.
Equipment sales revenue decreased 2.7% as compared to first quarter 2017, with a 3.7-percentage point favorable impact from currency and was impacted by price declines of approximately 5% (which were in-line with our historic declines).
This decrease also reflected the follow-on impact of higher entry and mid-range sales in fourth quarter 2017 related to the expansion of our U.S. indirect channels.
The decline at constant currency1 in entry sales reflected in part higher sales in the prior year related to the indirect channels transition to the new products as well as lower revenues within our indirect channel in the current year, and a higher mix of low-end personal devices mainly in our developing markets.
Mid-range declined modestly at constant currency1 reflecting higher installs of new products offset by ongoing declines consistent with overall market trends.
The decrease at constant currency1 in high-end sales primarily reflected lower revenues from iGen and continuous feed systems due in part to timing of installs in the prior year, as well as lower revenues from black-and-white systems consistent with market decline trends; these declines were partially mitigated by higher activity from the Versant entry production color systems that were launched in the second quarter of 2017.
Total Installs
Revenue associated with equipment installations, discussed below, may be reflected up-front in Equipment sales or over time either through rental income or as part of our Managed Document Services revenues (which are both reported within our post-sale revenues), depending on the terms and conditions of our agreements with customers.
•4% increase in color multifunction devices, reflecting demand for recently launched products.
•18% increase in black-and-white multifunction devices, driven largely by higher activity for low-end devices in developing markets.
•16% increase in mid-range color installs, reflecting higher demand for recently launched products.
•11% increase in mid-range black-and-white, as demand for recently launched products more than offset market trends.
•6% increase in high-end color systems, as growth from Versant products offset lower installs of higher-end color systems.
•9% decrease in high-end black-and-white systems reflecting market trends.
Xerox 2018 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
Signings
CC - See "Currency Impact" section for a description of Constant Currency.
First quarter 2018 signings decreased 0.6% from first quarter 2017, with a 1.4-percentage point favorable impact from currency, reflecting lower contribution from new business.
On a trailing twelve month (TTM) basis, signings increased 1.1% from the comparable prior year period, with a 0.5-percentage point unfavorable impact from currency.
New business TCV decreased 5.2% from first quarter 2017, with a 1.4-percentage point favorable impact from currency, and decreased 12.2% at constant currency1 on a TTM basis, led by lower signings in Europe.
Renewal Rate
Renewal rate is defined as the annual recurring revenue (ARR) on contracts that are renewed during the period as a percentage of ARR on all contracts for which a renewal decision was made during the period.
Contract renewal rate for the first quarter 2018 was 85%, compared to our full year 2017 renewal rate of 84%.
CC - See "Currency Impact" section for a description of Constant Currency.
Geographic Sales Channels and Product and Offerings Definitions
•North America, which includes our sales channels in the U.S. and Canada.
•International, which includes our sales channels in Europe, Eurasia, Latin America, Middle East, Africa and India.
•Other primarily includes our OEM business, as well as sales to and royalties from Fuji Xerox, and our licensing revenue.
•“Entry”, which includes A4 devices and desktop printers.
Prices in this product group can range from approximately $150 to $3,000.
•“Mid-Range”, which includes A3 Office and Light Production devices that generally serve workgroup environments in mid to large enterprises.
Prices in this product group can range from approximately $2,000 to $75,000+.
•“High-End”, which includes production printing and publishing systems that generally serve the graphic communications marketplace and large enterprises.
Prices for these systems can range from approximately $30,000 to $1,000,000+.
•Managed Document Services (MDS) revenue, which includes solutions and services that span from managing print to automating processes to managing content.
Our primary offerings within MDS are Managed Print Services (including from Global Imaging Systems), as well as workflow automation services, and Centralized Print Services and Solutions (CPS).
MDS excludes Communications and Marketing Solutions (CMS).
Xerox 2018 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
Costs, Expenses and Other Income
Summary of Key Financial Ratios
Pre-tax Income (Loss) Margin
First quarter 2018 pre-tax income margin of 5.5% increased 6.2-percentage points as compared to first quarter 2017.
The increase was primarily driven by lower restructuring and related costs that reflected the phasing of our strategic transformation initiatives, as well as lower Other expense, net partially offset by Transaction related costs.
First quarter 2018 adjusted1 operating margin of 10.4% decreased 0.6-percentage points as compared to first quarter 2017, reflecting a 1.2-percentage point impact from lower Equity in income (associated with our share of Fuji Xerox net income), partially offset by improvement in other areas of our business as a result of cost savings, including savings from strategic transformation which more than offset the impact of revenue decline and investments in the business.
Adjusted1 operating margin includes favorable transaction currency of 0.7-percentage points.
Gross Margin
First quarter 2018 gross margin of 39.8% increased by 0.1-percentage points compared to first quarter 2017.
This performance reflected cost productivity savings, along with favorable transaction currency of 0.7-percentage points partially offset by the impact of lower revenues.
First quarter 2018 equipment gross margin of 32.3% increased 1.6-percentage points as compared to first quarter 2017, reflecting benefits from transaction currency and cost productivity savings.
First quarter 2018 post sale gross margin of 41.8% decreased 0.3-percentage points as compared to first quarter 2017 reflecting in part, the impact of lower revenues, partially offset by net productivity savings as well as favorable transaction currency.
Xerox 2018 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
Selling, Administrative and General Expenses (SAG)
SAG as a percentage of revenue of 25.8% was flat compared to first quarter 2017.
SAG of $628 million was $6 million lower than first quarter 2017, including an approximate $19 million unfavorable impact from currency as well as $9 million of accelerated depreciation related to the early termination of a capital lease associated with a surplus facility.
These adverse impacts were more than offset by cost savings, including restructuring savings, partially offset by higher compensation and benefit expense as well as expenses from Global Imaging acquisitions.
Bad debt expense of $13 million was flat compared to first quarter 2017 and remained at less than one percent of receivables.
Restructuring and Related Costs
First quarter 2018 restructuring and related costs of $28 million included $24 million of severance costs related to headcount reductions of approximately 400 employees worldwide and $12 million of lease cancellation charges reflecting continued optimization of our operating locations.
These costs were partially offset by $8 million of net reversals for changes in estimated reserves from prior period initiatives.
First quarter 2018 actions impacted several functional areas, with approximately 55% focused on gross margin improvements and approximately 45% on SAG reductions.
Costs related to professional support services associated with the implementation of the Strategic Transformation program were minimal.
First quarter 2017 restructuring and related costs of $118 million included net restructuring and asset impairment charges of $108 million as well as $10 million of additional costs primarily related to professional support services associated with the implementation of the Strategic Transformation program.
The restructuring reserve balance as of March 31, 2018 for all programs was $85 million, of which $82 million is expected to be spent over the next twelve months.
Refer to Note 11 - Restructuring Programs in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our restructuring programs.
Transaction and Related Costs
During first quarter 2018, we recorded costs of $36 million related to Xerox's planned combination transaction with Fuji Xerox, which is currently halted as a result of a court injunction.
These costs were primarily for third-party investment banking, accounting, legal, consulting and other similar types of services as well as certain employee-related costs associated with the planned combination.
These costs will also include additional expenses expected to be incurred in the second quarter 2018 for third-party legal and other related costs associated with the ongoing litigation with certain shareholders as well as other related matters.
Amortization of Intangible Assets
First quarter 2018 amortization of intangible assets of $12 million was $2 million lower than first quarter 2017.
Worldwide Employment
Worldwide employment was approximately 35,000 as of March 31, 2018 and decreased by approximately 300 from December 31, 2017.
The reduction is primarily due to the impact of restructuring and productivity-related reductions.
Xerox 2018 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
Other Expenses, Net
Non-Financing Interest Expense
First quarter 2018 non-financing interest expense of $31 million was $5 million lower than first quarter 2017.
When combined with financing interest expense (Cost of financing), total interest expense declined by $4 million from first quarter 2017 due to a lower debt balance reflecting debt repayments of approximately $1.3 billion in the first quarter 2017 partially offset by $1.0 billion of new debt issued in the third quarter 2017 to fund, among other things, a $500 million voluntary contribution to our U.S. defined benefit pension plans; the decline also reflected lower average interest rates.
Non-Service Retirement-Related Costs
First quarter 2018 non-service retirement-related costs were $35 million lower than first quarter 2017, primarily driven by lower losses from pension settlements and the favorable impact of higher pension contributions and asset returns in the prior year.
Gains on Sales of Businesses and Assets
First quarter 2018 gains on sales of businesses and assets of $16 million reflected the sale of non-core business assets.
Loss on Early Extinguishment of Debt
During the first quarter of 2017, we recorded a $13 million loss associated with the repayment of $300 million in Senior Notes.
Income Taxes
Our effective tax rate is based on nonrecurring events as well as recurring factors, including the taxation of foreign income.
In addition, our effective tax rate will change based on discrete or other nonrecurring events that may not be predictable.
Xerox 2018 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”)
On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”) was enacted.
The Tax Act significantly revises the U.S. corporate income tax system by, among other things, lowering the U.S. statutory corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% and implementing a territorial tax system that includes a one-time transition tax on deemed repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries.
During the fourth quarter 2017, we recorded an estimated non-cash charge of $400 million reflecting the impact associated with the provisions of the Tax Act based on currently available information.
Our estimated charge incorporates assumptions made based on our current interpretation of the Tax Act as well as currently available information and may change, possibly materially, as we complete our analysis and receive additional clarification and implementation guidance.
Changes in interpretations and assumptions as well as actions we may take as a result of the Tax Act may also impact this estimated charge.
The $400 million estimated provisional charge continues to be our best estimate of the impacts from the Tax Act and no further adjustment of that charge was made in the first quarter 2018.
However, we continue to evaluate the impacts from the Tax Act and likely will do so through the expected filing of our 2017 U.S. Tax Return in the third quarter 2018.
Any adjustments to these provisional amounts will be reported as a component of Income tax expense in the reporting period in which any such adjustments are determined.
Effective January 1, 2018, we became subject to several provisions of the Tax Act including computations related to Global Intangible Low Taxed Income ("GILTI"), Foreign Derived Intangible Income ("FDII"), Base Erosion and Anti-Abuse Tax ("BEAT"), and IRC Section 163(j) interest limitation (Interest Limitation).
Our current estimate for the GILTI, FDII and Interest Limitation rules was determined to be immaterial, however we currently estimate that we are subject to BEAT.
Accordingly, our first quarter 2018 effective tax rate includes the estimated impact for BEAT, which has also been incorporated into our estimated annual effective tax for 2018.
Similar to the provisional charge recorded in the fourth quarter 2017 associated with the enactment of the Tax Act, the estimates for these additional provisions of the Tax Act were made based on our current interpretation of the Tax Act as well as currently available information and may change, as we complete our analysis and receive additional clarification and implementation guidance.
Changes in interpretations and assumptions as well as actions we may take as a result of the Tax Act may also impact these estimates.
Equity in Net (Loss) Income of Unconsolidated Affiliates
Equity in net (loss) income of unconsolidated affiliates primarily reflects our 25% share of Fuji Xerox net loss.
First quarter 2018 equity loss of $68 million included an approximate $28 million charge related to the out-of-period adjustments described in Note 10 - Investments in Affiliates, at Equity in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and in the "Fuji Xerox Adjustments" section above, and was $108 million worse compared to first quarter 2017, including $79 million of higher year-over-year charges related to our share of Fuji Xerox after-tax restructuring and other charges.
Other charges included costs associated with the combination transaction.
We have revised Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates for the prior year period presented throughout this document.
Refer to Note 2 - Correction of Fuji Xerox Misstatement in Prior Period Financial Statements in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information on this revision.
Net Income from Continuing Operations
First quarter 2018 net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox was $23 million, or $0.08 per diluted share.
On an adjusted1 basis, net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox was $178 million, or $0.68 per diluted share.
First quarter 2018 adjustments to net income include restructuring and related costs, amortization of intangible assets, transaction and related costs and non-service retirement-related costs as well as other discrete, unusual or infrequent items as described in our Non-GAAP Financial Measures section.
First quarter 2017 net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox was $46 million, or $0.16 per diluted share.
On an adjusted1 basis, net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox was $176 million, or $0.67 per diluted share.
First quarter 2017 adjustments to net income include restructuring and related costs, amortization of intangible assets, and non-service retirement-related costs as well as other discrete, unusual or infrequent items as described in our Non-GAAP Financial Measures section.
Xerox 2018 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
Refer to Note 18 - Earnings per Share in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share.
Discontinued Operations
Discontinued operations relate to our Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) business, which was separated effective December 31, 2016.
Refer to Note 5 - Divestitures in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding discontinued operations.
Net Income
First quarter 2018 net income attributable to Xerox was $23 million, or $0.08 per diluted share.
First quarter 2017 net income attributable to Xerox was $40 million, or $0.14 per diluted share.
Other Comprehensive Income
First quarter 2018 Other comprehensive income attributable to Xerox was $211 million as compared to $166 million in first quarter 2017.
The $45 million increase is primarily due to a $43 million increase in net translation adjustment gains of $176 million for the first quarter 2018 as compared to $133 million for the first quarter 2017.
The increase reflected a greater strengthening of our major foreign currencies against the U.S. Dollar in first quarter 2018 as compared to the prior year period.
Additionally, 2018 Other comprehensive income included a $9 million year-over-year benefit from higher net unrealized gains on derivatives.
Both the net translation adjustment gains and net unrealized gains were offset by lower net year-over-year changes in defined benefits of $8 million.
Refer to Note 13 - Financial Instruments in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding derivatives, and Note 15 - Employee Benefit Plans in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding net changes in our defined benefit plans.
Capital Resources and Liquidity
As of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, total cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash were $1,474 million and $1,368 million, respectively.
There were no borrowings under our Credit Facility or Commercial Paper Program at March 31, 2018 or December 31, 2017, respectively.
Cash Flow Analysis
Cash Flows from Operating Activities
•$71 million increase in pre-tax income before transaction and related costs, depreciation and amortization, gain on sales of businesses and assets, restructuring charges and defined benefit pension costs.
•$123 million increase from accounts receivable primarily due to the timing of collections and lower revenue, as well as the prior year reclassification of $48 million of collections of deferred proceeds from the sales of accounts receivables to investing.
Xerox 2018 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
•$20 million increase from finance receivables primarily related to a higher level of run-off due to lower originations.
•$73 million decrease primarily related to the prior year settlements of foreign currency derivative contracts.
•$29 million decrease from inventory primarily due to lower equipment sales.
•$15 million decrease from higher pension contributions primarily in the U.K.
•$15 million decrease due to payments for transaction and related costs.
Cash Flows from Investing Activities
•$54 million decrease primarily as a result of the termination of certain accounts receivables sales arrangements in fourth quarter 2017.
•$15 million increase primarily from the sale of non-core business assets in 2018.
•$11 million increase due to no acquisitions in 2018.
•$8 million increase due to lower capital expenditures.
Cash Flows from Financing Activities
•$1,287 million decrease from net debt activity.
2018 reflects payments of $25 million related to the termination of a capital lease obligation and $13 million of bridge facility costs.
2017 reflects payments of $1.0 billion on Senior Notes and net payments of $326 million on the tender and exchange of certain Senior Notes including transaction costs.
•$20 million decrease from common and preferred stock dividends.
•$161 million increase resulting from the prior year final cash adjustment with Conduent.
•$11 million increase due to higher distributions to noncontrolling interests as a result of the timing of payments.
Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash
Refer to Note 6 - Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
Debt and Customer Financing Activities
Finance Assets and Related Debt
Xerox 2018 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
Debt Activity
Bridge Facility
Refer to Note 20 - Fuji Xerox Transaction and Recent Developments in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the bridge facility entered into in connection with the Fuji Xerox Transaction.
Sales of Accounts Receivable
During the fourth quarter 2017 we terminated all accounts receivable sales arrangements in North America and all but one arrangement in Europe.
Refer to Note 7 - Accounts Receivable, Net in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our accounts receivable sales arrangements.
Liquidity and Financial Flexibility
We manage our worldwide liquidity using internal cash management practices, which are subject to (1) the statutes, regulations and practices of each of the local jurisdictions in which we operate, (2) the legal requirements of the agreements to which we are a party and (3) the policies and cooperation of the financial institutions we utilize to maintain and provide cash management services.
Treasury Stock
There were no share repurchases through the first quarter of 2018 or through the date of our filing on May 10, 2018.
Xerox 2018 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
Financial Risk Management
We are required to recognize all derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities at fair value in the balance sheet.
As permitted, certain of these derivative contracts have been designated for hedge accounting treatment.
Certain of our derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are effective as economic hedges.
These derivative contracts are likewise required to be recognized each period at fair value and therefore do result in some level of volatility.
The level of volatility will vary with the type and amount of derivative hedges outstanding, as well as fluctuations in the currency and interest rate markets during the period.
The related cash flow impacts of all of our derivative activities are reflected as cash flows from operating activities.
By their nature, all derivative instruments involve, to varying degrees, elements of market and credit risk.
The market risk associated with these instruments resulting from currency exchange and interest rate movements is expected to offset the market risk of the underlying transactions, assets and liabilities being hedged.
We do not believe there is significant risk of loss in the event of non-performance by the counterparties associated with these instruments because these transactions are executed with a diversified group of major financial institutions.
Further, our policy is to deal with counterparties having a minimum investment grade or better credit rating.
Credit risk is managed through the continuous monitoring of exposures to such counterparties.
The current market events have not required us to materially modify or change our financial risk management strategies with respect to our exposures to interest rate and foreign currency risk.
Refer to Note 13 – Financial Instruments in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion and information on our financial risk management strategies.
Xerox 2018 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We have reported our financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
In addition, we have discussed our financial results using the non-GAAP measures described below.
We believe these non-GAAP measures allow investors to better understand the trends in our business and to better understand and compare our results.
Accordingly, we believe it is necessary to adjust several reported amounts, determined in accordance with GAAP, to exclude the effects of certain items as well as their related income tax effects.
These non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the company’s reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Adjusted Earnings Measures
•Net income and Earnings per share (EPS)
•Effective tax rate
Xerox 2018 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
•2018 - Bridge facility costs relate to the previously disclosed $2.5 billion bridge loan facility, which was entered into in the first quarter 2018 to provide funding for the payment of the expected $2.5 billion dividend associated with the Fuji Xerox combination transaction in the event Xerox does not secure permanent financing.
Since these costs are related to the Fuji Xerox combination transaction, the exclusion was considered consistent with Transaction and related costs discussed above.
•2017 - Loss on early extinguishment of debt in the first quarter of 2017.
•2017 - A benefit from the remeasurement of a tax matter in the first quarter of 2017 that related to a previously adjusted item.
We believe the exclusion of these items allows investors to better understand and analyze the results for the period as compared to prior periods and expected future trends in our business.
Adjusted Operating Income and Margin
Constant Currency (CC)
Refer to "Currency Impact" for a discussion of this measure and its use in our analysis of revenue growth.
Summary
Management believes that all of these non-GAAP financial measures provide an additional means of analyzing the current period’s results against the corresponding prior period’s results.
However, these non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the company’s reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Our non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP measures and should be read only in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Our management regularly uses our supplemental non-GAAP financial measures internally to understand, manage and evaluate our business and make operating decisions.
These non-GAAP measures are among the primary factors management uses in planning for and forecasting future periods.
Compensation of our executives is based in part on the performance of our business based on these non-GAAP measures.
Xerox 2018 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
Xerox 2018 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
ITEM 2 — UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS
During the quarter ended March 31, 2018, Registrant issued the following securities in transactions that were not registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Act”).
d.Exemption from registration under the Act was claimed based upon Section 4(2) as a sale by an issuer not involving a public offering.
d.Exemption from registration under the Act was claimed based upon Section 4(2) as a sale by an issuer not involving a public offering.
There were no repurchases of Xerox Common Stock pursuant to Board authorized share repurchase programs during the first quarter 2018 or through the date of our filing on May 10, 2018.
