ITEM 1 — FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
XEROX CORPORATION
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (UNAUDITED)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
XEROX CORPORATION
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (UNAUDITED)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
XEROX CORPORATION
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (UNAUDITED)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
XEROX CORPORATION
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (UNAUDITED)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
XEROX CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
Note 1 – Basis of Presentation
References herein to “we,” “us,” “our,” the “company” and “Xerox” refer to Xerox Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries unless the context suggests otherwise.
We have prepared the accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with the accounting policies described in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K ("2018 Annual Report") except as noted herein, and the interim reporting requirements of Form 10-Q.
Accordingly, certain information and note disclosures normally included in our annual financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America have been condensed or omitted.
You should read these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our 2018 Annual Report.
In our opinion, all adjustments, which are necessary for a fair statement of financial position, operating results and cash flows for the interim periods presented, have been made.
These adjustments consist of normal recurring items.
Interim results of operations are not necessarily indicative of the results of the full year.
For convenience and ease of reference, we refer to the financial statement caption “Income before Income Taxes and Equity Income” as “pre-tax income.”
Corporate Reorganization
On March 6, 2019, the Xerox Board of Directors approved a reorganization (the “Reorganization”) of the Company's corporate structure into a holding company structure, pursuant to which Xerox Corporation will become a direct, wholly-owned subsidiary of a new holding company.
The purpose of the Reorganization is to provide the Company with strategic, operational and financial flexibility.
The business operations, directors and executive officers of the Company will not change as a result of the Reorganization.
The Reorganization is intended to be implemented via a tax-free transaction for U.S. federal income tax purposes that will result in each holder of Xerox Corporation’s common stock owning the same number of shares of common stock in the new holding company and each holder of Xerox Corporation’s preferred stock owning the same number of shares of preferred stock in the new holding company.
It is expected that the directors and executive officers of Xerox Corporation will also serve in the same capacities for the new holding company and that shares of the new holding company’s common stock will trade on the New York Stock Exchange under Xerox Corporation’s current ticker symbol “XRX.”
The Reorganization is subject to the approval of shareholders, who will be asked to vote on the Reorganization at the annual shareholders meeting scheduled to be held on May 21, 2019, as well as regulatory approval and other customary conditions and is expected to be implemented in mid-2019, though there can be no assurance as to its completion or timing.
Upon the completion of the Reorganization, it is anticipated that the new holding company will become a guarantor of Xerox Corporation's existing Credit Facility.
Shared Services Arrangement with HCL Technologies
In March 2019, as part of Project Own It, we entered into a shared services arrangement with HCL Technologies (HCL) pursuant to which we are outsourcing certain global administrative and support functions, including, among others, selected information technology and finance functions (excluding accounting).
The transition of these functions to HCL is expected to take up to 18 months.
HCL is expected to make certain up-front and ongoing investments in software, tools and other technology to consolidate, optimize and automate the transferred functions with the goal of providing improved service levels and significant cost savings.
The shared services arrangement with HCL includes a total aggregate spending commitment by us of approximately $1.3 billion over the next 7 years.
However, we can terminate the arrangement at any time at our discretion, subject to payment of termination fees that decline over the term or for cause.
The spending commitment excludes restructuring and related costs we are expected to incur in connection with the transition of the contemplated functions - refer to Note 11 - Restructuring Programs for additional information.
The shared services arrangement with HCL is subject to compliance with European works council and employment regulatory requirements.
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
Change in Presentation
During first quarter 2019, we realigned portions of our business to support our new revenue strategy.
This realignment included the combination and consolidation of certain sales units to better service customers consistently across the company.
In connection with that realignment, we changed the classification of revenues and related costs from certain service arrangements to consistently conform the presentation of those amounts among our various business units.
Prior year amounts were also revised as follows to conform to the 2019 presentation.
The revised presentation does not impact Total Revenues, Total Costs and Expenses or Net Income.
Note 2 – Recent Accounting Pronouncements
Financial Instruments - Credit Losses
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments Credit Losses - Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments, with additional updates being issued in 2018.
This update requires measurement and recognition of expected credit losses for financial assets.
The update impacts financial assets and net investment in leases that are not accounted for at fair value through Net Income.
This update is effective for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2020.
We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of ASU 2016-13 on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Intangibles - Internal-Use Software
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-15, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other - Internal Use Software (Subtopic 350-40), Customer's Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That is a Service Contract.
This update aligns the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software (and hosting arrangements that include an internal-use software license).
The update provides criteria for determining which implementation costs to capitalize as an asset related to the service contract and which costs to expense.
The capitalized implementation costs are required to be expensed over the term of the hosting arrangement.
The update also clarifies the presentation requirements for reporting such costs in the entity’s financial statements.
This update is effective for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2020.
We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of ASU 2018-15 on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Leases
On January 1, 2019, we adopted ASU 2016-02, Leases (ASC Topic 842).
This update, as well as additional amendments and targeted improvements issued in 2018 and early 2019, supersedes existing lease accounting guidance found under ASC 840, Leases (“ASC 840”) and requires the recognition of right-to-use assets and lease obligations by lessees for those leases originally classified as operating leases under prior lease guidance.
Effective with the adoption, leases are classified as either finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition.
Short term leases with a term of 12 months or less are not required to be recognized.
The update also requires qualitative and quantitative disclosure of key information regarding the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leasing arrangements to increase transparency and comparability among companies.
The accounting for lessors does not fundamentally change with this update except for changes to conform and align guidance to the lessee guidance, as well as to the revenue recognition guidance in ASU 2014-09.
Some of these conforming changes, such as those related to the definition of lease term and minimum lease payments, resulted in certain lease arrangements, that would have been previously accounted for as operating leases, to be classified and accounted for as sales-type leases with a corresponding up-front recognition of equipment sales revenue.
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
Upon adoption we applied the transition option, whereby prior comparative periods are not retrospectively presented in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
We also elected the package of practical expedients not to reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs and the lessee practical expedient to combine lease and non-lease components for certain asset classes (real estate lease arrangements for offices and warehouses).
Additionally, we made a policy election to not recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases for all asset classes.
We elected the package of practical expedients from both the Lessee and Lessor prospective, to the extent applicable.
Lessee accounting - the adoption of this update resulted in an increase to assets and related liabilities of approximately $385 (approximately $440 undiscounted) primarily related to leases of facilities.
Lessor accounting - the adoption of this update resulted in an increase to equipment sales by approximately $3 in 2019 as compared to 2018.
Refer to Note 3 - Adoption of New Leasing Standard - Xerox as a Lessee and Note 4 - Adoption of New Leasing Standard - Xerox as a Lessor for additional transitional disclosures related to the adoption of this standard.
Financial Instruments - Derivatives
Income Taxes
Other Updates
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
Note 3 – Adoption of New Leasing Standard - Xerox as a Lessee
Refer to Note 2 - Recent Accounting Pronouncements - Leases, for additional information related to the adoption of ASU 2016-02, Leases (ASC Topic 842).
Operating leases are included in Other long-term assets, Accrued expenses and other current liabilities, and Other long-term liabilities in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Finance leases are included in Land, buildings and equipment, net, Accrued expenses and other current liabilities, and Other long-term liabilities in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Operating lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at the commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
Since the implicit rate for most of our leases is not readily determinable, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at the commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments.
The incremental borrowing rate is the rate of interest that we would have to pay to borrow, on a collateralized basis, an amount equal to the lease payments, in a similar economic environment and over a similar term.
The rate is dependent on several factors, including the lease term and currency of the lease payments.
Lease terms used to calculate the present value of lease payments generally do not include any options to extend, renew, or terminate the lease, as we do not have reasonable certainty at lease inception that these options will be exercised.
We generally consider the economic life of our operating lease ROU assets to be comparable to the useful life of similar owned assets.
We have elected the short-term lease exception, therefore operating lease ROU assets and liabilities do not include leases with a lease term of twelve months or less.
Our leases generally do not provide a residual guarantee.
The operating lease ROU asset also excludes lease incentives.
Lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
We have lease agreements with lease and non-lease components.
These components are accounted for separately for vehicle and equipment leases.
We account for the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component for real estate leases of offices and warehouses.
We review the impairment of our ROU assets consistent with the approach applied for our other long-lived assets.
We review the recoverability of our long-lived assets when events or changes in circumstances occur that indicate that the carrying value of the asset may not be recoverable.
The assessment of possible impairment is based on our ability to recover the carrying value of the asset from the expected undiscounted future pre-tax cash flows of the related operations.
We have elected to include the carrying amount of operating lease liabilities in any tested asset group and include the associated operating lease payments in the undiscounted future pre-tax cash flows.
Operating Leases
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
Finance Leases
Xerox has one finance lease for equipment and related infrastructure within an outsourced warehouse supply arrangement in the U.S.
The lease expires in December 2023 and has a remaining lease obligation of $8 as of March 31, 2019 using a discount rate of 4.07%.
Prior Period Disclosures under ASC 840
For the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, operating lease rent expense, net of sublease income, were $147 and $161, respectively.
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
Note 4 – Adoption of New Leasing Standard - Xerox as a Lessor
Refer to Note 2 - Recent Accounting Pronouncements - Leases, for additional information related to the adoption of ASU 2016-02, Leases (ASC Topic 842).
The following represent updated disclosures to our Revenue Recognition policies as a result of the adoption of ASC Topic 842.
The remainder of any fixed payments, as well as the variable payments, are allocated to non-lease elements because the variable consideration for incremental page volume or usage is considered attributable to the delivery of those elements.
The consideration for the non-lease elements is not dependent on the consideration for equipment and vice versa and the consideration for the equipment and services is priced at the appropriate standalone values; therefore, the relative standalone selling price allocation method is not necessary.
The revenue associated with the non-lease elements are normally accounted for as a single performance obligation being delivered in a series with delivery being measured as the usage billed to the customer.
Accordingly, revenue from these agreements is recognized in a manner consistent with the guidance for Maintenance and Services agreements.
We consider the economic life of most of our products to be five years, since this represents the most frequent contractual lease term for our principal products and only a small percentage of our leases are for original terms longer than five years.
There is no significant after-market for our used equipment.
We believe five years is representative of the period during which the equipment is expected to be economically usable, with normal service, for the purpose for which it is intended.
We perform an analysis of the stand-alone selling price of equipment based on cash selling prices during the applicable period.
The cash selling prices are compared to the range of values determined for our leases.
The range of cash selling prices must be reasonably consistent with the lease selling prices in order for us to determine that such lease prices reflects stand-alone value.
Our lease pricing interest rates, which are used in determining customer payments in a bundled lease arrangement, are developed based upon a variety of factors including local prevailing rates in the marketplace and the customer’s credit history, industry and credit class.
We reassess our pricing interest rates quarterly based on changes in the local prevailing rates in the marketplace.
The pricing interest rates generally equal the implicit rates within the leases, as corroborated by our comparisons of cash to lease selling prices noted above.
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
respectively.
Amounts related to property taxes and insurance are not material.
We exclude from variable payments all lessor costs that are explicitly required to be paid directly by a lessee on behalf of the lessor to a third party.
Note 5 – Revenue
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, the incremental direct costs of obtaining a contract of $18 and $17, respectively, and the related amortization was $23 and $24, respectively.
The balance of deferred incremental direct costs net of accumulated amortization at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 was $167 and $172, respectively.
This amount is expected to be amortized over its estimated period of benefit, which we currently estimate to be approximately four years.
We may also incur costs associated with our services arrangements to generate or enhance resources and assets that will be used to satisfy our future performance obligations included in these arrangements.
These costs are considered contract fulfillment costs and are amortized over the contractual service period of the arrangement to cost of services.
In addition, we also provide inducements to certain customers in various forms, including contractual credits, which are capitalized and amortized as a reduction of revenue over the term of the contract.
As of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 amounts deferred associated with contract fulfillment costs and inducements were $12 and $12, respectively, The related amortization for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 was $1 and $1, respectively .
Note 6 – Supplementary Financial Information
Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash
Restricted cash primarily relates to escrow cash deposits made in Brazil associated with ongoing litigation.
As more fully discussed in Note 20 - Contingencies and Litigation, various litigation matters in Brazil require us to make cash deposits to escrow as a condition of continuing the litigation.
Restricted cash amounts are classified in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets based on when the cash is expected to be contractually or judicially released.
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
Supplemental Cash Flow Information
Note 7 – Accounts Receivable, Net
Amounts to be invoiced in the subsequent quarter for current services provided are included in amounts accrued.
We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and adjust credit limits based upon customer payment history and current creditworthiness.
The allowance for uncollectible accounts receivable is determined principally on the basis of past collection experience as well as consideration of current economic conditions and changes in our customer collection trends.
Accounts Receivable Sales Arrangements
Accounts receivable sales arrangements are utilized in the normal course of business as part of our cash and liquidity management.
The accounts receivable sold are generally short-term trade receivables with payment due dates of less than 60 days.
We have one facility in Europe that enables us to sell accounts receivable associated with our distributor network on an ongoing basis, without recourse.
Under this arrangement, we sell our entire interest in the related accounts receivable for cash and no portion of the payment is held back or deferred by the purchaser.
Of the accounts receivable sold and derecognized from our balance sheet, $124 and $131 remained uncollected as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
Note 8 - Finance Receivables, Net
Finance receivables include sales-type leases and installment loans arising from the marketing of our equipment.
These receivables are typically collateralized by a security interest in the underlying assets.
Amounts disclosed below at December 31, 2018 were accounted for under ASC 840, Leases, which was superseded by ASC 842, Leases, adopted on January 1, 2019.
Differences upon adoption were not material.
Refer to Note 2 - Recent Accounting Pronouncements for additional information.
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
Finance Receivables – Allowance for Credit Losses and Credit Quality
Finance receivables include sales-type leases, direct financing leases and installment loans arising from the marketing of our equipment.
Our finance receivable portfolios are primarily in the U.S., Canada and Europe.
We generally establish customer credit limits and estimate the allowance for credit losses on a country or geographic basis.
Our policy and methodology used to establish our allowance for doubtful accounts has been consistently applied over all periods presented.
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
Note 9 – Inventories and Equipment on Operating Leases, Net
The transfer of equipment from our inventories to equipment subject to an operating lease is presented in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in the operating activities section.
Equipment on operating leases and similar arrangements consists of our equipment rented to customers and depreciated to estimated salvage value at the end of the lease term.
Amounts disclosed below at December 31, 2018 were accounted for under ASC 840, Leases, which was superseded by ASC 842, Leases, adopted on January 1, 2019.
Differences upon adoption were not material.
Refer to Note 2 - Recent Accounting Pronouncements for additional information.
Total contingent rentals on operating leases, consisting principally of usage charges in excess of minimum contracted amounts, were $27 and $30, for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Note 10 – Investment in Affiliates, at Equity
Fuji Xerox
Equity in net income (loss) of Fuji Xerox is affected by certain adjustments required to reflect the deferral of profit associated with intercompany sales.
These adjustments may result in recorded equity income (loss) that is different from that implied by our 25% ownership interest.
In addition, the Equity in net income (loss) of Fuji Xerox for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 includes after-tax restructuring and other charges of $12 and $79, respectively.
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
Note 11 – Restructuring Programs
We engage in restructuring actions, including Project Own It, as well as other transformation efforts in order to reduce our cost structure, realign it to the changing nature of our business and to achieve operating efficiencies through a number of opportunities including reduction of our real estate footprint.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, we recorded net restructuring and asset impairment charges of $54, which included $12 of severance costs related to headcount reductions of approximately 150 employees worldwide, $14 of other contractual termination costs and $36 of asset impairment charges.
These costs were partially offset by $8 of net reversals, primarily resulting from changes in estimated reserves from prior period initiatives.
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
The remaining liability associated with restructuring related costs was $48 at March 31, 2019.
Note 12 – Debt
Interest Expense and Income
Note 13 – Financial Instruments
Interest Rate Risk Management
We use interest rate swap agreements to manage our interest rate exposure and to achieve a desired proportion of variable and fixed rate debt.
These derivatives may be designated as fair value hedges or cash flow hedges depending on the nature of the risk being hedged.
Fair Value Hedges
Foreign Exchange Risk Management
•Foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities
•Forecasted purchases and sales in foreign currency
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
At March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, we had outstanding forward exchange and purchased option contracts with gross notional values of $954 and $1,103 respectively, with terms of less than 12 months.
Approximately 76% of the contracts at March 31, 2019 mature within three months, 12% mature in three to six months and 12% in six to twelve months.
The associated currency exposures being hedged at March 31, 2019 were materially consistent with our year-end currency exposures.
There has not been any material change in our hedging strategy.
Foreign Currency Cash Flow Hedges
We designate a portion of our foreign currency derivative contracts as cash flow hedges of our foreign currency-denominated inventory purchases, sales and expenses.
The net asset fair value of these contracts were $5 and $8 as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.
Summary of Derivative Instruments Fair Value
Summary of Derivative Instruments Gains (Losses)
Derivative gains and (losses) affect the income statement based on whether such derivatives are designated as hedges of underlying exposures.
The following is a summary of derivative gains (losses).
Designated Derivative Instruments Gains (Losses)
During the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, no amount of ineffectiveness was recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income for these designated cash flow hedges and all components of each derivative’s gain or (loss) were included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness.
In addition, no amount was recorded for an underlying exposure that did not occur or was not expected to occur.
As of March 31, 2019, a net after-tax gain of $6 was recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss associated with our cash flow hedging activity.
The entire balance is expected to be reclassified into Net income within the next 12 months, providing an offsetting economic impact against the underlying anticipated transactions.
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
Non-Designated Derivative Instruments Gains (Losses)
Non-designated derivative instruments are primarily instruments used to hedge foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities.
They are not designated as hedges since there is a natural offset for the re-measurement of the underlying foreign currency-denominated asset or liability.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 currency (losses) gains, net were $(2) and $2, respectively.
Net currency gains and losses include the mark-to-market adjustments of the derivatives not designated as hedging instruments and the related cost of those derivatives as well as the remeasurement of foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities and are included in Other expenses, net.
Note 14 – Fair Value of Financial Assets and Liabilities
The following table represents assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis.
The basis for the measurement at fair value in all cases is Level 2 – Significant Other Observable Inputs.
We utilize the income approach to measure the fair value for our derivative assets and liabilities.
The income approach uses pricing models that rely on market observable inputs such as yield curves, currency exchange rates and forward prices, and therefore are classified as Level 2.
Fair value for our deferred compensation plan investments in mutual funds is based on quoted market prices for those funds.
Fair value for deferred compensation plan liabilities is based on the fair value of investments corresponding to employees’ investment selections.
Summary of Other Financial Assets and Liabilities
The fair value amounts for Cash and cash equivalents and Accounts receivable, net, approximate carrying amounts due to the short maturities of these instruments.
The fair value of Short-term debt, including the current portion of long-term debt, and Long-term debt was estimated based on the current rates offered to us for debt of similar maturities (Level 2).
The difference between the fair value and the carrying value represents the theoretical net premium or discount we would pay or receive to retire all debt at such date.
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
Note 15 – Employee Benefit Plans
Contributions
The following table summarizes cash contributions to our defined benefit pension plans and retiree health benefit plans.
There are no mandatory contributions required in 2019 for our U.S. tax-qualified defined benefit plans to meet the minimum funding requirements.
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
Note 16 – Shareholders’ Equity
Treasury Stock
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
Note 17 – Stock-Based Compensation
We have a long-term incentive plan whereby eligible employees may be granted restricted stock units (RSUs), performance shares (PSs) and stock options (SOs).
We grant stock-based compensation awards in order to continue to attract and retain qualified employees and to better align employees' interests with those of our shareholders.
Each of these awards is subject to settlement with newly issued shares of our common stock.
The board of directors (the "Board") recently approved a change in the timing of our annual grant of awards from April to January to fully align the grant date with the underlying performance period related to PSs.
The following is a summary of the program design and performance metrics effective for our January 2019 grant and grants thereafter, as approved by the Board.
Stock options were not awarded under the 2019 grant.
Restricted Stock Units
Performance Shares
Performance-Based Component
PSs vest contingent upon meeting pre-determined cumulative performance metrics.
The fair value of our PSs is based upon the grant-date market price.
Compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on management's estimate of the number of shares expected to vest.
If the cumulative three-year actual results exceed the stated targets, all plan participants have the potential to earn additional shares of common stock up to a maximum overachievement of 100% of the original grant.
If the stated targets are not met, any recognized compensation cost would be reversed.
Shares granted through March 31, 2019 under this program were 695, with a corresponding weighted average grant date fair value of $22.30 per share.
Market-Based Component
The Absolute Share Price metric is based on Xerox's average closing price for the last twenty trading days of the performance period, inclusive of dividends during the three-year performance period.
Payout for this portion of the PS will be determined based on total return targets approved by the compensation committee of the Board.
Since this portion of the PS award represents a market condition, a Monte Carlo simulation was used to determine the grant-date fair value.
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
Compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the vesting period based on the fair value determined by the Monte Carlo simulation and, except in cases of employee forfeiture, cannot be reversed regardless of performance.
Shares granted through March 31, 2019 under this program were 695.
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
Note 18 - Other Comprehensive Income
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss (AOCL)
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
Note 19 – Earnings per Share
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
Note 20 – Contingencies and Litigation
Legal Matters
Brazil Contingencies
With respect to the unreserved tax contingency, the majority has been assessed by management as being remote as to the likelihood of ultimately resulting in a loss to the Company.
In connection with the above proceedings, customary local regulations may require us to make escrow cash deposits or post other security of up to half of the total amount in dispute, as well as, additional surety bonds and letters of credit, which include associated indexation.
Generally, any escrowed amounts would be refundable and any liens on assets would be removed to the extent the matters are resolved in our favor.
We are also involved in certain disputes with contract and former employees.
Exposures related to labor matters are not material to the financial statements as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018.
We routinely assess all these matters as to the probability of ultimately incurring a liability against our Brazilian operations and record our best estimate of the ultimate loss in situations where we assess the likelihood of an ultimate loss as probable.
Litigation Against the Company
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
One of the Fuji Transaction Shareholder Lawsuits was brought by Darwin Deason, a Xerox shareholder ("Deason I").
Another complaint was filed by Mr. Deason against Xerox and its directors in the same Court on March 2, 2018 ("Deason II") alleging that defendants breached their fiduciary duties by refusing Mr. Deason’s request for a waiver of the deadline for nomination of a new slate of Xerox directors.
In Deason II, Mr. Deason sought to enjoin Xerox and its directors from enforcing Xerox’s advance notice by-laws, thereby allowing Mr. Deason to proceed with the nominations, as well as costs, fees, and other relief.
On April 27, 2018, the Court issued decisions and orders granting plaintiffs’ preliminary injunction motions, which (i) enjoined Xerox from “taking any further action to consummate the change of control transaction between Xerox and Fuji that was announced on January 31, 2018 pending a final determination of the claims asserted in the underlying action;” (ii) enjoined Xerox from enforcing its advance notice bylaw provision requiring shareholders to nominate directors for election at the 2018 annual shareholder meeting by December 11, 2017; and (iii) required Xerox to waive such advance notice bylaw provision to permit the noticing of a slate of director nominees for election at the 2018 annual shareholder meeting, and denying defendants’ motions to dismiss.
On May 1, 2018, Xerox entered into a Director Appointment, Nomination and Settlement Agreement (the “Initial Settlement Agreement”) with Mr. Deason and Carl C. Icahn and certain of his affiliates who were also Xerox shareholders (the "Icahn Group"), among others, that would have resolved Deason I, Deason II and the pending proxy contest in connection with Xerox’s 2018 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.
The Initial Settlement Agreement expired by its terms on May 3, 2018 without becoming effective.
On May 7, 2018, defendants filed with the Supreme Court of the State of New York, Appellate Division, First Judicial Department, notices of appeal of, and motions to stay pending appeal, the lower Court’s decision and order.
Defendants also moved the appellate court for interim relief ordering that the appeal be heard on an expedited basis.
At a hearing before the appellate court on May 7, 2018, the appellate court ruled that the appeals would be heard on an expedited basis and granted a partial interim stay allowing Xerox and Fujifilm to take steps to seek regulatory approvals related to the Fuji Transaction pending a ruling from the appellate court on defendants’ motions to stay pending appeal.
On May 13, 2018, a second Director Appointment, Nomination and Settlement Agreement (the "Final Settlement Agreement") with respect to Deason I, Deason II and the pending proxy contest in connection with Xerox's 2018 Annual Meeting of Shareholders that was initiated by the Icahn Group was signed on behalf of Mr. Deason, the Icahn Group and all defendants except Fujifilm, and a memorandum of understanding regarding settlement of the putative class case was signed by all defendants except Fujifilm.
Pursuant to the settlements, the settling defendants withdrew their appeal and motion to stay in Deason I and Deason II.
The settling defendants also withdrew their motion to stay in the putative class case.
The Court entered a stipulation of discontinuance as to the settling parties in Deason II on May 14, 2018, and agreed on June 22, 2018 to do the same in Deason I.
On June 14, 2018, Fujifilm filed answers in Deason I and the putative class case, along with cross-claims against the members of the Xerox Board (as constituted before May 13, 2018) and a third-party complaint against Xerox director Jonathan Christodoro, seeking contribution for any potential award against Fujifilm for aiding and abetting purported breaches of fiduciary duties.
On June 19, 2018, the putative class plaintiffs filed a motion for preliminary approval of a stipulation of settlement that would resolve the claims asserted by the plaintiffs in the putative class case against all defendants, other than Fujifilm.
Carmen Ribbe, the plaintiff in the below derivative action, and Fujifilm filed oppositions to the motion on July 10, 2018.
On June 22, 2018, the Court entered an order denying a joint motion by the putative class plaintiffs and the settling defendants to dissolve the injunction in the putative class case as against the settling defendants, and entered an order denying Fujifilm’s motion to dissolve the injunctions in the putative class case and Deason I in their entirety.
On July 16, 2018, the Court held a hearing concerning the putative class plaintiffs’ motion for preliminary approval of the settlement in the putative class case.
The Court indicated that it was not inclined to consider motions for approval of the settlement prior to considering whether the putative class should be certified.
On August 2, 2018, the Appellate Division entered orders recognizing the Xerox defendants’ withdrawal of their appeal in the Deason cases and denying all appellants’ motions to stay pending determination of appeals in the Deason and putative class cases.
On August 2, 2018, the Appellate Division entered orders (i) at their request, deeming withdrawn the Xerox defendants’ appeal and motion to stay in the Deason cases; (ii) upon their request, deeming withdrawn the Xerox defendants’ motion to stay, pending determination of appeal, the putative class case; and (iii) denying Fujifilm’s motion to stay pending determination of its appeals in the Deason and putative case cases.
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
On September 21, 2018, putative class plaintiffs filed a motion for certification of a settlement class and a motion to transmit notice of the proposed settlement to the proposed class.
On October 17, 2018, derivative plaintiff Carmen Ribbe and Fujifilm filed oppositions to the putative class plaintiffs’ motion to transmit notice to the proposed class.
The class has not yet been certified, and preliminary approval has not been granted.
The Appellate Division heard oral argument on September 25, 2018 on Fujifilm’s appeal of the Court’s decision.
On October 16, 2018, the Appellate Division entered a decision and order reversing the Court’s rulings, ordering that the claims brought against Fujifilm in the cases by Mr. Deason and the purported class be dismissed, and further ordering that the preliminary injunction of the proposed Fuji Transaction be dissolved (the “Appellate Decision and Order”).
On November 15, 2018, the putative class plaintiffs filed with the Appellate Division a motion seeking the opportunity to reargue Fujifilm’s appeal or, in the alternative, for leave to appeal the Appellate Decision and Order to the New York State Court of Appeals.
On December 6, 2018, pursuant to the Appellate Decision and Order, the Court entered a judgment dismissing the complaints against Fujifilm in Deason I and the putative class case.
The Court further issued orders denying the putative class plaintiffs’ motion for class certification, without prejudice to renewing the motion after the outcome of any appeals of the Appellate Decision and Order.
On January 8, 2019, the Court entered an order staying all further proceedings in Deason I and the putative class case until thirty days after exhaustion of appeals, including any appeals to the New York State Court of Appeals, of the Appellate Decision and Order.
On January 9, 2019, the Court entered an order denying the putative class plaintiffs’ motion to transmit notice to the proposed class, without prejudice to renewal of their motion at a later time.
On October 31, 2018 and January 3, 2019, respectively, Xerox and the Xerox director defendants in the putative class case filed with the Appellate Division a request and motion seeking an extension, until after any decision regarding approval of settlement of the putative class action, of the deadline by which to perfect their appeal of the Court’s April 27, 2018 decision and order.
On February 21, 2019, the Appellate Division issued an order denying the putative class plaintiffs’ motion seeking to reargue Fujifilm’s appeal or, in the alternative, for leave to appeal the Appellate Decision and Order to the New York State Court of Appeals.
No further notice of appeal was filed, and the Appellate Decision and Order became final and unappealable on March 26, 2019.
Xerox will vigorously defend these lawsuits to the extent that the proceedings continue as to Xerox.
At this time, however, it is premature to make any conclusion regarding the probability of incurring material losses in these lawsuits.
Should developments cause a change in our determination as to an unfavorable outcome, or result in a final adverse judgment or settlement, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position in the period in which such change in determination, judgment, or settlement occurs.
On April 11, 2019, Carmen Ribbe filed a putative derivative and class action stockholder complaint in the Supreme Court of the State of New York for New York County, naming as defendants Xerox, current Board members Gregory Q.
Brown, Joseph J. Echevarria, Cheryl Gordon Krongard, Sara Martinez Tucker, Keith Cozza, Giovanni G. Visentin, Jonathan Christodoro, Nicholas Graziano, and A. Scott Letier, and former Board members Jeffrey Jacobson, William Curt Hunter, Robert J. Keegan, Charles Prince, Ann N. Reese, and Stephen H. Rusckowski.
Plaintiff previously filed a putative shareholder derivative lawsuit on May 24, 2018 against certain of these defendants, as well as others, in the same court; that lawsuit was dismissed without prejudice on December 6, 2018.
The new complaint includes putative derivative claims on behalf of Xerox for breach of fiduciary duty against the members of the Xerox Board who approved Xerox’s entry into agreements to settle the Deason and In re Xerox Corporation Consolidated Shareholder Litigation (“XCCSL”) actions (described above).
Plaintiff alleges that the settlements ceded control of the Board and the Company to Darwin Deason and Carl C. Icahn without a vote by, or compensation to, other Xerox stockholders; improperly provided certain benefits and releases to the resigning and continuing directors; and subjected Xerox to potential breach of contract damages in an action by Fuji relating to Xerox’s termination of the proposed Fuji Transaction.
Plaintiff also alleges that the current Board members breached their fiduciary duties by allegedly rejecting plaintiff’s January 14, 2019 shareholder demand on the Board to remedy harms arising from entry into the Deason and XCCSL settlements.
The new complaint further includes direct claims for breach of fiduciary duty on behalf of a putative class of current Xerox stockholders other than Mr. Deason, Mr. Icahn, and their affiliated entities (the “Ribbe Class”) against the defendants for causing Xerox to enter into the Deason and XCCSL settlements, which plaintiff alleges perpetuated control of Xerox by Mr. Icahn and Mr. Deason and denied the voting franchise of Xerox shareholders.
Among other things, plaintiff seeks damages in an unspecified amount for the alleged fiduciary breaches in favor of Xerox against defendants jointly and severally; rescission or reformation of the Deason and XCCSL settlements; restitution of funds
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
paid to the resigning directors under the Deason settlement; an injunction against defendants’ engaging in the alleged wrongful practices and equitable relief affording the putative Ribbe Class the ability to determine the composition of the Board; costs and attorneys’ fees; and other further relief as the Court may deem proper.
Xerox will vigorously defend against this matter.
At this time, it is premature to make any conclusion regarding the probability of incurring material losses in this litigation.
Should developments cause a change in our determination as to an unfavorable outcome, or result in a final adverse judgment or settlement, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position in the period in which such change in determination, judgment, or settlement occurs.
At a conference on September 24, 2018, the Court stayed all discovery pending resolution of Xerox’s motion to dismiss.
Xerox filed its motion to dismiss on October 1, 2018.
On February 22, 2019, following oral argument, the Court denied the motion to dismiss.
On March 12, 2019, the Court entered a scheduling order setting various case deadlines.
Xerox filed its answer denying the claims on March 15, 2019.
Discovery has commenced.
Xerox believes the lawsuit is meritless and will vigorously defend it.
At this time, however, it is premature to make any conclusion regarding the probability of incurring material losses in this litigation.
Should developments cause a change in our determination as to an unfavorable outcome, or result in a final adverse judgment or settlement, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position in the period in which such change in determination, judgment, or settlement occurs.
On May 9, 2014, the State of Texas, via the Texas Office of Attorney General (the “State”), filed a lawsuit in the 53rd Judicial District Court of Travis County, Texas.
The lawsuit alleged that Xerox Corporation, Xerox State Healthcare, LLC and ACS State Healthcare (collectively “the Defendants”) violated the Texas Medicaid Fraud Prevention Act in the administration of ACS State Healthcare’s contract with the Texas Department of Health and Human Services (“HHSC”).
Xerox Corporation provided a guaranty of contractual performance with respect to the ACS State Healthcare contract.
The State alleged that the Defendants made false representations of material facts regarding the processes, procedures, implementation and results regarding the prior authorization of orthodontic claims.
The State sought recovery of actual damages, two times the amount of any overpayments made as a result of alleged unlawful acts, civil penalties, pre- and post-judgment interest and all costs and attorneys’ fees.
The State referenced the amount in controversy as exceeding hundreds of millions of dollars.
The Defendants filed their Answer in June 2014 denying all allegations.
In August 2017, the State of Texas filed a Second Amended Petition, which made substantially similar allegations and sought similar remedies as the original lawsuit.
On October 23, 2017, Xerox Corporation filed a Motion for Summary Judgment seeking judgment in Xerox's favor on all claims against it.
On July 2, 2018, the Court denied the State of Texas’ motion for a determination of the adequacy of its pleadings as to Xerox or in the alternative, seeking leave to amend its petition to bring additional claims against Xerox.
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
2010.
Xerox is not required to make any payment under the Agreement.
Pursuant to the terms of the Agreement, the Conduent Entities will pay the State $235.9 payable in installments through no later than July 31, 2021.
Also pursuant to the Agreement, all proceedings in the lawsuit are suspended, as confirmed by an order issued by the Court on February 19, 2019, and the State and the HHSC will dismiss the lawsuit with prejudice and release all of the defendants from all of the State’s claims after the settlement amount has been paid in full.
No defendant made any admission of liability or wrongdoing in entering into the Agreement.
This matter is a “Conduent Liability”, as defined in the Separation and Distribution Agreement dated as of December 31, 2016 between Xerox Corporation and Conduent Incorporated, for which Conduent is required to indemnify Xerox.
Conduent is entitled to direct the defense of this matter.
On October 21, 2016, the Oklahoma Firefighters Pension and Retirement System (“plaintiff”) filed a purported securities class action complaint against Xerox Corporation, Ursula Burns, Luca Maestri, Kathryn Mikells, Lynn Blodgett and Robert Zapfel (collectively, “defendants”) in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York on behalf of the plaintiff and certain purchasers or acquirers of Xerox common stock.
The complaint alleged that defendants made false and misleading statements, in violation of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act and SEC Rule 10b-5, relating to the operations and prospects of Xerox’s Health Enterprise business.
Plaintiff sought, among other things, unspecified monetary damages and attorneys’ fees.
Other, similar lawsuits may follow.
On December 28, 2016, the Court entered a stipulated order setting out a schedule for amendment of the complaint and for defendants’ response to that complaint following the Court’s appointment of lead plaintiff under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
On February 28, 2017, the Court issued an opinion and order appointing the Arkansas Public Employees Retirement System ("APERS") as lead plaintiff.
On May 1, 2017, APERS filed an amended complaint, alleging substantially similar claims and seeking substantially similar relief, but adding David Bywater and Mary Scanlon as defendants.
On June 30, 2017, defendants moved to dismiss the amended complaint, and the motions were fully briefed on October 13, 2017.
On March 20, 2018, the Court entered an opinion and order granting the motions, and on March 23, 2018, the Court entered a judgment of dismissal and closed the case.
On April 20, 2018, plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, and the appeal was fully briefed as of November 28, 2018.
The Second Circuit has set oral argument for May 31, 2019.
Xerox will vigorously defend against this matter.
At this time, it is premature to make any conclusion regarding the probability of incurring material losses in this litigation.
Should developments cause a change in our determination as to an unfavorable outcome, or result in a final adverse judgment or settlement, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position in the period in which such change in determination, judgment, or settlement occurs.
Guarantees
We have issued or provided approximately $331 of guarantees as of March 31, 2019 in the form of letters of credit or surety bonds issued to i) support certain insurance programs; ii) support our obligations related to the Brazil contingencies; and iii) support certain contracts, primarily with public sector customers, which require us to provide a surety bond as a guarantee of our performance of contractual obligations.
In general, we would only be liable for the amount of these guarantees in the event we defaulted in performing our obligations under each contract; the probability of which we believe is remote.
We believe that our capacity in the surety markets as well as under various credit arrangements (including our Credit Facility) is sufficient to allow us to respond to future requests for proposals that require such credit support.
Indemnifications
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
ITEM 1 — LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
The information set forth under Note 20 – Contingencies and Litigation in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q is incorporated by reference in answer to this item.
ITEM 1A — RISK FACTORS
Reference is made to the Risk Factors set forth in Part I, Item 1A of our 2018 Annual Report.
