ITEM 2 — MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Throughout this document, references to “we,” “our,” the “Company,” and “Xerox” refer to Xerox Corporation and its subsidiaries.
References to “Xerox Corporation” refer to the stand-alone parent company and do not include its subsidiaries.
Currency Impact
To understand the trends in our business, we believe that it is helpful to analyze the impact of changes in the translation of foreign currencies into U.S.
Dollars on revenue and expenses.
We refer to this analysis as "constant currency", “currency impact” or “the impact from currency.” This impact is calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period's currency translation rate.
This impact is calculated for all countries where the functional currency is the local country currency.
We do not hedge the translation effect of revenues or expenses denominated in currencies where the local currency is the functional currency.
Management believes the constant currency measure provides investors an additional perspective on revenue trends.
Currency impact can be determined as the difference between actual growth rates and constant currency growth rates.
Overview
Second Quarter 2019 Review
Total revenue of $2.29 billion for second quarter 2019 declined 8.8% from second quarter 2018, including a 1.6-percentage point unfavorable impact from currency.
The decrease in revenue reflected a decrease of 8.4% in Post sale revenue, including a 1.8-percentage point unfavorable impact from currency, and a decrease of 10.2% in Equipment sales revenue, including a 1.2-percentage point unfavorable impact from currency.
The decline in Post sale revenue reflected the continuing trends of lower page volumes, an ongoing competitive price environment and a lower population of devices, as well as lower transactional Post sale revenue from unbundled supplies from our developing market regions and our indirect channels in the U.S., as well as from paper in our developing market sales units.
The decline in Equipment sales primarily reflected continued price declines and lower sales of our office-centric devices (entry and mid-range products) partially affected by a challenging comparison against the period of highest equipment revenue growth in the prior year.
Lower revenues from our mid-range ConnectKey devices also reflected the continued impact of organizational changes within our XBS sales organization as part of Project Own It.
Total revenue of $4.50 billion for the six months ended June 30, 2019 declined 9.1% as compared to the prior year period, including a 2.0-percentage point unfavorable impact from currency.
The decrease in revenue reflected a decrease of 8.8% in Post sale revenue, including a 2.1-percentage point unfavorable impact from currency, and a decrease of 10.2% in Equipment sales revenue, including a 1.8-percentage point unfavorable impact from currency.
The decline in Post sale revenue reflected the continuing trends of lower page volumes, an ongoing competitive price environment and a lower population of devices, as well as lower transactional Post sale revenue from unbundled supplies and paper in our developing market sales units.
The decline in Equipment sales primarily reflected lower revenues from our mid-range products, which were impacted by organizational changes within XBS sales organization, as we transitioned a significant number of accounts from U.S. Enterprise in the first half of 2019.
Second quarter 2019 Net income attributable to Xerox increased $69 million as compared to second quarter 2018 primarily due to lower Transaction and related costs, net and higher Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates.
In addition, lower revenues were offset by the continued benefits of cost savings and productivity improvements from our Project Own It transformation actions.
Second quarter 2019 Adjusted1 net income attributable to Xerox increased
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
$20 million as compared to second quarter 2018.
The increase was primarily related to increased operating profits reflecting the continued benefits of cost savings and productivity improvements from Project Own It, which offset the pace of revenue decline, as well as higher Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates.
Net income attributable to Xerox for the six months ended June 30, 2019 increased $179 million as compared to the prior year period primarily due to higher Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates as well as lower Transaction and related costs, net and Income tax expense.
The increase also reflected the continued benefits of cost savings and productivity improvements from our Project Own It transformation actions, which offset the impact of lower revenues.
These benefits were partially offset by higher Restructuring and related costs.
Adjusted1 net income attributable to Xerox for the six months ended June 30, 2019 increased $61 million as compared to the prior year period.
The increase was primarily related to higher Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates as well as increased operating profits reflecting the continued benefits of cost savings and productivity improvements from Project Own It, which more than offset the decline in revenues.
Cash flows provided by operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2019 were $539 million, as compared to $451 million in the prior year period primarily reflecting increased dividends from equity investments and lower cash payments for Transaction and related costs.
These benefits were partially offset by higher payments for restructuring related costs and a use of cash for working capital2.
Cash used in investing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2019 was $72 million including capital expenditures of $31 million and acquisitions of $42 million.
Cash used in financing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2019 was $846 million reflecting payments of $406 million on Senior Notes, $300 million for share repurchases and dividend payments of $122 million.
Our rate of revenue decline in the second quarter 2019 was impacted by organizational changes, primarily in North America.
While this impact gradually mitigated during the quarter, it still remains and we recognize that the implementation of our strategic initiatives to transform the company for long-term sustainability (including offering, go-to-market, sales coverage and cost structure changes) will continue to impact our revenues in the near term.
As a result, we now expect our revenues to decline approximately 6% for the year, excluding an approximate 1.0-percentage point unfavorable impact from currency, compared to our previous guidance of an approximate 5% decline, excluding an approximate 1.0-percentage point unfavorable impact from currency.
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
Financial Review
Revenues
CC - See "Currency Impact" section for a description of Constant Currency.
Post sale revenue
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
Equipment sales revenue
CC - See "Currency Impact" section for a description of Constant Currency.
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
Total Installs
Installs reflect new placement of devices only.
Revenue associated with equipment installations may be reflected up-front in Equipment sales or over time either through rental income or as part of our Xerox Services revenues (which are both reported within our post sale revenues), depending on the terms and conditions of our agreements with customers.
Installs include activity from Xerox Services and Xerox-branded products shipped to our XBS sales unit.
Detail by product group (see Geographic Sales Channels and Product and Offerings Definitions) is shown below.
•12% decrease in color multifunction devices reflecting lower installs of ConnectKey devices from our indirect channels in the U.S. and low-end devices from EMEA.
•1% increase in black-and-white multifunction devices driven by higher activity from our EMEA organization, including low-end devices in developing market regions.
•12% decrease in mid-range color installs reflecting lower installs of ConnectKey devices.
The decrease was significantly impacted by lower activity as a result of the transitional impact associated with recently implemented organizational changes in our XBS sales organization (as part of our Project Own It transformation actions), which included the transitioning of accounts to implement coverage changes, consolidation of real estate locations and the reduction of management layers.
The decrease also reflected lower activity and a lack of large deals in EMEA, as well as a challenging comparison against the period with the highest activity growth in the prior year, partially due to the timing of our ConnectKey product launch.
•9% decrease in mid-range black-and-white reflecting lower installs of ConnectKey devices primarily from EMEA.
The decline also reflected market trends
•1% increase in high-end color installs reflecting continued demand for our Iridesse production press in EMEA and higher installs of our inkjet cut-sheet systems.
Lower activity from iGen and Versant production systems provided a partial headwind.
•33% decrease in high-end black-and-white systems reflecting market trends.
•3% decrease in color multifunction devices reflecting lower installs of ConnectKey devices and low-end devices from EMEA, partially offset by higher activity in our indirect channels in the U.S.
•Installs of black-and-white multifunction devices were flat reflecting higher installs of ConnectKey devices, as well as higher activity in our indirect channels in the U.S, offset by lower activity from our EMEA organization, including low-end devices in developing market regions.
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
•10% decrease in mid-range color installs reflecting lower installs of ConnectKey devices.
The decrease was significantly impacted by lower activity as a result of the transitional impact associated with recently implemented organizational changes in our XBS sales organization (as part of our Project Own It transformation actions), which included the transitioning of accounts to implement coverage changes, consolidation of real estate locations and the reduction of management layers.
The decrease also reflected lower activity in EMEA.
•13% decrease in mid-range black-and-white reflecting lower installs of ConnectKey devices primarily from indirect channels in the U.S.
The decline also reflected market trends
•6% decrease in high-end color installs reflecting lower activity from iGen and Versant production systems, partially offset by continued strong demand for our Iridesse production press in EMEA and higher installs of our inkjet cut-sheet systems.
•22% decrease in high-end black-and-white systems reflecting market trends.
Geographic Sales Channels and Product and Offerings Definitions
•Americas, which includes our sales channels in the U.S. and Canada, as well as Mexico, and Central and South America.
•EMEA, which includes our sales channels in Europe, the Middle East, Africa and India.
•Other, primarily includes our OEM business, as well as sales to and royalties from Fuji Xerox, and our licensing revenue.
•“Entry”, which includes A4 devices and desktop printers.
Prices in this product group can range from approximately $150 to $3,000.
•“Mid-Range”, which includes A3 Office and Light Production devices that generally serve workgroup environments in mid to large enterprises.
Prices in this product group can range from approximately $2,000 to $75,000+.
•“High-End”, which includes production printing and publishing systems that generally serve the graphic communications marketplace and large enterprises.
Prices for these systems can range from approximately $30,000 to $1,000,000+.
•Xerox Services, formerly known as Managed Document Services (MDS), which includes solutions and services that span from managing print to automating processes to managing content.
Our primary offerings are Intelligent Workplace Services (IWS), which is our rebranded Managed Print Services, as well as Digital and Cloud Print Services (including centralized print services).
Xerox Services also includes Communication and Marketing Solutions that were previously excluded from our former MDS definition.
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
Costs, Expenses and Other Income
Summary of Key Financial Ratios
Pre-tax Income Margin
Second quarter 2019 pre-tax income margin of 8.7% increased 3.4-percentage points as compared to second quarter 2018.
The increase was primarily driven by lower Transaction and related costs, net as well lower operating expenses, primarily reflecting the net benefit from our Project Own It transformation actions, which more than offset the adverse impact of lower revenues.
Pre-tax income margin for the six months ended June 30, 2019 of 6.3% increased 0.9-percentage points as compared to the prior year period.
The increase was primarily driven by lower Transaction and related costs, net as well lower operating expenses, primarily reflecting the net benefit from our Project Own It transformation actions, which more than offset the adverse impact of higher Restructuring and related costs and lower revenues.
Second quarter 2019 adjusted1 operating margin of 12.7% increased 1.7-percentage points as compared to second quarter 2018 primarily reflecting the impact of SAG reductions and cost productivity associated with our Project Own It transformation actions, which more than offset the pace of revenue decline and an approximate 0.3-percentage point unfavorable impact from transaction currency.
The increase also reflected a $20 million favorable impact from higher costs in the prior year related to the termination of an IT project and the accelerated depreciation associated with the exit of a surplus real estate facility.
Adjusted1 operating margin for the six months ended June 30, 2019 of 12.0% increased 1.5-percentage points as compared to the prior year period primarily reflecting the impact of SAG reductions and cost productivity associated with our Project Own It transformation actions, which more than offset the pace of revenue decline and an approximate 0.3-percentage point unfavorable impact from transaction currency.
The increase also reflected a $29 million favorable impact from higher costs in the prior year related to the termination of an IT project and the accelerated depreciation associated with the exit of a surplus real estate facility.
Gross Margin
Second quarter 2019 gross margin of 39.2% decreased 0.7-percentage points as compared to second quarter 2018, due to lower equipment margin, which reflected the unfavorable volume and mix impacts of lower sales, primarily from mid-range equipment in our XBS organization, as well as targeted price actions partially offset by cost productivity.
The decrease also included the unfavorable impact of transaction currency.
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
Gross margin for the six months ended June 30, 2019 of 39.7% decreased 0.2-percentage points as compared to the prior year period, due to lower equipment margin, which reflected the unfavorable volume and mix impacts of lower sales, primarily from mid-range equipment in our XBS organization, as well as targeted price actions partially offset by cost productivity.
The decrease also included the unfavorable impact of transaction currency.
Second quarter 2019 equipment gross margin of 28.8% decreased 3.2-percentage points as compared to second quarter 2018, including an approximate 0.8-percentage point unfavorable impact from transaction currency and also reflecting the unfavorable volume and mix impacts of lower sales, primarily from mid-range equipment in our XBS organization, as well as targeted price actions partially offset by cost productivity.
Equipment gross margin for the six months ended June 30, 2019 of 32.1% decreased 0.2-percentage points as compared to the prior year period, including an approximate 0.9-percentage point unfavorable impact from transaction currency also reflecting the unfavorable volume and mix impacts of lower sales, primarily from mid-range equipment in our XBS organization, as well as targeted price actions partially offset by cost productivity.
Second quarter 2019 post sale gross margin of 42.0% decreased 0.1-percentage points as compared to second quarter 2018, driven by the impact of lower revenues, almost entirely offset by productivity and restructuring savings associated with our Project Own It transformation actions.
Post sale gross margin for the six months ended June 30, 2019 of 41.8% decreased 0.1-percentage points as compared to the prior year period, driven by the impact of lower revenues, almost entirely offset by productivity and restructuring savings associated with our Project Own It transformation actions.
Selling, Administrative and General Expenses (SAG)
SAG as a percentage of revenue of 22.7% decreased by 2.2-percentage points as compared to second quarter 2018, primarily reflecting the benefit from productivity and restructuring associated with our Project Own It transformation actions.
SAG of $519 million decreased $105 million as compared to second quarter 2018, reflecting productivity and restructuring savings associated with our Project Own It transformation actions as well as favorable impacts of approximately $9 million from translation currency and $20 million from higher costs in the prior year related to the termination of an IT project and the accelerated depreciation associated with the exit of a surplus real estate facility.
Bad debt expense of $12 million was flat as compared to second quarter 2018 and on a trailing twelve month basis (TTM) remained at less than one percent of total receivables.
SAG as a percentage of revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2019 of 23.7% decreased by 1.6-percentage points as compared to the prior year period, primarily reflecting the benefit from productivity and restructuring associated with our Project Own It transformation actions.
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
SAG for the six months ended June 30, 2019 of $1,067 million decreased $185 million as compared to the prior year period, reflecting productivity and restructuring savings associated with our Project Own It transformation actions as well as favorable impacts of approximately $22 million from translation currency and $29 million from higher costs in the prior year related to the termination of an IT project and the accelerated depreciation associated with the exit of a surplus real estate facility.
Bad debt expense of $25 million was flat as compared to the prior year period and on a trailing twelve month basis (TTM) remained at less than one percent of total receivables.
Restructuring and Related Costs
Restructuring and related costs were $72 million for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and included $25 million of severance costs related to headcount reductions of approximately 300 employees worldwide, $17 million of other contractual termination costs and $46 million of asset impairment charges.
These costs were partially offset by $16 million of net reversals, primarily resulting from changes in estimated reserves from prior period initiatives as well as $2 million in favorable adjustments from the early termination of prior period impaired leases.
The implementation of our Project Own It initiatives as well as other strategic initiatives is expected to result in significant cost savings in 2019 and future years.
However, as noted in the discussion on Revenues, the implementation of these initiatives negatively impacted our revenues in the first half of 2019.
The impact on our revenues from these initiatives began to moderate late in the second quarter, and we expect to make further progress reducing the impact from these initiatives on our revenues in the second half of 2019.
Nevertheless, any expected savings associated with these initiatives may continue to be offset to some extent until initiatives are fully implemented and stabilized.
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
Restructuring and related costs were $62 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and included $64 million of severance costs related to headcount reductions of approximately 950 employees worldwide and $12 million of lease cancellation costs partially offset by $14 million of net reversals for changes in estimated reserves from prior period initiatives.
The restructuring reserve balance as of June 30, 2019 for all programs was $69 million, of which $67 million is expected to be spent over the next twelve months.
Refer to Note 12 - Restructuring Programs in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our restructuring programs.
Transaction and Related Costs, Net
Transaction and related costs, net are expenses incurred in connection with Xerox's planned transaction with Fuji, which was terminated in May 2018, as well as costs and expenses related to the previously disclosed settlement agreement reached with certain shareholders and litigation related to the terminated transaction and other shareholder actions.
Transaction and related costs, net for the six months ended June 30, 2019 were $4 million as compared to $96 million in the prior year period.
We continue to pursue additional recoveries from insurance carriers and other parties for costs and expenses related to the terminated Fuji transaction and related shareholder litigation and therefore additional recoveries and adjustments may be recorded in future periods, when finalized.
Amortization of Intangible Assets
Amortization of intangible assets for the six months ended June 30, 2019 of $26 million increased by $2 million as compared to the prior year period.
The increase primarily reflected the accelerated write-off of trade names associated with our realignment and consolidation of certain XBS sales units as part of our Project Own It transformation actions.
Worldwide Employment
Worldwide employment was approximately 27,900 as of June 30, 2019 and decreased by approximately 4,500 from December 31, 2018.
The reduction resulted from net attrition (attrition net of gross hires), of which a large portion is not expected to be backfilled, as well as the impact of organizational changes including employees transferred as part of the shared services arrangement recently entered into with HCL Technologies.
Other Expenses, Net
Non-Financing Interest Expense
Second quarter non-financing interest expense of $26 million was $1 million lower than second quarter 2018.
When combined with financing interest expense (Cost of financing), total interest expense decreased by $1 million from second quarter 2018 primarily due to a lower debt balance.
Non-financing interest expense for the six months ended June 30, 2019 of $53 million was $3 million lower than the prior year period.
When combined with financing interest expense (Cost of financing), total interest expense decreased by $5 million from the prior year period primarily due to a lower debt balance.
Refer to Note 13 - Debt in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding the interest expense.
Non-Service Retirement-Related Costs
Non-service retirement-related costs for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 decreased $15 million and $27 million, respectively, as compared to the prior year periods, primarily driven by the favorable impact of a 2018 amendment to our U.S. Retiree Health Plan partially offset by higher losses from pension settlements in the U.S.
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
Refer to Note 16 - Employee Benefit Plans in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding non-service retirement-related costs.
Gains on Sales of Businesses and Assets
Gains on sales of businesses and assets for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 decreased by $16 million and $31 million, respectively, as compared to the prior year periods, reflecting the prior year sale of non-core business assets.
Income Taxes
Our effective tax rate is based on nonrecurring events as well as recurring factors, including the taxation of foreign income.
In addition, our effective tax rate will change based on discrete or other nonrecurring events that may not be predictable.
Equity in Net Income (Loss) of Unconsolidated Affiliates
Equity in net income (loss) of unconsolidated affiliates primarily reflects our 25% share of Fuji Xerox Net income (loss).
For the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, equity income increased $15 million and $128 million as compared to the prior year periods, primarily reflecting savings from restructuring.
The increase in Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates for the six months ended June 30, 2019 also reflects $64 million of lower year-over-year charges of related to our share of Fuji Xerox after-tax restructuring and other charges, as well as an approximate $28 million charge related to an out-of-period charge at Fuji Xerox in the prior year.
Refer to Note 11 - Investments in Affiliates, at Equity in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our Investment in Fuji Xerox as well as the prior period out-of-period adjustment.
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
Net Income
Second quarter 2019 Net income attributable to Xerox was $181 million, or $0.77 per diluted share.
On an adjusted1 basis, Net income attributable to Xerox was $233 million, or $0.99 per diluted share and includes adjustments for Restructuring and related costs, Amortization of intangible assets, Transaction and related costs, net and non-service retirement-related costs.
Net income attributable to Xerox for the six months ended June 30, 2019 was $314 million, or $1.32 per diluted share.
On an adjusted1 basis, Net income attributable to Xerox was $452 million, or $1.90 per diluted share and includes adjustments for Restructuring and related costs, Amortization of intangible assets, Transaction and related costs, net and non-service retirement-related costs, as well as other discrete, unusual or infrequent items as described in our Non-GAAP Financial Measures section.
Second quarter 2018 Net income attributable to Xerox was $112 million, or $0.42 per diluted share.
On an adjusted1 basis, Net income attributable to Xerox was $213 million, or $0.80 per diluted share and includes adjustments for Restructuring and related costs, Amortization of intangible assets, Transaction and related costs, net and non-service retirement-related costs.
Net income attributable to Xerox for the six months ended June 30, 2018 was $135 million, or $0.50 per diluted share.
On an adjusted1 basis, Net income attributable to Xerox was $391 million, or $1.48 per diluted share and includes adjustments for Restructuring and related costs, Amortization of intangible assets, Transaction and related costs, net as well as non-service retirement-related costs.
Refer to Note 20 - Earnings per Share in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share.
Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)
Refer to Note 19 - Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, for the components of Other Comprehensive Income (Loss), Note 14 - Financial Instruments in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding unrealized gains (losses), net, and Note 16 - Employee Benefit Plans in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding net changes in our defined benefit plans.
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
Capital Resources and Liquidity
As of June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, total cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash were $776 million and $1,148 million, respectively.
There were no borrowings under our Credit Facility at June 30, 2019 or December 31, 2018, respectively.
The decrease in total cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash primarily reflect the repayment of $406 million of maturing Senior Notes in first quarter 2019.
We continue to expect operating cash flows from continuing operations to be between $1,150 million and $1,250 million, capital expenditures of approximately $150 million, dividend payments to shareholders of approximately $250 million and share repurchases of at least $600 million in 2019.
Cash Flow Analysis
Cash Flows from Operating Activities
•$88 million increase primarily due to lower levels of inventories partially reflecting lower sales volume.
•$47 million increase due to lower placements of equipment on operating leases.
•$46 million increase due to prior year net payments of $38 million for transaction and related costs as compared to net proceeds of $8 million in 2019.
•$37 million increase from lower restructuring payments primarily due to timing.
•$33 million increase in dividends received from equity investments primarily due to increased net income from Fuji Xerox.
•$31 million increase from the settlements of foreign currency derivative contracts associated with our Yen-denominated inventory purchases.
•$85 million decrease from the change in accounts payable primarily related to lower inventory and other spending as well as the year-over-year timing of supplier and vendor payments.
•$58 million decrease due to payments associated with restructuring related costs primarily for our contractual severance obligation incurred as part of the shared service arrangement with HCL Technologies and professional support services associated with our business transformation initiatives.
•$25 million decrease from accounts receivable primarily due to the timing of invoicing and collections.
•$23 million decrease due to a lower net run-off of finance receivables.
Cash Flows from Investing Activities
•$42 million decrease primarily due to two acquisitions.
•$31 million decrease primarily due to the sale of non-core business assets in 2018.
•$19 million increase reflecting lower capital expenditures.
Cash Flows from Financing Activities
•$300 million increase due to share repurchases.
•$95 million increase from net debt activity.
2019 reflects payments of $406 million on Senior Notes compared to prior year payments of $265 million on Senior Notes, $25 million related to the termination of a capital lease obligation and $19 million of bridge facility costs.
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
Adoption of New Leasing Standard
On January 1, 2019, we adopted ASU 2016-02, Leases (ASC Topic 842).
This update, as well as additional amendments and targeted improvements issued in 2018 and early 2019, supersedes existing lease accounting guidance found under ASC 840, Leases (ASC 840) and requires the recognition of right-of-use (ROU) assets and lease obligations by lessees for those leases originally classified as operating leases under prior lease guidance.
•Note 2 - Recent Accounting Pronouncements
•Note 3 - Adoption of New Leasing Standard - Xerox as a Lessee
•Note 4 - Adoption of New Leasing Standard - Xerox as a Lessor
Potential Customer Financing Transaction
Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash
Refer to Note 7 - Supplementary Financial Information in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash.
Debt and Customer Financing Activities
Finance Assets and Related Debt
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
Debt Activity
Senior Notes Repayment
In first quarter 2019, we repaid approximately $406 million of maturing Senior Notes.
Sales of Accounts Receivable
Refer to Note 8 - Accounts Receivable, Net in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our accounts receivable sales arrangements.
Liquidity and Financial Flexibility
We manage our worldwide liquidity using internal cash management practices, which are subject to i) the statutes, regulations and practices of each of the local jurisdictions in which we operate, ii) the legal requirements of the agreements to which we are a party and iii) the policies and cooperation of the financial institutions we utilize to maintain and provide cash management services.
Treasury Stock
In second quarter 2019, we repurchased 5.9 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate cost of $197 million, including fees, for a cumulative program-to-date total of 35.3 million shares at a cost of $1.0 billion, including fees.
No additional shares were repurchased through July 31, 2019.
We continue to expect full year 2019 share repurchases of at least $600 million.
Refer to Note 17 - Shareholders' Equity in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our share repurchase program.
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
Financial Risk Management
We are required to recognize all derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities at fair value in the balance sheet.
As permitted, certain of these derivative contracts have been designated for hedge accounting treatment.
Certain of our derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are effective as economic hedges.
These derivative contracts are likewise required to be recognized each period at fair value and therefore do result in some level of volatility.
The level of volatility will vary with the type and amount of derivative hedges outstanding, as well as fluctuations in the currency and interest rate markets during the period.
The related cash flow impacts of all of our derivative activities are reflected as cash flows from operating activities.
By their nature, all derivative instruments involve, to varying degrees, elements of market and credit risk.
The market risk associated with these instruments resulting from currency exchange and interest rate movements is expected to offset the market risk of the underlying transactions, assets and liabilities being hedged.
We do not believe there is significant risk of loss in the event of non-performance by the counterparties associated with these instruments because these transactions are executed with a diversified group of major financial institutions.
Further, our policy is to deal with counterparties having a minimum investment grade or better credit rating.
Credit risk is managed through the continuous monitoring of exposures to such counterparties.
The current market events have not required us to materially modify or change our financial risk management strategies with respect to our exposures to interest rate and foreign currency risk.
Refer to Note 14 – Financial Instruments in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion and information on our financial risk management strategies.
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We have reported our financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
In addition, we have discussed our financial results using the non-GAAP measures described below.
We believe these non-GAAP measures allow investors to better understand the trends in our business and to better understand and compare our results.
Accordingly, we believe it is necessary to adjust several reported amounts, determined in accordance with GAAP, to exclude the effects of certain items as well as their related income tax effects.
These non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the Company’s reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Adjusted Earnings Measures
•Net income and Earnings per share (EPS)
•Effective tax rate
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
We believe the exclusion of these items allows investors to better understand and analyze the results for the period as compared to prior periods and expected future trends in our business.
Adjusted Operating Income and Margin
We calculate and utilize adjusted operating income and margin measures by adjusting our reported pre-tax income and margin amounts.
In addition to the costs and expenses noted as adjustments for our Adjusted Earnings measures, adjusted operating income and margin also exclude the remaining amounts included in Other expenses, net, which are primarily non-financing interest expense and certain other non-operating costs and expenses.
We exclude these amounts in order to evaluate our current and past operating performance and to better understand the expected future trends in our business.
Constant Currency (CC)
Refer to "Currency Impact" for a discussion of this measure and its use in our analysis of revenue growth.
Summary
Management believes that all of these non-GAAP financial measures provide an additional means of analyzing the current period’s results against the corresponding prior period’s results.
However, these non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the Company’s reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Our non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP measures and should be read only in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Our management regularly uses our supplemental non-GAAP financial measures internally to understand, manage and evaluate our business and make operating decisions.
These non-GAAP measures are among the primary factors management uses in planning for and forecasting future periods.
Compensation of our executives is based in part on the performance of our business based on these non-GAAP measures.
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
ITEM 2 — UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS
During the quarter ended June 30, 2019, Xerox Corporation issued the following securities in transactions that were not registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Act”).
c.The DSUs were issued at a deemed purchase price of $32.355 per DSU (aggregate price $613,710), based upon the market value on the date of issuance, in payment of the Annual Director's fees pursuant to Xerox Corporation's 2004 Equity Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors.
d.Exemption from registration under the Act was claimed based upon Section 4(2) as a sale by an issuer not involving a public offering.
d.Exemption from registration under the Act was claimed based upon Section 4(2) as a sale by an issuer not involving a public offering.
d.Exemption from registration under the Act was claimed based upon Section 4(2) as a sale by an issuer not involving a public offering.
Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
