item1.txt
In the opinion of management, the unaudited interim consolidated condensed financial statements of Applied Materials, Inc. and its subsidiaries (Applied or the Company) included herein have been prepared on a basis consistent with the October 28, 2018 audited consolidated financial statements and include all material adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary to fairly present the information set forth therein.
These unaudited interim consolidated condensed financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Applied’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 28, 2018 (2018 Form 10-K).
Applied’s results of operations for the three months ended January 27, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of future operating results.
At the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal 2019, Applied adopted the new revenue recognition standard using the full retrospective method.
Applied maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments.
This allowance is based on historical experience, credit evaluations, specific customer collection history and any customer-specific issues Applied has identified.
Changes in circumstances, such as an unexpected material adverse change in a major customer’s ability to meet its financial obligation to Applied or its payment trends, may require Applied to further adjust its estimates of the recoverability of amounts due to Applied.
Applied provides for the estimated cost of warranty when revenue is recognized.
Applied’s warranty obligation is affected by product and component failure rates, material usage and labor costs incurred in correcting product failures during the warranty period.
If actual warranty costs differ substantially from Applied’s estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be required.
Applied recognizes revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration to which Applied expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
Applied determines revenue recognition through the following five steps; (1) identification of the contract(s) with customers, (2) identification of the performance obligations in the contract, (3) determination of the transaction price, (4) allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract, and (5) recognition of revenue when, or as, a performance obligation is satisfied.
Applied sells manufacturing equipment, services, and spare parts directly to its customers in the semiconductor, display, and related industries.
Applied’s performance obligations include delivery of manufacturing equipment, service agreements, spare parts, installation, extended warranty and training.
Applied’s service agreements are considered one performance obligation and may include multiple goods and services that we provide to the customer to deliver against a performance metric.
The transaction price for Applied’s contracts with customers may include fixed and variable consideration.


item2.txt
Semiconductor equipment customers made investments in new capacity and technology transitions, although overall spending decreased compared to the same period in the prior year.
Applied also continued to see strong growth in demand for services and continued demand for spares from customers as compared to the same period in the prior year.
While Applied anticipates major technology trends to continue driving long-term growth in the semiconductor industry, the trends characterizing the second half of 2018 continued into early fiscal 2019, with lower spending by memory customers, and foundry and logic customers prioritizing spending on longer lead-time equipment not in Applied’s product portfolio.
Applied also expects lower spending for display manufacturing equipment in fiscal 2019, although long-term demand drivers remain in place.
Applied anticipates continued growth in semiconductor services spending in fiscal 2019.
The three months ended January 28, 2018 included a one-time expense related to the enactment of recent U.S. tax legislation that reduced diluted earnings per share by $0.94.
For the three months ended January 27, 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year, net sales decreased primarily due to decreased customer investments in semiconductor equipment.


item4.txt



part2.txt
To meet rapidly changing demand in the industries it serves, Applied must accurately forecast demand and effectively manage its resources and production capacity across its businesses, and may incur unexpected or additional costs to align its business operations.
During periods of increasing demand for its products, Applied must have sufficient manufacturing capacity and inventory to meet customer demand; effectively manage its supply chain; attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified employees; and continue to control costs.
During periods of decreasing demand, Applied must reduce costs and align its cost structure with prevailing market conditions; effectively manage its supply chain; and motivate and retain key employees.
If Applied does not effectively manage these challenges during periods of changing demand, its business performance and results of operations may be adversely impacted.
Even with effective allocation of resources and management of costs, during periods of decreasing demand, Applied’s gross margins and earnings may be adversely impacted.
Applied is exposed to risks associated with an uncertain global economy.
Applied maintains an investment portfolio that is subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks.


