item1.txt
In the opinion of management, the unaudited interim consolidated condensed financial statements of Applied Materials, Inc. and its subsidiaries (Applied or the Company) included herein have been prepared on a basis consistent with the October 29, 2017 audited consolidated financial statements and include all material adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary to fairly present the information set forth therein.
These unaudited interim consolidated condensed financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Applied’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 29, 2017 (2017 Form 10-K).
Applied’s results of operations for the three and nine months ended July 29, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of future operating results.
In July 2015, the Financial Accounting Standard Board (FASB) issued authoritative guidance that requires inventory to be measured at the lower of cost and net realizable value instead of at lower of cost or market.
This guidance does not apply to inventory that is measured using last-in, first out (LIFO) or the retail inventory method but applies to all other inventory including those measured using first-in, first-out (FIFO) or the average cost method.
Applied adopted this authoritative guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 prospectively to the measurement of inventory after the effective date.
The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on Applied’s consolidated financial statements.
In March 2016, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that simplifies several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including forfeitures, income tax, and classification on the statement of cash flows.
Applied adopted this guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Upon adoption, Applied elected to continue to estimate forfeitures expected to occur to determine the amount of compensation costs to be recognized in each period.
In the nine months ended July 29, 2018, Applied recognized an excess tax benefit of $51 million in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Operations.
Additionally, Applied elected to apply the presentation requirements for cash flows related to excess tax benefits and employee taxes paid for withheld shares retrospectively.
The authoritative guidance will be effective for Applied in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, with early adoption permitted.
Applied is currently evaluating the effect of this new guidance on Applied’s consolidated financial statements.
The authoritative guidance will be effective for Applied in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 on a retrospective basis, with early adoption permitted.


item2.txt
The following management’s discussion and analysis is provided in addition to the accompanying consolidated condensed financial statements and notes to assist in understanding Applied’s results of operations and financial condition.
Semiconductor equipment customers continued to make investments in new capacity and overall semiconductor systems revenue increased as compared to the same period in the prior year.
Foundry customers’ spending decreased compared to the prior year and Applied continues to see these customers optimize existing capacity and re-prioritize their capital spending plans.
The three and nine months ended July 29, 2018 included a one-time expense related to the enactment of recent U.S. tax legislation that reduced diluted earnings per share by $0.01 and $1.05, respectively.
For the three and nine months ended July 29, 2018 compared to the same periods in the prior year, net sales increased primarily due to increased customer investments in all segments.
The changes in net sales in all regions in the three and nine months ended July 29, 2018 compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily reflected changes in semiconductor equipment spending and customer mix, and increased spending in semiconductor spares and services.
The increase in net sales to customers in China for the three and nine months ended July 29, 2018 compared to the same periods in the prior year, also reflected increased investments in display manufacturing equipment.
The decrease in net sales to customers in Taiwan for the nine months ended July 29, 2018 compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily reflected decreased investments in semiconductor equipment.


item4.txt



part2.txt
To meet rapidly changing demand in the industries it serves, Applied must accurately forecast demand and effectively manage its resources and production capacity across its businesses, and may incur unexpected or additional costs to align its business operations.
During periods of increasing demand for its products, Applied must have sufficient manufacturing capacity and inventory to meet customer demand; effectively manage its supply chain; attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified employees; and continue to control costs.
During periods of decreasing demand, Applied must reduce costs and align its cost structure with prevailing market conditions; effectively manage its supply chain; and motivate and retain key employees.
If Applied does not effectively manage these challenges during periods of changing demand, its business performance and results of operations may be adversely impacted.
Even with effective allocation of resources and management of costs, during periods of decreasing demand, Applied’s gross margins and earnings may be adversely impacted.
Applied is exposed to risks associated with an uncertain global economy.
The risks to Applied’s investment portfolio may be exacerbated if financial market conditions deteriorate and, as a result, the value and liquidity of the investment portfolio, as well as returns on pension assets, could be negatively impacted and lead to impairment charges.


