fls.txt



item1.txt
In the opinion of management, the unaudited interim consolidated condensed financial statements of Applied Materials, Inc. and its subsidiaries (Applied or the Company) included herein have been prepared on a basis consistent with the October 28, 2018 audited consolidated financial statements and include all material adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary to fairly present the information set forth therein.
These unaudited interim consolidated condensed financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Applied’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 28, 2018 (2018 Form 10-K).
Applied adopted various amended guidance during the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Applied maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments.
This allowance is based on historical experience, credit evaluations, specific customer collection history and any customer-specific issues Applied has identified.
Applied accounts for shipping and handling activities related to contracts with customers as costs to fulfill our promise to transfer the associated products.
Applied provides for the estimated cost of warranty when revenue is recognized.
Applied’s warranty obligation is affected by product and component failure rates, material usage and labor costs incurred in correcting product failures during the warranty period.
If actual warranty costs differ substantially from Applied’s estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be required.
Applied also sells extended warranty contracts to its customers which provide an extension of the standard warranty coverage period of up to 2 years.
Applied receives payment at the inception of the contract and recognizes revenue ratably over the extended warranty coverage period, as the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits of the extended warranty.
Applied recognizes revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration to which Applied expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
Applied determines revenue recognition through the following five steps; (1) identification of the contract(s) with customers, (2) identification of the performance obligations in the contract, (3) determination of the transaction price, (4) allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract, and (5) recognition of revenue when, or as, a performance obligation is satisfied.
Applied sells manufacturing equipment, services, and spare parts directly to its customers in the semiconductor, display, and related industries.
Applied’s service agreements are considered one performance obligation and may include multiple goods and services that we provide to the customer to deliver against a performance metric.
The transaction price for Applied’s contracts with customers may include fixed and variable consideration.


item2.txt
Applied provides manufacturing equipment, services and software to the semiconductor, display, and related industries.
Applied’s results are driven primarily by customer spending on capital equipment and services to support key technology transitions or to increase production volume in response to worldwide demand for semiconductors and displays.
Semiconductor and display manufacturing equipment customers’ investments in new capacity and technology transitions decreased compared to the same period in the prior year.
Applied continued to see growth in demand for services and continued demand for spares from customers as compared to the same period in the prior year.
While Applied anticipates major technology trends to drive long-term growth in the semiconductor industry, the softening in demand that began during the second half of 2018 is expected to continue through 2019, led primarily by lower spending from memory customers.
Foundry and logic spending is expected to increase year-on-year; however, customers are prioritizing spending on longer lead-time equipment not in Applied’s product portfolio.
Applied expects lower spending for display manufacturing equipment in fiscal 2019, although long-term demand drivers remain in place.
The three and six months ended April 29, 2018 included a one-time expense related to the enactment of new U.S. tax legislation that reduced diluted earnings per share by $0.07 and $1.02, respectively.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
To meet rapidly changing demand in the industries it serves, Applied must accurately forecast demand and effectively manage its resources and production capacity across its businesses, and may incur unexpected or additional costs to align its business operations.
During periods of increasing demand for its products, Applied must have sufficient manufacturing capacity and inventory to meet customer demand; effectively manage its supply chain; attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified employees; and continue to control costs.
During periods of decreasing demand, Applied must reduce costs and align its cost structure with prevailing market conditions; effectively manage its supply chain; and motivate and retain key employees.
If Applied does not effectively manage these challenges during periods of changing demand, its business performance and results of operations may be adversely impacted.
Uncertain global economic and business conditions, along with uncertainties and volatility in the financial markets, national debt and fiscal concerns in various regions, pose challenges to the industries in which Applied operates.


