fls.txt



item1.txt
In the opinion of management, the unaudited interim consolidated condensed financial statements of Applied Materials, Inc. and its subsidiaries (Applied or the Company) included herein have been prepared on a basis consistent with the October 29, 2017 audited consolidated financial statements and include all material adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary to fairly present the information set forth therein.
These unaudited interim consolidated condensed financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Applied’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 29, 2017 (2017 Form 10-K).
On an ongoing basis, Applied evaluates its estimates, including those related to accounts receivable and sales allowances, fair values of financial instruments, inventories, intangible assets and goodwill, useful lives of intangible assets and property and equipment, fair values of share-based awards, and income taxes, among others.
In July 2015, the Financial Accounting Standard Board (FASB) issued authoritative guidance that requires inventory to be measured at the lower of cost and net realizable value instead of at lower of cost or market.
This guidance does not apply to inventory that is measured using last-in, first out (LIFO) or the retail inventory method but applies to all other inventory including those measured using first-in, first-out (FIFO) or the average cost method.
Applied adopted this authoritative guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 prospectively to measurement of inventory after the effective date.
The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on Applied’s consolidated financial statements.
In March 2016, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that simplifies several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including forfeitures, income tax, and classification on the statement of cash flows.
In the six months ended April 29, 2018, Applied recognized an excess tax benefit of $53 million in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Operations.
Applied is currently evaluating the effect of this new guidance on Applied’s consolidated financial statements.
The authoritative guidance expands the application of hedge accounting for non-financial and financial risk components and eases certain hedge effectiveness assessment requirements.
Applied is currently evaluating the effect of this new guidance on Applied’s consolidated financial statements.
The adoption of this guidance is only expected to result in reclassification of other components of net benefit costs outside of income from operations and is not expected to have a significant impact on Applied’s consolidated financial statements.
The adoption of this guidance is not expected to have a significant impact on Applied’s consolidated financial statements.
The authoritative guidance will be effective for Applied in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 on a prospective basis, with early adoption permitted.


item2.txt
The following management’s discussion and analysis is provided in addition to the accompanying consolidated condensed financial statements and notes to assist in understanding Applied’s results of operations and financial condition.
Applied provides manufacturing equipment, services and software to the semiconductor, display, and related industries.
Applied’s results are driven primarily by customer spending on capital equipment and services to support key technology transitions or to increase production volume in response to worldwide demand for semiconductors and displays.
During the first six months of fiscal 2018, healthy investment in semiconductor manufacturing equipment and services continued to be a strong driver of revenue.
The second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018 included a one-time expense related to the enactment of recent U.S. tax legislation that reduced diluted earnings per share by $0.07 and $1.02, respectively.
For the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018 compared to the same periods in the prior year, net sales increased primarily due to increased customer investments in all segments, with majority of the increases resulting from investments in semiconductor equipment.
The changes in net sales in all regions in the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2018 compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily reflected changes in semiconductor equipment customer mix and increased spending in display manufacturing equipment and semiconductor spares and services.
The increase in net sales from customers in Korea, Japan, and Southeast Asia for the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2018 compared to the same periods in the prior year, primarily reflected increased investments in semiconductor equipment and changes in semiconductor equipment customer mix.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
To meet rapidly changing demand in the industries it serves, Applied must accurately forecast demand and effectively manage its resources and production capacity across its businesses, and may incur unexpected or additional costs to align its business operations.
During periods of increasing demand for its products, Applied must have sufficient manufacturing capacity and inventory to meet customer demand; effectively manage its supply chain; attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified employees; and continue to control costs.
During periods of decreasing demand, Applied must reduce costs and align its cost structure with prevailing market conditions; effectively manage its supply chain; and motivate and retain key employees.
If Applied does not effectively manage these challenges during periods of changing demand, its business performance and results of operations may be adversely impacted.
Applied is exposed to risks associated with an uncertain global economy.
Uncertain global economic and business conditions, along with uncertainties and volatility in the financial markets, national debt and fiscal concerns in various regions, pose challenges to the industries in which Applied operates.


