fls.txt



item1.txt
For further information, refer to the audited consolidated financial statements and footnotes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 (the “2017 Form 10-K”).
PCTEL antennas are deployed in small cells, enterprise Wi-Fi access points, fleet management and transit systems, and in network equipment and devices for the Industrial Internet of Things (“IIoT”).
Mobile operators, neutral hosts, and equipment manufacturers rely on PCTEL to analyze, design, and optimize next generation wireless networks.
Each segment has its own segment manager as well as its own engineering, business development, sales and marketing, and operational general and administrative functions.
All of the Company’s accounting and finance, human resources, IT and legal functions are provided on a centralized basis through the corporate function.
The Company manages its balance sheet and cash flows centrally at the corporate level, with the exception of trade accounts receivable and inventory which is managed at the segment level.
PCTEL antennas are deployed primarily in small cells, enterprise Wi-Fi access points, fleet management and transit systems, and in equipment and devices for the IIoT.
These include radio frequency engineering, mobile antenna design and manufacturing, mechanical engineering, product quality and testing, and wireless network engineering.
Network operators, neutral hosts, and equipment manufacturers rely on PCTEL’s scanning receivers and testing solutions to analyze, design, and optimize their networks.
PCTEL test equipment is sold directly to wireless carriers or to OEMs who integrate the Company’s products into their solutions which are then sold to wireless carriers.
During the quarter ended June 30, 2017, the Company approved a plan to sell its Network Engineering Service business (“Engineering Services”) and shift its focus toward research and development driven radio frequency (“RF”) products.
On July 31, 2017, the Company sold substantially all of the assets of the Company’s Engineering Services business to Gabe’s Construction Co., Inc. (“Gabe’s”) for a purchase price of $1.45 million.
The Engineering Services business provided design, testing, commissioning, optimization, and consulting services for cellular, Wi-Fi and public safety networks and was a reporting unit within the RF Solutions segment.
Due to the significance of its historical results and because this disposition represented a strategic shift by the Company to focus on products, the disposition of Engineering Services also qualified as a discontinued operation for reporting purposes.
The condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2017 is derived from the audited financial statements as of December 31, 2017.
The unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements of the Company have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
There were no changes in the Company’s significant accounting policies during the three months ended March 31, 2018.
The results of operations for the period ended March 31, 2018 may not be indicative of the results for the period ending December 31, 2018.
Net foreign exchange losses resulting from foreign currency transactions included in other income, net was $69 and $12 for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The Company is currently evaluating this guidance and the impact it will have on its consolidated financial statements.


item2.txt
The following information should be read in conjunction with the unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 (the “2017 Form 10-+K”).
Our first quarter 2018 revenues decreased by $1.2 million, or 5.4% compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to lower revenues for the RF Solutions segment.
We recorded an operating loss of $1.2 million compared to operating income of $22 during the same period in 2017.
Revenue growth for the Connected Solutions segment is driven by the increased use of wireless communications and increased complexity trends occurring in these markets.
These include radio frequency engineering, mobile antenna design and manufacturing, mechanical engineering, product quality and testing, and wireless network engineering.
Revenue growth for the RF Solutions segment is driven by the implementation and roll out of new wireless technology standards (i.e., 3G to 4G, 4G to 5G, etc.
Revenues for the Connected Solutions segment increased 2.9% for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 due to increased sales in the enterprise Wi-Fi vertical market.
Revenues for the RF Solutions segment decreased 30.5% for the three months ended March 31, 2017 compared to the same period in 2017 due to lower capital spending by U.S. carriers and lower revenues in the Asia Pacific region.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



