fls.txt



item1.txt
For further information, refer to the audited consolidated financial statements and footnotes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 (the “2017 Form 10-K”).
PCTEL antennas are deployed in small cells, enterprise Wi-Fi access points, fleet management and transit systems, and in network equipment and devices for the Industrial Internet of Things (“IIoT”).
The Company’s operations, engineering, business development, sales and marketing, and operational general and administrative functions were consolidated into single enterprise-wide organizations.
The CODM assessed operating profits and identified assets for the Connected Solutions and RF Solutions segments for resource allocations.
Each segment had its own segment manager as well as its own engineering, business development, sales and marketing, and operational general and administrative functions.
The Company managed its balance sheet and cash flows centrally at the corporate level, with the exception of trade accounts receivable and inventory which were managed at the segment level.
All of the Company’s accounting and finance, human resources, information technology (“IT”) and legal functions were provided on a centralized basis through the corporate function.
Because the reorganization occurred during the third quarter 2018, this report reflects the segment reporting structure that was in effect for all of 2017 and through August of 2018.
Beginning with the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, the Company will not report any segment information.
The Company will report revenue and gross profit for its two major product lines, Antenna Products and Test and Measurement Products.
PCTEL antennas are deployed primarily in small cells, enterprise Wi-Fi access points, fleet management and transit systems, and in equipment and devices for the IIoT.
These include radio frequency engineering, mobile antenna design and manufacturing, mechanical engineering, product quality and testing, and wireless network engineering.
Network operators, neutral hosts, and equipment manufacturers rely on PCTEL’s scanning receivers and testing solutions to analyze, design, and optimize their networks.
PCTEL test equipment is sold directly to wireless carriers or to OEMs who integrate the Company’s products into their solutions which are then sold to wireless carriers.
During the quarter ended June 30, 2017, the Company approved a plan to sell its Network Engineering Services business (“Engineering Services”) and shift its focus to research and development driven radio frequency (“RF”) products.
On July 31, 2017, the Company sold substantially all of the assets of the Company’s Engineering Services business to Gabe’s Construction Co., Inc. (“Gabe’s”) for a purchase price of $1.45 million.
The Engineering Services business provided design, testing, commissioning, optimization, and consulting services for cellular, Wi-Fi and public safety networks and was a reporting unit within the RF Solutions segment.
The disposition of Engineering Services qualified as a discontinued operation for reporting purposes due to the material significance of its historical results and because this disposition represented a strategic shift by the Company to focus on products.
The unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements of the Company include the condensed consolidated balance sheet and the condensed consolidated statement of stockholders’ equity as of September 30, 2018, and the condensed consolidated statements of operations, statements of comprehensive (loss) income, and cash flows for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.


item2.txt
The following information should be read in conjunction with the unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 (the “2017 Form 10-K”).
Our third quarter 2018 revenues of $18.4 million decreased by $5.2 million or 22.1% compared to revenues of $23.7 million for the same period in 2017.
Revenues decreased for the Connected Solutions segment by $3.1 million or 17.3% and decreased for the RF Solutions segment by $2.2 million or 38.0% compared to the third quarter 2017.
For the third quarter 2018, we recorded an operating loss of $2.4 million compared to operating profit of $0.9 million in the third quarter 2017.
Revenues declined in the RF Solutions segment by $4.5 million or 27.6% and revenues declined in the Connected Solutions segment by $2.0 million or 3.8%.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we recorded an operating loss of $5.2 million compared to operating profit of $0.6 million during the same period in 2017.
Each segment had its own segment manager as well as its own engineering, business development, sales and marketing, and operational general and administrative functions.
We managed our balance sheet and cash flows centrally at the corporate level, with the exception of trade accounts receivable and inventory which was managed at the segment level.
Generally, revenue growth for the Connected Solutions segment is driven by the increased use of wireless communications and increased complexity trends occurring in these markets.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
We are the subject of various pending or threatened legal actions in the ordinary course of our business.


