fls.txt
The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto, which appear elsewhere herein.


item1.txt
During the first quarter of our fiscal year 2019 we created Recur Holdings LLC (“Recur”), a Delaware limited liability company wholly owned by the Company.
On February 13, 2019, through our newly formed subsidiary, LM Capital Solutions, LLC (“LMCS”), we closed on a purchase agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”) to acquire the operating assets of LuxeMark Capital, LLC (“Old LuxeMark”) (the “LuxeMark Acquisition”).
LMCS operates through its syndication network to facilitate merchant cash advance (“MCA”) funding by connecting a network of MCA originators (sometimes referred to herein as “funders”) with syndicate participants who provide those originators with capital by purchasing participation interests in funded MCAs.
Through LMCS, we (i) continue to operate the Old LuxeMark syndication network by sourcing syndication funding for MCA originators and providing reporting and other administrative services in exchange for a syndication fee, (ii) directly purchase participation interests from MCA originators for LMCS’ own MCA portfolio and (iii) provide loans to MCA originators to fund the MCAs themselves, which generates interest income and syndication fee income from servicing those MCAs.
The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements included herein have been prepared by the Company pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
In the opinion of management, all adjustments of a normal recurring nature which were considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included.
These loans are reported on the balance sheet at the outstanding principal balance adjusted for any charge-offs, allowance for loan losses, and deferred fees or costs.
Diluted earnings (loss) per share is computed by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding including dilutive common share equivalents.
Under the treasury stock method, incremental shares representing the number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding if the dilutive potential common shares had been issued are included in the computation.
Weighted-average common share equivalents of 9,757 and 31,665 for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, were excluded from the calculation, as their effect would have been anti-dilutive.
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly fashion between market participants at the measurement date.
 ·Level 3 Assets or liabilities for which fair value is based on valuation models with significant unobservable pricing inputs and which include the use of management estimates.
All highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less when purchased are considered to be cash equivalents.
All investments with original maturities of more than three months are classified as available-for-sale, trading or held-to-maturity investments.
The Company has elected the measurement alternative and will record the investments at cost adjusted for observable price changes for an identical or similar investment of the same issuer.
We also use Level 3 inputs to determine the fair value of our contingent consideration and common stock purchase warrants related to the LuxeMark Acquisition.
The Company uses a Monte Carlo simulation technique to value the performance-based contingent consideration and common stock purchase warrants.


item2.txt
References herein to “CCUR Holdings,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” or “our” refer to CCUR Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context specifically indicates otherwise.
Based on the success of these activities, including the yield characteristics of these loans, access to a consistent volume of attractive real estate transactions, and management’s experience in the real estate industry, we created Recur, a Delaware limited liability company wholly owned by the Company, during the first quarter of our fiscal year 2019.
Recur currently provides commercial loans to local, regional, and national builders, developers, and commercial landowners and is also acquiring, owning, and managing a portfolio of real property for development.
In February 2019, through our newly formed subsidiary, LMCS, we acquired the operating assets of LuxeMark Capital, LLC (the “LuxeMark Acquisition”).
Pursuant to the terms of the purchase agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby, the Company holds an 80% interest in LMCS, with the remaining 20% held by LuxeMark Capital, LLC (“Old LuxeMark”).
The SEC defines “critical accounting estimates” as those that require application of management’s most difficult, subjective, or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain and may change in subsequent periods.
MCA revenue includes income from the discount at which we provide advances on future merchant receivables, as well as fees earned for sourcing both syndication capital and merchant leads for MCA funders.
We generate revenue from interest on loans by entering into commercial loan agreements to fund third party funders in the MCA industry and real estate industry.
General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries, benefits, overhead, management travel, administrative personnel, rent, information systems, insurance, accounting, legal services, board of director fees and expenses, and other professional services.
Other interest income is earned on cash overnight sweep accounts and money market deposits, as well as investments in debt securities.


item4.txt



part2.txt
 Item 1A.Risk Factors


