fls.txt
The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto which appear elsewhere herein.


item1.txt
References herein to “CCUR Holdings,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” or “our” refer to CCUR Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries unless the context specifically indicates otherwise.
In May 2017, we sold our Real-Time business consisting of real-time Linux operating system versions, development and performance optimization tools, simulation software and other system software combined, in many cases, with computer platforms and services.
These real-time products were sold to a wide variety of companies seeking high performance, real-time computer solutions in the defense, aerospace, financial and automotive markets around the world.
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our content delivery and storage business (the “Content Delivery business”) and other related assets to Vecima Networks, Inc. (“Vecima”) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima.
Results of the Content Delivery business are retrospectively reported as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for all periods presented.
Based on the success of these activities, including the yield characteristics of these loans, and management’s experience in the real estate area, we created Recur Holdings LLC, a Delaware limited liability company wholly owned by the Company, during the first quarter of our fiscal year 2019.
The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements included herein have been prepared by the Company pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
The results of operations for the three months and six months ended December 31, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the entire year.
These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018 filed with the SEC on September 7, 2018.
We meet the SEC’s definition of a “Smaller Reporting Company,” and therefore qualify for the SEC’s reduced disclosure requirements for smaller reporting companies.
Held-to-maturity securities are recorded as either short term or long term in the consolidated balance sheet based on contractual maturity date and are stated at amortized cost.
Marketable securities that are bought and held principally for the purpose of selling them in the near term are classified as trading securities and are reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses recognized in earnings.
Debt securities not classified as held-to-maturity or as trading are classified as available-for-sale, and are carried at fair market value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in the determination of comprehensive income and reported in stockholders’ equity.


item2.txt
References herein to “CCUR Holdings,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our” refer to CCUR Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries unless the context specifically indicates otherwise.
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our content delivery and storage business (the “Content Delivery business”) and other related assets to Vecima Networks, Inc. (“Vecima”) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement (the “CDN APA”), dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima.
Substantially all assets and liabilities associated with the Content Delivery business were assigned to Vecima as part of the transaction.
Results of the Content Delivery business are retrospectively reflected as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for all periods presented (see Note 3, “Discontinued Operations,” to the accompanying consolidated financial statements).
Other than the restrictions set forth in the relevant non-competition and non-solicitation agreement executed by the Company in connection with the disposition of our prior operations, there are no restrictions on the transactions that we can pursue, including with respect to industry sector and geographic location.
The Asset Management Committee, among other things, continues the work of the former Investment Committee by providing oversight of the Company’s acquisition process and also manages the Company’s ongoing operations and assets (including continued expansion and development of its real estate operations) and those of any subsequently acquired businesses.
We believe that these activities will enable us to identify, acquire and grow businesses and assets that will maximize value for all of our stockholders.
We have received referrals with respect to and have performed due diligence assessments on multiple target companies and strategic opportunities in a variety of industries.
We work with several financial advisors and consultants on a non-exclusive basis and have been able to filter leads and referrals through diverse channels enabling us to review a wide range of opportunities in a variety of industries.
We made an initial advance of $5.0 million to the originator (the “Initial MCA Advance”), who in turn advanced these funds to merchants as part of a syndication.
MCAs are contracts formed through a future receivables or receipts purchase and sale agreement, which stipulates the purchase price, or the amount advanced, and the specified amount, or the advance amount plus the factored receivable balance the Company will be repaid, on the face of the contract.


item4.txt



part2.txt
There can be no assurance that we will complete the acquisition of an 80% interest in LuxeMark, which acquisition currently is under a non-binding letter of intent.
If we do not complete this acquisition, we will have expended significant expenses and management resources without our shareholders realizing the potential benefits.
There can be no assurance that we will complete the acquisition of an 80% interest in LuxeMark as discussed under a non-binding letter of intent under the terms set forth in the letter of intent, or at all, because the letter of intent is not binding on us or on LuxeMark.
Our acquisition of such interest is subject to us negotiating and executing with LuxeMark a mutually acceptable definitive and binding purchase agreement with respect to the business, which we expect will contain a number of conditions to closing the acquisition, including (i) our completion of satisfactory due diligence with respect to LuxeMark’s business, and (ii) satisfaction of customary closing conditions and, dependent on the results of due diligence and negotiation of the definitive documents between the parties, may require material modifications to the terms set forth in the letter of intent.


