fls.txt



item1.txt
These accounting principles were applied on a basis consistent with those of the audited Consolidated Financial Statements contained in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) on February 28, 2018 (the “2017 Form 10-K”).
In the opinion of the Company, the accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contain all adjustments (consisting of only normal recurring adjustments, except as noted elsewhere in the notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements) necessary for a fair statement of its financial position as of June 30, 2018, the results of its operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 and its cash flows for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017.
ASU 2016-15 addresses how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows under ASC Topic 230, Statement of Cash Flow, and other Topics.
The impact of the Company’s adoption of ASU 2016-15 to the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements was to reflect the presentation of debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs as cash outflows from financing activities within the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
The Company adopted ASU 2016-15 as of January 1, 2018, which resulted in the Company presenting fees paid for debt extinguishment as a financing activity within the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for all periods shown.
In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01, Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.
ASU 2016-01 requires equity investments, except those accounted for under the equity method of accounting, that have readily determinable fair values to be measured at fair value with any changes in fair value recognized in net income.
Equity securities that do not have readily determinable fair values may be measured at estimated fair value or cost less impairment, if any, adjusted for subsequent observable price changes, with changes in the carrying value recognized in net income.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the pending adoption of ASU 2016-13 on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Earnings and losses from such investments are recorded on a pre-tax basis, if any.
In connection with providing data processing services for its clients, the Company holds client funds on behalf of transfer agency clients and pharmacy processing clients.
Client funds obligations represent the Company’s contractual obligations to remit funds to satisfy client pharmacy claim obligations and are recorded on the balance sheet when incurred, generally after a claim has been processed by the Company.
Under the equity method, the Company recognizes income or losses from its pro-rata share of these unconsolidated affiliates’ net income or loss, which changes the carrying value of the investment of the unconsolidated affiliate.
The Company uses net asset value as a practical expedient for the fair value of partnership interests in private equity funds that are not accounted for under the equity method of accounting.
Investments in non-marketable equity securities that do not have readily determinable fair values and do not qualify for the practical expedient to measure the investment using a net asset value per share are recorded using the measurement alternative in ASU 2016-01, Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.


item2.txt
Item 2.
Under the equity method, we recognize income or losses from our pro-rata share of these unconsolidated affiliates’ net income or loss, which changes the carrying value of the investment of the unconsolidated affiliate.
We measure equity investments in unconsolidated subsidiaries, other than those accounted for under the equity method of accounting or those that result in consolidation of the investee, at fair value, with changes in the fair value recognized in earnings.
We use net asset value as a practical expedient for the fair value of partnership interests in private equity funds that are not accounted for under the equity method of accounting.
Investments in non-marketable equity securities that do not have readily determinable fair values and do not qualify for the practical expedient to measure the investment using a net asset value per share are recorded using the measurement alternative in ASU 2016-01, Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.
Impairment is recorded when there is evidence that the expected fair value of the investment has declined to below the recorded cost.
We have certain investments in unconsolidated affiliates accounted for under the equity method of accounting in which our carrying value exceeds the proportionate share of net assets of the unconsolidated affiliate.
In connection with this acquisition, we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement (“Credit Agreement”) pursuant to which we borrowed an aggregate of approximately $7.4 billion (approximately $524.5 million of which was rolled over from our existing credit facility).
In addition, the Credit Agreement includes a revolving credit facility of $250.0 million, of which $241.2 million was available as of June 30, 2018.
We plan to fund the acquisition with a combination of cash on hand and term loan debt.
The increase in revenues was also due to the favorable impact from foreign currency translation that added $1.9 million.


item3.txt
We do not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The information regarding certain legal proceedings in which we are involved as set forth in Note 12 – Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q) is incorporated by reference into this Item 1.


