The consolidated financial statements of AVX Corporation and its subsidiaries (“AVX” or the “Company”) include all accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries.
We have prepared the accompanying financial statements pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) for interim financial reporting.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States have been omitted in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC for interim financial statements.
These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  March 31, 2019.
Accordingly, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  March 31, 2019.
In  June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, “Financial Instruments – Credit Losses: Measurements of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments.” This standard requires the measurement and recognition of expected credit losses held at amortized cost.
This new standard replaces the use of forward-looking information to estimate credit losses and requires credit losses for available for sale debt securities to be recorded through an allowance for credit losses rather than a reduction in the amortized cost basis.
In  August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-14, “Compensation – Retirement Benefits – Defined Benefit Plans – General.” This standard removes certain disclosures that are not considered cost beneficial, clarifies certain required disclosures and added additional disclosures.
In  August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-15, “Customer’s Accounting For Implementation Costs Incurred In A Cloud Computing Arrangement That Is A Service Contract”.
This guidance reduces the complexity for the accounting for costs of implementing a cloud computing service arrangement and aligns the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software (and hosting arrangements that include an internal-use software license).
When available, we use the rate implicit in the lease to discount lease payments to present value; however, most of our leases do not provide a readily determinable implicit rate.
Therefore, we must estimate our incremental borrowing rate to discount the lease payments based on information available at lease commencement.
The Company paid $2,251 for its operating leases in the fiscal quarter ended  June 30, 2019, which are included in operating cash flows on the consolidated statement of cash flows.
Basic earnings per share are computed by dividing net earnings by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding for the period.
Diluted earnings per share are computed by dividing net earnings by the sum of (a) the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period and (b) the dilutive effect of potential common stock equivalents during the period.