Financial Statements 
The accompanying financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”). These accounting principles were applied on a basis consistent with those of the audited Consolidated Financial Statements contained in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) on February 28, 2018 (the “2017 Form 10-K”). In the opinion of the Company, the accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contain all adjustments (consisting of only normal recurring adjustments, except as noted elsewhere in the notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements) necessary for a fair statement of its financial position as of March 31, 2018, the results of its operations for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 and its cash flows for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017. Certain prior year balances have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. Such reclassifications did not affect total revenues, operating income or net income. These statements do not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP for annual financial statements. The Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contained herein should be read in conjunction with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and footnotes as of and for the year ended December 31, 2017, which were included in the 2017 Form 10-K. The December 31, 2017 Consolidated Balance Sheet data were derived from audited financial statements but do not include all disclosures required by GAAP for annual financial statements. The results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the expected results for any subsequent quarters or the full year.  
In August 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments. ASU 2016-15 addresses how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows under Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 230, Statement of Cash Flow, and other Topics. ASU 2016-15 is effective for the Company for its first quarter of fiscal 2018 and the guidance requires application using a retrospective method. The impact of the Company’s adoption of ASU 2016-15 to the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements was to reflect the presentation of debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs as cash outflows from financing activities within the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. The Company adopted ASU 2016-15, which did not have a material impact on the Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606). ASC 606 supersedes the revenue recognition requirements in ASC 605 and 985 and requires entities to recognize revenue when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to customers at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The Company adopted ASC 606 as of January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective transition method. See Note 2 for further details. 
Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Effective 
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments. ASU 2016-13 requires companies to measure credit losses utilizing a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires a consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates. ASU 2016-13 is effective for the Company for its first quarter of fiscal 2020 and earlier adoption is permitted beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. Application of the ASU is through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the effective date. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the pending adoption of ASU 2016-13 on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. This ASU is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842). This ASU would require lessees to recognize the following for all leases (with the exception of short-term leases) at the commencement date; (i) a lease liability, which is a lessee’s obligation to make lease payments arising from a lease, measured on a discounted basis; and (ii) a right-of-use asset, which is an asset that represents the lessee’s right to use, or control the use of, a specified asset for the lease term. Lessor accounting is largely unchanged under the amendments of this ASU. Additional disclosures will be required to allow the user to assess the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leasing activities. A modified retrospective transition approach is required for leases  
existing at the time of adoption. ASU 2016-02 is effective for the Company for its first quarter of fiscal 2019 and earlier adoption is permitted. The impact of the Company’s adoption of ASU 2016-02 to the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements will be to recognize the majority of the Company’s operating lease commitments as operating lease liabilities and right-of-use assets upon adoption, which will result in a material increase in the assets and liabilities recorded on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. The Company is continuing its assessment, which may identify additional impacts this ASU will have on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related disclosures and internal controls over financial reporting. 
On January 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASC 606 using the modified retrospective method for those contracts which were not completed as of the date of adoption. Results for reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2018 are presented under ASC 606, while prior period amounts continue to be reported in accordance with ASC 605 and 985. The most significant impact of the standard to the Company relates to the timing of revenue recognition for arrangements involving term licenses. Under ASC 606, the Company is required to recognize term license revenues upon the transfer of the license and recognize the associated maintenance revenues over the contract period, as opposed to the Company’s prior practice of recognizing both the term license and maintenance revenues ratably over the contract period. In addition, the Company is required to capitalize and amortize incremental costs of obtaining a contract, such as certain sales commission costs, over the expected customer relationship period if the Company expects to recover those costs. The Company previously expensed these costs over the length of the initial contract excluding any renewals.  
The Company recorded an increase to retained earnings of $65.8 million, or $47.9 million net of tax, as of January 1, 2018 due to the cumulative impact of adopting ASC 606, with the impact primarily related to the Company’s term license revenues. The impact to revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2018 related to these adjustments was a decrease of $11.8 million. 
The adoption of ASC 606 had no impact on the Company’s total cash flows from operations. 
Revenue Recognition 
Software-enabled Services Revenue 
The Company primarily offers software-enabled outsourcing services in which the Company utilizes its own software to offer comprehensive fund administration services for alternative investment managers, including fund manager services, transfer agency services, funds-of-funds services, tax processing and accounting. The Company also offers subscription-based on-demand software applications that are managed and hosted at the Company’s facilities. The software-enabled services arrangements provide an alternative for clients who do not wish to install, run and maintain complicated financial software. Under these arrangements, the client does not have the right to take possession of the software, rather, the Company agrees to provide access to its applications, remote use of its equipment to process transactions, access to client’s data stored on its equipment, and connectivity between its environment and the client’s computing systems.  
Software-enabled services are generally provided under contracts with initial terms of one to five years that require monthly or quarterly payments, and are subject to automatic annual renewal at the end of the initial term unless terminated by either party. 
In software-enabled services arrangements, the arrangement is a single performance obligation comprised of a series of distinct services that are substantially the same and have the same pattern of transfer to the customer (i.e. distinct months of service). The Company applies a measure of progress (typically time-based) to any fixed consideration and allocates variable consideration to the distinct periods of service based on usage or summarization of account information. These amounts may be constrained and are only included in revenue to the extent we do not expect a significant reversal when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is resolved. Revenue is generally recognized over the period the services are provided, which results in revenue recognition that corresponds with the value to the client of the services transferred to date relative to the remaining services promised. 
License, Maintenance and Related Revenue Agreements 
The Company generates revenues in the form of software license fees and related maintenance and services fees. License fees include perpetual license fees and term license fees which differ mainly in the duration over which the customer benefits from the software. Maintenance and services primarily consist of fees for maintenance services (including support and unspecified upgrades and enhancements when and if they are available) and to a lesser extent professional services which focus on both deployment and training the Company’s customers to fully leverage the use of its products although the user can benefit from the software without the Company’s assistance.  
Under ASC 606, the Company identifies a contract with a customer, identifies the performance obligations in the contract, determines the transaction price, allocates the transaction price to each performance obligation in the contract and recognizes revenues when (or as) the Company satisfies a performance obligation. 
Software license performance obligations are functional intellectual property that are distinct as the user can benefit from the software on its own as defined under ASC 606. Software license revenues are recognized at the point of time when the software license has been delivered. Term license fees are typically due in annual installments at the beginning of each annual period and we record a contract asset for amounts recognized as revenue in excess of amounts billed. 
The Company recognizes revenues from maintenance ratably over the term of the underlying maintenance contract term because the Company transfers control evenly by providing a stand-ready service. The term of the maintenance contract is usually one year. Renewals of maintenance contracts create new performance obligations that are satisfied over the term with the revenues recognized ratably over the term. 
Revenues from professional services consist mostly of services provided on a time and materials basis. The performance obligations are satisfied, and revenues are recognized, over time as the services are provided. 
In contracts with multiple performance obligations, the Company accounts for individual performance obligations separately if they are distinct. The Company allocates the transaction price to each performance obligation based on its relative standalone selling price out of total consideration of the contract. Standalone selling price is determined utilizing observable prices to the extent available. If the standalone selling price for a performance obligation is not directly observable, the Company estimates it maximizing the use of observable inputs. For maintenance and support, the Company determines the standalone selling price based on the price at which the Company separately sells a renewal contract and the economic relationship between licenses and maintenance. The Company determines the standalone selling price for sales of licenses using the residual approach. For professional services, the Company determines the standalone selling prices based on the price at which the Company separately sells those services. 
The Company occasionally enters into license agreements requiring significant customization of the Company’s software which are not material to the Company’s results of operations. The Company accounts for the license and professional service fees under these agreements as a single performance obligation, recognized over time using an input method during the development of the license. This method requires estimates to be made for costs to complete the agreement utilizing an estimate of development man-hours remaining. Revenue is recognized each period based on the hours incurred to date compared to the total hours expected to complete the project. Due to uncertainties inherent in the estimation process, it is at least reasonably possible that completion costs may be revised. Such revisions are recognized in the period in which the revisions are determined. Provisions for estimated losses on uncompleted contracts are determined on a contract-by-contract basis, and are made in the period in which such losses are first estimated or determined. 
Accounts Receivable, net is primarily comprised of billed and unbilled receivables for which we have an unconditional right to consideration, net of an allowance for doubtful accounts. 
Deferred revenues represent mostly unrecognized fees billed or collected for maintenance and professional services. Deferred revenues are recognized as (or when) the Company performs under the contract. Deferred revenues are recorded on a net basis with contract assets at the contract level. Accordingly, approximately $29.3 million of deferred revenue is presented net within contract assets arising from the same contracts. The amount of revenues recognized in the period that was included in the opening deferred revenues balance was $76.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018. 
As of March 31, 2018, revenue of approximately $266.3 million is expected to be recognized from remaining performance obligations for license, maintenance and related revenues, of which $174.1 million is expected to be recognized over the next twelve months. Software-enabled services are generally provided under contracts which are cancelable with 90 days’ notice.  
Revenue Disaggregation 
Costs of Revenues 
Costs of revenues include all costs, including depreciation and amortization, incurred to produce revenues. Incremental costs of obtaining a contract (e.g., sales commissions) are capitalized and amortized on a basis consistent with the pattern of transfer of goods or services to the customer to which the asset relates over the expected customer relationship period if the Company expects to recover those costs. The Company previously expensed these costs over the length of the initial contract excluding any renewals. The expected customer relationship period is determined based on average historical customer relationship periods, including expected renewals. Expected renewal periods are only included in the expected customer relationship period if commission amounts paid upon renewal are not commensurate with amounts paid on the initial contract. Incremental costs of obtaining a contract include only those costs the Company incurs to obtain a contract that it would not have incurred if the contract had not been obtained. The Company has determined that certain commissions programs meet the requirements to be capitalized. Certain sales commissions associated with multi-year contracts are subject to an employee service requirement. As an action other than each party approving the contract is required to trigger payment of these sales commissions, they are not considered incremental costs to obtain a contract and are expensed as incurred. These costs are included in selling, general and administrative expenses. 
The Company applies a practical expedient to expense sales commissions as incurred when the amortization period would have been one year or less.  
As a practical expedient, the Company does not account for significant financing components if the period between when the Company transfers the promised product or service to the client and when the client pays for that product or service will be one year or less.  
For the Company’s software-enabled services contracts which are cancelable with 90 days’ notice, the Company uses the practical expedient applicable to such contracts and has not disclosed the transaction price for the remaining performance obligations as of the end of each reporting period or when the Company expects to recognize this revenue. 
The Company records revenue net of any taxes assessed by governmental authorities. 
The above fair values, which are Level 2 liabilities, were computed based on comparable quoted market prices. The fair values of cash, accounts receivable, net, short-term borrowings, and accounts payable approximate the carrying amounts due to the short-term maturities of these instruments. 
Note 5—Earnings per Share 
Earnings per share (“EPS”) is calculated in accordance with the relevant standards. Basic EPS includes no dilution and is computed by dividing net income available to the Company’s common stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted EPS is computed by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common and common equivalent shares outstanding during the period. Common equivalent shares consist of stock options, stock appreciation rights (“SARs”), restricted stock units (“RSUs”) and restricted stock awards (“RSAs”) using the treasury stock method. Common equivalent shares are excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share if the effect of including such common equivalent shares is anti-dilutive because their total assumed proceeds exceed the average fair value of common stock for the period.  
Weighted average stock options and SARs representing 182,333 and 14,455,614 shares were outstanding for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, but were not included in the computation of diluted EPS because the effect of including them would be anti-dilutive.  
Dividends. In 2018, the Company paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.07 per share of common stock on March 15, 2018 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 1, 2018 totaling $14.5 million. In 2017, the Company paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.0625 per share of common stock on March 15, 2017 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 1, 2017, totaling $12.7 million. 
The effective tax rate was 17.2% and 17.4% for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The change in the effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was primarily due to the decrease in the domestic statutory tax rate from 35% to 21%, offset partially by the unfavorable impact of a tax on Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (“GILTI”). Both the domestic statutory tax rate decrease and GILTI tax became effective January 1, 2018 as a result of the Tax Cut and Jobs Act of 2017 (“Tax Act”) enacted into law in the U.S. on December 22, 2017. In December 2017, the SEC Staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin  
No. 118 (“SAB 118”) to provide guidance on how to implement the accounting required as a result of the Tax Act. Due to the complexity of the Tax Act, SAB 118 allowed companies to record provisional amounts, or reasonable estimates of the tax effects of the Act during a measurement period not to exceed one year beyond the enactment date. Accordingly, we provided provisional amounts for the period ending December 31, 2017 relating to the deemed repatriation provisions, revaluation of deferred taxes, other international provisions and the related state tax impacts. We have not yet completed our accounting related to these items and we did not record any significant adjustments related to our provisional amounts during the period ending March 31, 2018. We will continue to analyze the provisional amounts in conjunction with guidance issued by the Department of Treasury in order to complete our accounting during the measurement period. 
From time to time, the Company is subject to legal proceedings and claims. In the opinion of the Company's management, the Company is not involved in any litigation or proceedings that would have a material adverse effect on the Company or its business. 
On July 8, 2015, the Company issued $600.0 million aggregate principal amount of 5.875% Senior Notes due 2023 (the “Senior Notes”). The Senior Notes are jointly and severally and fully and unconditionally guaranteed, in each case subject to certain customary release provisions, by substantially all wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries of the Company that guarantee the Company’s Amended Senior Secured Credit Agreement (collectively “Guarantors”). All of the Guarantors are 100% owned by the Company. All other subsidiaries of the Company, either direct or indirect, do not guarantee the Senior Notes (“Non-Guarantors”). The Guarantors also unconditionally guarantee the Amended Senior Secured Credit Agreement. There are no significant restrictions on the ability of the Company or any of the subsidiaries that are Guarantors to obtain funds from its subsidiaries by dividend or loan.  
Equity offering. In April 2018, the Company completed a public offering of its common stock. The offering included 30,262,250 newly issued shares of common stock sold by the Company at an offering price to the public of $47.50 per share for which the Company received total net proceeds of approximately $1.4 billion. 
Acquisition of DST Systems, Inc. On April 16, 2018, the Company purchased all of the outstanding stock of DST Systems, Inc. (“DST”) for approximately $5.0 billion in cash, plus the costs, fees, expenses and debt assumed in connection with the transaction. In connection with this acquisition, the Company entered into an amended and restated senior secured credit facility pursuant to which the Company borrowed an aggregate of approximately $7.4 billion (approximately $524.5 million of which was rolled over from the Company’s existing credit facility). A portion of these proceeds was used to repay the Company’s Senior Notes and the remaining amounts outstanding under the Company’s existing credit facility. In addition, the amended and restated senior secured credit facility includes an undrawn revolving credit facility of $250.0 million. DST is a global provider of specialized technology, strategic advisory and business operations outsourcing to the financial services and healthcare industries. The net assets and results of operations of DST will be included in the Company’s consolidated financial statements from April 16, 2018. The relevant business combination disclosures will be included in the Company’s consolidated financial statements once preliminary accounting has been completed. 
The information regarding certain legal proceedings in which we are involved as set forth in Note 9 – Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q) is incorporated by reference into this Item 1. 
Item 1A.   
Risk Factors 
Risks Relating to Our Business 
We derive our revenues from the delivery of products and services to clients primarily in the financial services and healthcare industries. Demand for our products and services among companies in those industries could decline for many reasons. If demand for our products or services decreases or any of the industries we serve decline, our business and our operating results could be adversely affected. 
Consolidations or failures among our clients or within their respective industries could adversely affect us by causing a decline in demand for our products and services. 
As a result of our acquisitions of DST in April 2018, CommonWealth Fund Services Ltd. (“CommonWealth”) in October 2017, Conifer Financial Services (“Conifer”) and Wells Fargo’s Global Fund Services business (“GFS”) in December 2016, Citigroup Alternative Investor Services business (“Citigroup AIS”) in March 2016, Advent Software, Inc. (“Advent”) in July 2015 and GlobeOp Financial Services S.A. (“GlobeOp”) in May 2012, a higher percentage of our clients are hedge funds or funds of hedge funds. We derive significant revenues from asset management, administration and distribution contracts with such clients. Under these contracts, the fees paid to us are based on a variety of factors, including the market value of assets under management, assets under administration and number of transactions processed. Assets under management, assets under administration or the number of transactions processed may decline for various reasons, causing results to vary. Factors that could decrease assets under management and assets under administration (and therefore revenues) include declines in the market value of the assets in the funds (and accounts as applicable) managed, administered and distributed, redemptions and other withdrawals from, or shifts among, the funds (and accounts as applicable) managed, administered and distributed, as well as market conditions generally. 
These clients and our business relating to them are affected by trends, developments and risks associated with the global hedge fund industry. In addition, the market environment for hedge funds involves risk and has suffered significant turmoil, including as a result of substantial changes in global economies, political uncertainty, stock market declines and new regulatory initiatives. Even in the absence of such factors, the global hedge fund industry is subject to fluctuations in assets under management that are impossible to predict or anticipate. Further, investor demand for hedge funds has experienced recent declines and increased withdrawals as a result of poor performance relative to benchmark indices and increased negative investor sentiment on fees. These risks and trends could significantly and adversely affect some or all of our hedge fund clients, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, market forces have negatively impacted liquidity for many of the financial instruments in which hedge fund client’s trade, which, in turn, could negatively impact our ability to access independent pricing sources for valuing those instruments. 
Our revenues may decrease due to declines in the levels of participation and activity in the securities markets. 
Our role as a fund administrator has in the past, and may in the future, expose us to claims and litigation from clients, their investors, regulators or other third-parties. 
An increase in subaccounting services performed by brokerage firms has and will continue to adversely impact our revenues. 
Catastrophic events may adversely affect our business. 
A war, terrorist attack, natural disaster, pandemic or other catastrophe may adversely affect our business. A catastrophic event could have a direct negative impact on us or an indirect impact on us by, for example, affecting our clients, the financial markets or the overall economy and reducing our ability to provide, our clients’ ability to use, and the demand for, our products and services. The potential for a direct effect on our business operations is due primarily to our significant investment in infrastructure. Although we maintain redundant facilities and have contingency plans in place to protect against both man-made and natural threats, it is impossible to fully anticipate and protect against all potential catastrophes. A computer virus, physical or cyber security breach, criminal act, military action, power or communication failure, flood, severe storm or the like could lead to service interruptions and data losses for clients, disruptions to our operations, or damage to important facilities. In addition, such an event may cause clients to cancel their agreements with us for our products or services. Any of these events could adversely affect our business, results of operation and financial condition. 
In providing our software-enabled services to our customers, we depend upon IT infrastructure that is primarily managed by our firm, but we also depend on third-party service providers to provide some of the IT infrastructure on which we rely. Although we seek to ensure that appropriate security and other standards are maintained by these third-parties, these third-parties are also subject to the risks discussed in the preceding risk factor, and there is no guarantee that they will maintain systems and procedures sufficient to protect against system failures and security breaches, including as a result of cyber-attacks. 
In addition, the third-parties with which we do business or which facilitate our business activities, including financial intermediaries, are susceptible to the risks described in the preceding risk factor (including regarding the third-parties with which they are similarly interconnected), and our or their business operations and activities may therefore be adversely affected, perhaps materially, by failures, terminations, errors or malfeasance by, or attacks or constraints on, one or more financial, technology or infrastructure institutions or intermediaries with whom they are interconnected or conduct business. 
We have substantial operations and a significant number of employees in India and we are therefore subject to regulatory, economic and political uncertainties in India. 
We currently have approximately 4,038 employees located in India. The economy of India may differ favorably or unfavorably from the U.S. economy and our business may be adversely affected by the general economic conditions and economic and fiscal policy in India, including changes in exchange rates and controls, interest rates and taxation policies. In particular, in recent years, India’s government has adopted policies that are designed to promote foreign investment, including significant tax incentives, relaxation of regulatory restrictions, liberalized import and export duties and preferential rules on foreign investment and repatriations. These policies may not continue. In addition, we are subject to risks relating to social stability, political, economic or diplomatic developments affecting India in the future. 
India faces major challenges in the years ahead sustaining the economic growth that it has experienced over the past several years. These challenges include the need for substantial infrastructure development and improving access to healthcare and education. Our ability to recruit, train and retain qualified employees and develop and operate our facilities in India could be adversely affected if  
We are dependent on our senior management and their continued performance and productivity. 
We are dependent on the continued efforts of the members of our senior management. The loss of any of the members of our senior management may cause a significant disruption in our business, jeopardize existing customer relationships, impair our compliance efforts as a public company, and have a material adverse effect on our business objectives. We do not maintain key man life insurance policies for any senior officer or manager. 
If we cannot attract, train and retain qualified employees, we may not be able to provide adequate technical expertise and customer service to our clients. 
Our success and ability to compete depends in part upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology and other confidential information. We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark law, and nondisclosure agreements, license agreements and technical measures to protect our proprietary technology and other confidential information. We have registered trademarks for some of our products and will continue to evaluate the registration of additional trademarks as appropriate. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, distributors, clients and potential clients. However, these efforts may be insufficient to prevent those parties or others from infringing, misappropriating, violating or asserting rights in our intellectual property, confidential information or other technology and our proprietary technology and confidential information may be subject to embezzlement, theft, or other similar illegal behavior by our employees or third-parties. In addition, our employees, distributors, clients and potential clients may breach our confidentiality agreements and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. Furthermore, it may be possible for unauthorized third-parties to copy portions of our products or to reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary information. If a third-party were to gain unauthorized access to or independently develop the confidential or proprietary information we possess, we could suffer a loss of revenues, we could experience an adverse impact on our  
We incorporate open source software into a limited number of our software products. We monitor our use of open source software in an effort to avoid subjecting our products to unfavorable conditions or conditions we do not intend. Some open source licenses require that source code subject to the license be disclosed to third-parties, grant such third-parties the right to modify and redistribute that source code and a requirement that the source code for any software derived from it be disclosed. If we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain open source licenses, be required to release the source code of our proprietary software to the public. Although we believe that we have complied with our obligations under the applicable licenses for open source software that we use, there is little or no legal precedent governing the interpretation of many of the terms of certain of these licenses. As a result, the potential impact of these terms is uncertain and may result in unanticipated obligations or restrictions regarding those of our products, technologies or solutions affected. 
We have acquired and may acquire important technology rights through our acquisitions and have often incorporated and may incorporate features of these technologies across many of our products and services. As a result, we are subject to the above risks and the additional risk that the seller of the technology rights may not have appropriately protected the intellectual property rights we acquired. Indemnification and other rights under applicable acquisition documents are limited in term and scope and therefore provide us with only limited protection. 
We may be unable to adapt to rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards and regulatory requirements. 
Undetected software design defects, errors or failures, or employee errors, may result in defects, delays, loss of our clients’ data, litigation against us and harm to our reputation and business. 
Because our platform could be used to collect and store personal information of our customers’ employees or customers, privacy concerns could result in additional cost and liability to us or inhibit use of our platform. 
Personal privacy has become a significant issue in the U.S. and in many other countries where we offer our solutions or may offer them in the future. The regulatory framework for privacy issues worldwide is currently evolving, is not uniform and is likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. Many federal, state and foreign government bodies and agencies have adopted or are considering adopting laws and regulations regarding the collection, use, disclosure, control, security and deletion of personal information. In the U.S., these include, without limitation, laws and regulations promulgated by states, as well as rules and regulations promulgated under the authority of the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) and federal financial regulatory bodies. Internationally, most of the jurisdictions in which we operate have established their own data security and privacy legal frameworks, many of which are broader in scope, more restrictive and impose greater obligations on us and our customers. For instance, effective May 2018, the European Union’s (“E.U.”) General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”), a new E.U.-wide legal framework to govern data collection use and sharing and related consumer privacy rights, will strengthen and unify data protection rules for individuals within the E.U. The GDPR also addresses export of personal data outside the E.U. Many of these obligations are updated frequently and subject to interpretation by various regulatory bodies and thus require ongoing monitoring. In addition to government regulation, privacy advocacy and industry groups may propose new and different self-regulatory standards that either legally or contractually apply to us. As a result of uncertainty regarding the interpretation and application of privacy and data protection-related laws, regulations, and self-regulatory requirements, it is possible that these laws, regulations, and requirements may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our existing data handling practices or the technological features of our solutions. If so, in addition to the possibility of fines, lawsuits and other claims, we could be required to fundamentally change our business activities and practices or modify our solutions, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Any inability to adequately address privacy or data protection-related concerns, even if unfounded, or comply with applicable privacy or data protection-related laws, regulations and policies, could result in additional cost and liability to us, damage our reputation, inhibit sales and harm our business.  
Furthermore, the costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, the laws, regulations, standards and policies that are applicable to the businesses of our customers may limit the use and adoption of, and reduce the overall demand for, our solutions.  Also, privacy concerns, whether valid or not valid, may inhibit market adoption of our solutions, particularly in foreign countries. 
Our proprietary applications and related consulting and other services include the processing or clearing of financial and healthcare transactions for our clients and their customers and the design of benefit plans and compliance programs. The dollar amount of transactions processed or cleared is vastly higher than the revenues we derive from providing these services. In the event we make transaction processing or operational errors, or mismanage any process, we could be exposed to claims for any resulting processing delays, disclosure of protected information, miscalculations, mishandling of pass-through disbursements or other processes, and failure to follow a client’s instructions or meet specifications. Additionally, we may be subject to claims or liability resulting from a failure of third parties (including regulatory authorities) to recognize the limitations of our role as our clients’ agent or consultant, and we may be subject to claims or liability resulting from fraud committed by third parties. We may be exposed to the risk of counterparty breaches or failure to perform. We may be subject to claims, including class actions, for reimbursements, losses or damages arising from any transaction processing or operational error, or from process mismanagement. Because of the sensitive nature of the financial and healthcare transactions we process, our liability and any alleged damages may significantly exceed the fees we receive for performing the service at issue. Litigation could include class action claims based upon, among other theories, various regulatory requirements and consumer protection and privacy laws that class action plaintiffs may attempt to use to assert private rights of action. Any of these claims and related settlements or judgments could affect our operating results, damage our reputation, decrease demand for our products and services, or cause us to make costly operating changes.  
Investment decisions with respect to cash balances, market returns or losses on investments, and limits on insurance applicable to cash balances held in bank and brokerage accounts, including those held by us and as agent on behalf of our clients, could expose us to losses of such cash balances and adversely affect revenues attributable to cash balance deposit investments. 
As part of our transaction processing and other services, we maintain and manage large bank and investment accounts containing client funds, which we hold as agent, as well as operational funds. Our revenues include investment earnings related to client fund cash balances. Our choices in selecting investments, or market conditions that affect the rate of return on or the availability of investments, could have an adverse effect on the level of such revenues. The amounts held in our operational and client deposit accounts could exceed the limits of government insurance programs of organizations such as the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Securities Investors Protection Corporation, exposing us to the risk of loss. Any substantial loss would have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and our financial condition. 
Our business is subject to evolving regulations and increased scrutiny from regulators. 
Typically a state’s department of insurance regulates much of our healthcare business; however, each state’s statutes dictate such authority. Any of these regulations may limit or curtail our activities, including activities that might be profitable, and changes to existing regulations, or the interpretations thereof, may affect our ability to continue to offer our existing products and services, or to offer products and services we may wish to offer in the future. 
The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions, including the U.K. Bribery Act (“Bribery Act”), generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or other commercial advantage. The FCPA also imposes accounting standards and requirements on publicly traded U.S. corporations and their foreign affiliates which are intended to prevent the diversion of corporate funds to the payment of bribes and other improper payments, and to prevent the establishment of “off books” slush funds from which such improper payments can be made. We and our clients operate in a number of jurisdictions that may pose a risk of potential FCPA or Bribery Act violations.  
Changes in, and any violation by our clients of, applicable laws and regulations (whether related to the products and services we provide or otherwise) could diminish their business or financial condition and thus their demand for our products and services or could increase our cost of continuing to provide our products and services to such industries. Demand could also decrease if we do not continue to offer products and services that help our clients comply with regulations. For example, our accounts in the healthcare industry are impacted by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 (the “Affordable Care Act”), including the Health Insurance Marketplace. Changes to the Affordable Care Act may be enacted by Congress in response to the current administration’s stated agenda, and we cannot predict the impact that will have on our clients and their demand for our products and services. 
In addition, we cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our internal operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted. While our policies mandate compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that we will be completely effective in ensuring our compliance with all applicable anti-corruption laws. A failure to comply with these laws, rules or regulations, or allegations of such noncompliance, could adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition. 
For the three months ended March 31, 2018, the provision for income taxes includes expenses related to GILTI and non-deductible officer’s compensation, offset partially by a benefit recorded for the Foreign-Derived Intangible Income deduction. As of March 31, 2018, we do not expect to be materially impacted by the Base Erosion and Anti-Abuse Tax. We will continue to assess our income tax receivables and liabilities and deferred tax assets and liabilities as further guidance is issued regarding provisions of the  
A substantial portion of our revenues are derived, and a substantial portion of our operations are conducted, outside the U.S. 
Because a significant portion of our business is conducted outside the U.S. and significant revenues are generated outside the U.S., we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. Fluctuations in currencies relative to currencies in which our earnings are generated also make it more difficult to perform period-to-period comparisons of our reported results of operations. Because our Consolidated Financial Statements are reported in U.S. dollars, translation of sales or earnings generated in other currencies into U.S. dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the reported amount of those sales or earnings. In addition, we incur currency transaction risk whenever we enter into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a currency other than the local currency of the transacting entity. Given the volatility of exchange rates, we cannot be assured we will be able to effectively manage our currency translation or transaction risk, and significant changes in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could adversely affect our financial statements. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for further discussion on the foreign currency translation impact on operating results and financial condition. 
We do not currently engage in hedging activities. Changes in economic or political conditions globally and in any of the countries in which we operate could result in exchange rate movements, new currency or exchange controls or other restrictions being imposed on our operations. 
From time to time we add new investment strategies to our investment product offerings by providing the initial cash investments as “seed capital.” The seed capital investments may decline in value. A significant decline in their value could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or operating results. We are a limited partner in various private equity funds and have future capital commitments related to certain private equity fund investments. These investments are illiquid. Generally, private equity fund securities are non-transferable or are subject to long holding periods, and withdrawals from the private equity firm partnerships are typically not permitted. Even when transfer restrictions do not apply, there is generally no public market for the  
securities.  Therefore, we may not be able to sell the securities at a time when we desire to do so.  We may not always be able to sell those investments at the same or higher prices than we paid for them.  We also participate in joint ventures with other companies.  These joint venture investments could require further capital contributions. 
We do not control certain businesses in which we have significant ownership.  
A change or modification in accounting policies can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective, including the impact of the adoption and implementation of the accounting standard update on revenue recognition issued in May 2014 by the FASB. Under the new standard, we recognize term license revenues upfront at time of delivery rather than ratably over the related contract period. Additionally, under the new standard, we capitalize and amortize certain direct costs, such as commissions, over the expected customer life rather than expensing them as incurred. While the adoption of the new standard does not change the cash flows received from our contracts with customers, its adoption could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. New pronouncements and varying interpretations of existing pronouncements have occurred with frequency and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules, or changes to the interpretations of existing rules, could lead to changes in our accounting practices, and such changes could materially adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. 
A material weakness in our internal controls could have a material adverse effect on us. 
Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot do so, our reputation and operating results could be harmed. A material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could adversely impact our ability to provide timely and accurate financial information. Even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. In addition, controls can be circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. Over time, controls may become inadequate because changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may occur. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. If we are unable to report financial information timely and accurately or to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures, our stock price could be negatively impacted and we could be subject to, among other things, regulatory or enforcement actions by the SEC, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 
Risks Relating to Our Indebtedness 
In addition, the agreement governing our senior credit facility contains financial and other restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests, and the additional indebtedness we incurred to fund the DST acquisition or otherwise may also contain restrictive covenants. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debts. 
To service our indebtedness, we require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. 
Following the DST acquisition and our entry into the New Credit Agreement, we currently expect to make periodic interest payments of approximately $317.8 million annually. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. 
If our business fails to generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings are not available to us, we may not be able to pay our indebtedness or fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we cannot service our indebtedness, we may have to take actions such as selling assets, seeking additional equity or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and joint ventures. We may not be able to effect such actions, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. 
Restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. 
In addition, the New Credit Agreement also requires us to maintain compliance with specified leverage ratios. Our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by events beyond our control, and these provisions could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions, meet capital needs or otherwise conduct our business activities and plans. 
Our inability to comply with any of these provisions could result in a default under one or more of the agreements governing our indebtedness.  If such a default occurs under one such agreement, the creditors under another debt agreement may elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable.  In addition, the lenders under our New Credit Agreement would have the right to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings. 
If we are unable to repay outstanding borrowings when due, the lenders under our New Credit Agreement also have the right to proceed against the collateral, including our available cash and substantially all of our domestic assets and the assets of our domestic subsidiaries, granted to them to secure the indebtedness under that facility. If the indebtedness under our New Credit Agreement were to be accelerated, we cannot assure you that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full that indebtedness and our other indebtedness. 
Risks Relating to Our Acquisition of DST Systems, Inc.  
The anticipated benefits of our acquisition of DST may not be realized or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected.  
The success of our acquisition of DST will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings derived from this transaction and our ability to integrate the two organizations and businesses. The combination of two independent businesses is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. As a result, DST and we will devote significant management attention and resources prior to closing to prepare for integrating, and we will devote significant management attention and resources post-closing to integrate the business practices and operations of both organizations. The integration process may disrupt the businesses and, if implemented ineffectively, would impair the realization of the full expected benefits.  
In addition, we continue to evaluate our estimates of synergies to be realized from the acquisition, so our actual cost-savings could differ materially from our current estimates. We cannot assure you that we will achieve the full amount of cost-savings on the schedule anticipated or at all.  
We will incur costs as a result of our acquisition of DST.  
We will incur substantial expenses in connection with our acquisition of DST and over a period of time following the completion of the acquisition.  While we have assumed that a certain level of transaction expenses will be incurred, factors beyond our control could affect the total amount or the timing of these expenses.  Many of the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately.  Any increase in these estimated expenses or change in the timing of these expenses could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  
Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock 
William C. Stone, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, exerts significant control over our Company. 
As of May 2, 2018, William C. Stone, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owned approximately 14.2% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. We are party to a stockholders’ agreement with Mr. Stone, pursuant to which Mr. Stone has the right to nominate two members of our board of directors, one of which will be Mr. Stone for so long as he is our Chief Executive Officer. As a result, Mr. Stone has significant influence over our policy and affairs and matters requiring stockholder approval. 
Our management has broad discretion in the use of our existing cash resources and may not use such funds effectively. 
Our management has broad discretion in the application of our cash resources. Accordingly, our stockholders will have to rely upon the judgment of our management with respect to our existing cash resources, with only limited information concerning management’s specific intentions. Our management may spend our cash resources in ways that our stockholders may not desire or that may not yield a favorable return. The failure by our management to apply these funds effectively could harm our business. 
Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our Company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. 
The existence of the foregoing provisions and anti-takeover measures could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. They could also deter potential acquirers of our Company, thereby reducing the likelihood that our stockholders could receive a premium for their shares of common stock in an acquisition. 
The exhibits listed in the Exhibit Index immediately preceding such exhibits are filed as part of this Report. 
Schedules have been omitted from this filing pursuant to Item 601(b)(2) of Regulation S-K. The Registrant agrees to furnish supplementally a copy of any omitted schedule to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon its request; provided, however, that the Registrant may request confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Exchange Act for any schedule so furnished. 
submitted electronically herewith 
