Risk Factors 
Risks Relating to Our Business 
We derive our revenues from the delivery of products and services to clients primarily in the financial services and healthcare industries. Demand for our products and services among companies in those industries could decline for many reasons. If demand for our products or services decreases or any of the industries we serve decline, our business and our operating results could be adversely affected. 
In addition, any other events that adversely affect our clients’ businesses, rates of growth or numbers of clients they serve could decrease demand for our products and services and the number of transactions we process. Events that could adversely affect our clients’ businesses include decreased demand for our clients’ products and services, adverse conditions in our clients’ markets or adverse economic conditions generally. We may be unsuccessful in predicting the needs of changing industries and whether potential clients will accept our products or services. We also may invest in technology or infrastructure for specific clients and not realize additional revenue from such investments. If trends or events do not occur as we expect, our business could be negatively impacted. 
We may not achieve the anticipated benefits from our acquisitions and may face difficulties in integrating our acquisitions. 
Consolidations or failures among our clients or within their respective industries could adversely affect us by causing a decline in demand for our products and services. 
These clients and our business relating to them are affected by trends, developments and risks associated with the global hedge fund industry. In addition, the market environment for hedge funds involves risk and has suffered significant turmoil, including as a result of substantial changes in global economies, political uncertainty, stock market declines and new regulatory initiatives. Even in the absence of such factors, the global hedge fund industry is subject to fluctuations in assets under management that are impossible to predict or anticipate. Further, investor demand for hedge funds has experienced recent declines and increased withdrawals as a result of poor performance relative to benchmark indices and increased negative investor sentiment on fees. These risks and trends could significantly and adversely affect some or all of our hedge fund clients, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, market forces have negatively impacted liquidity for many of the financial instruments in which hedge fund client’s trade, which, in turn, could negatively impact our ability to access independent pricing sources for valuing those instruments. 
Our revenues may decrease due to declines in the levels of participation and activity in the securities markets. 
If we are unable to retain and attract clients, our revenues and net income would remain stagnant or decline. 
In the financial and healthcare markets we serve, we compete based on a variety of factors, including investment performance, the range of products or services offered, brand recognition, business reputation, financial strength, stability and continuity of client and other intermediary relationships, quality of service, and level of fees charged for products and services.  The market for financial and healthcare services software and services is competitive, rapidly evolving and highly sensitive to new product and service introductions and marketing efforts by industry participants.  The markets we serve are also highly fragmented and served by numerous firms that target only local markets or specific client types.  We also face competition from information systems developed and serviced internally by the IT departments of financial services firms.  Some of our current and potential competitors may have significantly greater financial, technical, distribution and marketing resources, generate higher revenues and have greater name recognition. Our current or potential competitors may develop products comparable or superior to those developed by us, or adapt more quickly to new technologies, evolving industry trends or changing client or regulatory requirements.  It is also possible that our competitors may enter into alliances with each other or other third-parties, and through such alliances, acquire increased market share.  Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share.  Accordingly, our failure to successfully compete in any of our material businesses could have a material adverse effect on results of operations.  Competition could also affect the revenue mix of products or services we provide, resulting in decreased revenues in lines of business with higher profit margins, and our business may not grow as expected and may decline. 
Our role as a fund administrator has in the past, and may in the future, expose us to claims and litigation from clients, their investors, regulators or other third-parties. 
An increase in subaccounting services performed by brokerage firms has and will continue to adversely impact our revenues. 
Catastrophic events may adversely affect our business. 
A war, terrorist attack, natural disaster, pandemic or other catastrophe may adversely affect our business. A catastrophic event could have a direct negative impact on us or an indirect impact on us by, for example, affecting our clients, the financial markets or the overall economy and reducing our ability to provide, our clients’ ability to use, and the demand for, our products and services. The potential for a direct effect on our business operations is due primarily to our significant investment in infrastructure. Although we maintain redundant facilities and have contingency plans in place to protect against both man-made and natural threats, it is impossible to fully anticipate and protect against all potential catastrophes. A computer virus, physical or cyber security breach, criminal act, military action, power or communication failure, flood, severe storm or the like could lead to service interruptions and data losses for clients, disruptions to our operations, or damage to important facilities. In addition, such an event may cause clients to cancel their agreements with us for our products or services. Any of these events could adversely affect our business, results of operation and financial condition. 
Our software-enabled services may be subject to disruptions, attacks or failures that could adversely affect our reputation and our business. 
Our software-enabled services maintain and process confidential data and process trades and perform other back-office functions, including wiring funds, on behalf of our clients, some of which is critical to their business operations. For example, our trading systems maintain account and trading information for our clients and their customers. Our internal technology infrastructure on which our software-enabled services depend may be subject to disruptions or may otherwise fail to operate properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors, including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control and that could  
If third-party service providers on which we rely, or other third-parties with which we do business or which facilitate our business activities, suffer disruptions to their IT systems, our business could be harmed. 
In providing our software-enabled services to our customers, we depend upon IT infrastructure that is primarily managed by our firm, but we also depend on third-party service providers to provide some of the IT infrastructure on which we rely. Although we seek to ensure that appropriate security and other standards are maintained by these third-parties, these third-parties are also subject to the risks discussed in the preceding risk factor, and there is no guarantee that they will maintain systems and procedures sufficient to protect against system failures and security breaches, including as a result of cyber-attacks. 
In addition, the third-parties with which we do business or which facilitate our business activities, including financial intermediaries, are susceptible to the risks described in the preceding risk factor (including regarding the third-parties with which they are similarly interconnected), and our or their business operations and activities may therefore be adversely affected, perhaps materially, by failures, terminations, errors or malfeasance by, or attacks or constraints on, one or more financial, technology or infrastructure institutions or intermediaries with whom they are interconnected or conduct business. 
We have substantial operations and a significant number of employees in India and we are therefore subject to regulatory, economic and political uncertainties in India. 
We currently have approximately 4,038 employees located in India. The economy of India may differ favorably or unfavorably from the U.S. economy and our business may be adversely affected by the general economic conditions and economic and fiscal policy in India, including changes in exchange rates and controls, interest rates and taxation policies. In particular, in recent years, India’s government has adopted policies that are designed to promote foreign investment, including significant tax incentives, relaxation of regulatory restrictions, liberalized import and export duties and preferential rules on foreign investment and repatriations. These policies may not continue. In addition, we are subject to risks relating to social stability, political, economic or diplomatic developments affecting India in the future. 
We are dependent on our senior management and their continued performance and productivity. 
We are dependent on the continued efforts of the members of our senior management. The loss of any of the members of our senior management may cause a significant disruption in our business, jeopardize existing customer relationships, impair our compliance efforts as a public company, and have a material adverse effect on our business objectives. We do not maintain key man life insurance policies for any senior officer or manager. 
If we cannot attract, train and retain qualified employees, we may not be able to provide adequate technical expertise and customer service to our clients. 
Our success and ability to compete depends in part upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology and other confidential information. We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark law, and nondisclosure agreements, license agreements and technical measures to protect our proprietary technology and other confidential information. We have registered trademarks for some of our products and will continue to evaluate the registration of additional trademarks as appropriate. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, distributors, clients and potential clients. However, these efforts may be insufficient to prevent those parties or others from infringing, misappropriating, violating or asserting rights in our intellectual property, confidential information or other technology and our proprietary technology and confidential information may be subject to embezzlement, theft, or other similar illegal behavior by our employees or third-parties. In addition, our employees, distributors, clients and potential clients may breach our confidentiality agreements and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. Furthermore, it may be possible for unauthorized third-parties to copy portions of our products or to reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary information. If a third-party were to gain unauthorized access to or independently develop the confidential or proprietary information we possess, we could suffer a loss of revenues, we could experience an adverse impact on our  
We incorporate open source software into a limited number of our software products. We monitor our use of open source software in an effort to avoid subjecting our products to unfavorable conditions or conditions we do not intend. Some open source licenses require that source code subject to the license be disclosed to third-parties, grant such third-parties the right to modify and redistribute that source code and a requirement that the source code for any software derived from it be disclosed. If we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain open source licenses, be required to release the source code of our proprietary software to the public. Although we believe that we have complied with our obligations under the applicable licenses for open source software that we use, there is little or no legal precedent governing the interpretation of many of the terms of certain of these licenses. As a result, the potential impact of these terms is uncertain and may result in unanticipated obligations or restrictions regarding those of our products, technologies or solutions affected. 
We have acquired and may acquire important technology rights through our acquisitions and have often incorporated and may incorporate features of these technologies across many of our products and services. As a result, we are subject to the above risks and the additional risk that the seller of the technology rights may not have appropriately protected the intellectual property rights we acquired. Indemnification and other rights under applicable acquisition documents are limited in term and scope and therefore provide us with only limited protection. 
We may be unable to adapt to rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards and regulatory requirements. 
Rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and regulatory requirements and new product and service introductions characterize the market for our products and services. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to enhance our existing products and services and to develop and introduce new products and services to keep pace with such changes and developments and to meet changing client needs. The process of developing our software products is complex and is expected to become increasingly complex and expensive in the future due to the introduction of new platforms, operating systems and  
Undetected software design defects, errors or failures, or employee errors, may result in defects, delays, loss of our clients’ data, litigation against us and harm to our reputation and business. 
Our software products are highly complex and sophisticated and could contain design defects or software errors that are difficult to detect and correct. Errors or bugs in our software may affect the ability of our products to work with other hardware or software products, delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products, result in the loss of client data, damage our reputation, affect market acceptance of our products or result in the rejection of our products by the market, cause loss of revenues, divert development resources, increase product liability and warranty claims, and increase service and support costs. We cannot be certain that, despite testing by us and our clients, errors will not be found in new products or new versions of products. Moreover, our clients engage in complex trading activities and this complexity increases the likelihood that our employees may make errors. Employee errors, poor employee performance or misconduct may be difficult to detect and deter. These product defects or errors in the product operations, or employee errors, poor performance or misconduct, could cause damages to our clients for which they may assert claims or lawsuits against us. The cost of defending such a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, could be substantial and could divert management’s attention and result in reputational harm. In addition, if our business liability insurance coverage proves inadequate with respect to a claim or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, we may be liable for payment of substantial damages. Any or all of these potential consequences could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 
Because our platform could be used to collect and store personal information of our customers’ employees or customers, privacy concerns could result in additional cost and liability to us or inhibit use of our platform. 
Personal privacy has become a significant issue in the U.S. and in many other countries where we offer our solutions or may offer them in the future. The regulatory framework for privacy issues worldwide is currently evolving, is not uniform and is likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. Many federal, state and foreign government bodies and agencies have adopted or are considering adopting laws and regulations regarding the collection, use, disclosure, control, security and deletion of personal information. In the U.S., these include, without limitation, laws and regulations promulgated by states, as well as rules and regulations promulgated under the authority of the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) and federal financial regulatory bodies. Internationally, most of the jurisdictions in which we operate have established their own data security and privacy legal frameworks, many of which are broader in scope, more restrictive and impose greater obligations on us and our customers. For instance, effective May 2018, the European Union’s (“E.U.”) General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”), a new E.U.-wide legal framework to govern data collection use and sharing and related consumer privacy rights, will strengthen and unify data protection rules for individuals within the E.U. The GDPR also addresses export of personal data outside the E.U. Many of these obligations are updated frequently and subject to interpretation by various regulatory bodies and thus require ongoing monitoring. In addition to government regulation, privacy advocacy and industry groups may propose new and different self-regulatory standards that either legally or contractually apply to us. As a result of uncertainty regarding the interpretation and application of privacy and data protection-related laws, regulations, and self-regulatory requirements, it is possible that these laws, regulations, and requirements may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our existing data handling practices or the technological features of our solutions. If so, in addition to the possibility of fines, lawsuits and other claims, we could be required to fundamentally change our business activities and practices or modify our solutions, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Any inability to adequately address privacy or data protection-related concerns, even if unfounded, or comply with applicable privacy or data protection-related laws, regulations and policies, could result in additional cost and liability to us, damage our reputation, inhibit sales and harm our business.  
Furthermore, the costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, the laws, regulations, standards and policies that are applicable to the businesses of our customers may limit the use and adoption of, and reduce the overall demand for, our solutions.  Also, privacy concerns, whether valid or not valid, may inhibit market adoption of our solutions, particularly in foreign countries. 
Our proprietary applications and related consulting and other services include the processing or clearing of financial and healthcare transactions for our clients and their customers and the design of benefit plans and compliance programs. The dollar amount of transactions processed or cleared is vastly higher than the revenues we derive from providing these services. In the event we make transaction processing or operational errors, or mismanage any process, we could be exposed to claims for any resulting processing delays, disclosure of protected information, miscalculations, mishandling of pass-through disbursements or other processes, and failure to follow a client’s instructions or meet specifications. Additionally, we may be subject to claims or liability resulting from a failure of third parties (including regulatory authorities) to recognize the limitations of our role as our clients’ agent or consultant, and we may be subject to claims or liability resulting from fraud committed by third parties. We may be exposed to the risk of counterparty breaches or failure to perform. We may be subject to claims, including class actions, for reimbursements, losses or damages arising from any transaction processing or operational error, or from process mismanagement. Because of the sensitive nature of the financial and healthcare transactions we process, our liability and any alleged damages may significantly exceed the fees we receive for performing the service at issue. Litigation could include class action claims based upon, among other theories, various regulatory requirements and consumer protection and privacy laws that class action plaintiffs may attempt to use to assert private rights of action. Any of these claims and related settlements or judgments could affect our operating results, damage our reputation, decrease demand for our products and services, or cause us to make costly operating changes.  
Investment decisions with respect to cash balances, market returns or losses on investments, and limits on insurance applicable to cash balances held in bank and brokerage accounts, including those held by us and as agent on behalf of our clients, could expose us to losses of such cash balances and adversely affect revenues attributable to cash balance deposit investments. 
As part of our transaction processing and other services, we maintain and manage large bank and investment accounts containing client funds, which we hold as agent, as well as operational funds. Our revenues include investment earnings related to client fund cash balances. Our choices in selecting investments, or market conditions that affect the rate of return on or the availability of investments, could have an adverse effect on the level of such revenues. The amounts held in our operational and client deposit accounts could exceed the limits of government insurance programs of organizations such as the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Securities Investors Protection Corporation, exposing us to the risk of loss. Any substantial loss would have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and our financial condition. 
Our business is subject to evolving regulations and increased scrutiny from regulators. 
Typically a state’s department of insurance regulates much of our healthcare business; however, each state’s statutes dictate such authority. Any of these regulations may limit or curtail our activities, including activities that might be profitable, and changes to existing regulations, or the interpretations thereof, may affect our ability to continue to offer our existing products and services, or to offer products and services we may wish to offer in the future. 
The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions, including the U.K. Bribery Act (“Bribery Act”), generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or other commercial advantage. The FCPA also imposes accounting standards and requirements on publicly traded U.S. corporations and their foreign affiliates which are intended to prevent the diversion of corporate funds to the payment of bribes and other improper payments, and to prevent the establishment of “off books” slush funds from which such improper payments can be made. We and our clients operate in a number of jurisdictions that may pose a risk of potential FCPA or Bribery Act violations.  
Changes in, and any violation by our clients of, applicable laws and regulations (whether related to the products and services we provide or otherwise) could diminish their business or financial condition and thus their demand for our products and services or could increase our cost of continuing to provide our products and services to such industries. Demand could also decrease if we do not continue to offer products and services that help our clients comply with regulations. For example, our accounts in the healthcare industry are impacted by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 (the “Affordable Care Act”), including the Health Insurance Marketplace. Changes to the Affordable Care Act may be enacted by Congress in response to the current administration’s stated agenda, and we cannot predict the impact that will have on our clients and their demand for our products and services. 
In addition, we cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our internal operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted. While our policies mandate compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that we will be completely effective in ensuring our compliance with all applicable anti-corruption laws. A failure to comply with these laws, rules or regulations, or allegations of such noncompliance, could adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition. 
For the three months ended March 31, 2018, the provision for income taxes includes expenses related to GILTI and non-deductible officer’s compensation, offset partially by a benefit recorded for the Foreign-Derived Intangible Income deduction. As of March 31, 2018, we do not expect to be materially impacted by the Base Erosion and Anti-Abuse Tax. We will continue to assess our income tax receivables and liabilities and deferred tax assets and liabilities as further guidance is issued regarding provisions of the  
A substantial portion of our revenues are derived, and a substantial portion of our operations are conducted, outside the U.S. 
We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. 
Because a significant portion of our business is conducted outside the U.S. and significant revenues are generated outside the U.S., we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. Fluctuations in currencies relative to currencies in which our earnings are generated also make it more difficult to perform period-to-period comparisons of our reported results of operations. Because our Consolidated Financial Statements are reported in U.S. dollars, translation of sales or earnings generated in other currencies into U.S. dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the reported amount of those sales or earnings. In addition, we incur currency transaction risk whenever we enter into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a currency other than the local currency of the transacting entity. Given the volatility of exchange rates, we cannot be assured we will be able to effectively manage our currency translation or transaction risk, and significant changes in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could adversely affect our financial statements. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for further discussion on the foreign currency translation impact on operating results and financial condition. 
We do not currently engage in hedging activities. Changes in economic or political conditions globally and in any of the countries in which we operate could result in exchange rate movements, new currency or exchange controls or other restrictions being imposed on our operations. 
From time to time we add new investment strategies to our investment product offerings by providing the initial cash investments as “seed capital.” The seed capital investments may decline in value. A significant decline in their value could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or operating results. We are a limited partner in various private equity funds and have future capital commitments related to certain private equity fund investments. These investments are illiquid. Generally, private equity fund securities are non-transferable or are subject to long holding periods, and withdrawals from the private equity firm partnerships are typically not permitted. Even when transfer restrictions do not apply, there is generally no public market for the  
securities.  Therefore, we may not be able to sell the securities at a time when we desire to do so.  We may not always be able to sell those investments at the same or higher prices than we paid for them.  We also participate in joint ventures with other companies.  These joint venture investments could require further capital contributions. 
We do not control certain businesses in which we have significant ownership.  
We invest in joint ventures and other unconsolidated affiliates as part of our business strategy, and part of our net income is derived from our pro rata share of the earnings of those businesses. Despite owning significant equity interests in those companies and having directors on their boards, we do not control their operations, strategies or financial decisions. The other owners may have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with our goals or the goals of the businesses we co-own. Our pro rata share of any losses due to unfavorable performance of those companies could negatively impact our financial results. 
Some of our joint venture investments are subject to buy-sell agreements, which could, among other things, restrict us from selling our interests even if we were to determine it would be prudent to do so.  
A change or modification in accounting policies can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective, including the impact of the adoption and implementation of the accounting standard update on revenue recognition issued in May 2014 by the FASB. Under the new standard, we recognize term license revenues upfront at time of delivery rather than ratably over the related contract period. Additionally, under the new standard, we capitalize and amortize certain direct costs, such as commissions, over the expected customer life rather than expensing them as incurred. While the adoption of the new standard does not change the cash flows received from our contracts with customers, its adoption could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. New pronouncements and varying interpretations of existing pronouncements have occurred with frequency and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules, or changes to the interpretations of existing rules, could lead to changes in our accounting practices, and such changes could materially adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. 
A material weakness in our internal controls could have a material adverse effect on us. 
Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot do so, our reputation and operating results could be harmed. A material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could adversely impact our ability to provide timely and accurate financial information. Even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. In addition, controls can be circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. Over time, controls may become inadequate because changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may occur. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. If we are unable to report financial information timely and accurately or to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures, our stock price could be negatively impacted and we could be subject to, among other things, regulatory or enforcement actions by the SEC, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 
Risks Relating to Our Indebtedness 
In addition, the agreement governing our senior credit facility contains financial and other restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests, and the additional indebtedness we incurred to fund the DST acquisition or otherwise may also contain restrictive covenants. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debts. 
To service our indebtedness, we require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. 
Following the DST acquisition and our entry into the New Credit Agreement, we currently expect to make periodic interest payments of approximately $317.8 million annually. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. 
If our business fails to generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings are not available to us, we may not be able to pay our indebtedness or fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we cannot service our indebtedness, we may have to take actions such as selling assets, seeking additional equity or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and joint ventures. We may not be able to effect such actions, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. 
Restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. 
In addition, the New Credit Agreement also requires us to maintain compliance with specified leverage ratios. Our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by events beyond our control, and these provisions could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions, meet capital needs or otherwise conduct our business activities and plans. 
Our inability to comply with any of these provisions could result in a default under one or more of the agreements governing our indebtedness.  If such a default occurs under one such agreement, the creditors under another debt agreement may elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable.  In addition, the lenders under our New Credit Agreement would have the right to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings. 
If we are unable to repay outstanding borrowings when due, the lenders under our New Credit Agreement also have the right to proceed against the collateral, including our available cash and substantially all of our domestic assets and the assets of our domestic subsidiaries, granted to them to secure the indebtedness under that facility. If the indebtedness under our New Credit Agreement were to be accelerated, we cannot assure you that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full that indebtedness and our other indebtedness. 
Risks Relating to Our Acquisition of DST Systems, Inc.  
The anticipated benefits of our acquisition of DST may not be realized or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected.  
The success of our acquisition of DST will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings derived from this transaction and our ability to integrate the two organizations and businesses. The combination of two independent businesses is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. As a result, DST and we will devote significant management attention and resources prior to closing to prepare for integrating, and we will devote significant management attention and resources post-closing to integrate the business practices and operations of both organizations. The integration process may disrupt the businesses and, if implemented ineffectively, would impair the realization of the full expected benefits.  
In addition, we continue to evaluate our estimates of synergies to be realized from the acquisition, so our actual cost-savings could differ materially from our current estimates. We cannot assure you that we will achieve the full amount of cost-savings on the schedule anticipated or at all.  
Many of these factors will be outside of our control and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management’s time and energy, which could materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, even if our operations are integrated successfully with DST, the full benefits of the transactions may not be realized, including the synergies, cost savings or sales or growth opportunities that are expected. These benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all. Further, additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of our business with DST. An inability to realize the full extent of, or any of, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, as well as any delays encountered in the integration process, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. All of these factors could cause dilution to our earnings per share, decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the transaction, and negatively impact the price of our common stock.  
We will incur costs as a result of our acquisition of DST.  
We will incur substantial expenses in connection with our acquisition of DST and over a period of time following the completion of the acquisition.  While we have assumed that a certain level of transaction expenses will be incurred, factors beyond our control could affect the total amount or the timing of these expenses.  Many of the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately.  Any increase in these estimated expenses or change in the timing of these expenses could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  
Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock 
As of May 2, 2018, William C. Stone, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owned approximately 14.2% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. We are party to a stockholders’ agreement with Mr. Stone, pursuant to which Mr. Stone has the right to nominate two members of our board of directors, one of which will be Mr. Stone for so long as he is our Chief Executive Officer. As a result, Mr. Stone has significant influence over our policy and affairs and matters requiring stockholder approval. 
Our management has broad discretion in the use of our existing cash resources and may not use such funds effectively. 
Our management has broad discretion in the application of our cash resources. Accordingly, our stockholders will have to rely upon the judgment of our management with respect to our existing cash resources, with only limited information concerning management’s specific intentions. Our management may spend our cash resources in ways that our stockholders may not desire or that may not yield a favorable return. The failure by our management to apply these funds effectively could harm our business. 
Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our Company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. 
The existence of the foregoing provisions and anti-takeover measures could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. They could also deter potential acquirers of our Company, thereby reducing the likelihood that our stockholders could receive a premium for their shares of common stock in an acquisition. 
