We adopted ASU 2016-02 as of January 1, 2019. Prior period information was not restated and continues to be presented under ASC 840, Leases. We elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance within the new standard, which among other things, allowed us to not reassess existing contracts to determine if they contain a lease and to carry forward their historical lease classification upon transition. In addition, we will not apply the guidance of ASC 842 to leases with an initial term of 12 months or less as allowed by the standard. 
Our lease portfolio primarily consists of real estate office space with lease terms ranging from 1 to 15 years. Adoption of the new standard resulted in the recording of right-of-use assets and lease payment obligations for our real estate office leases of $387.6 million and $417.8 million, respectively, as of January 1, 2019. As of June 30, 2019, $56.2 million of the lease liability was included in other accrued expenses on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. The standard did not materially impact our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (Loss) or Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. See Note 3, “Leases” for further details. 
Depreciation expense for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 was $31.1 million and $63.1 million, respectively. Depreciation expense for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 was $28.5 million and $35.3 million, respectively. 
We determine if our contractual agreements contain a lease at inception. A lease is identified when a contract allows us the right to control an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration. Our lease agreements consist primarily of operating leases for office space. 
Our operating leases are included on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as operating lease assets and operating lease liabilities. An operating lease asset represents our right to use an underlying asset over the term of a lease while an operating lease liability represents our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease. Operating lease liabilities are recognized at the commencement date at the present value of the base minimum rent payments. Operating lease assets are also recognized at the commencement date as the total operating lease liability adjusted for prepaid rents, deferred rent liabilities and lease fair value adjustments that existed under ASC 840. As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our estimated secured incremental borrowing rate within each of the significant geographic regions in which we operate based on the information available at lease commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments. 
We have certain lease agreements with our unconsolidated real estate joint ventures. We recognized operating lease expense of $0.7 million and $1.4 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, related to these lease agreements. 
Our total operating lease costs were $19.8 million and $39.7 million during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively. Cash paid for amounts included in operating lease liabilities was $18.6 million and $36.4 million during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, and is included in operating cash flows. Our weighted average remaining lease term and weighted average discount rates as of June 30, 2019 were 8.4 years and 5.0%, respectively. 
We have certain sublease agreements in place with 3rd parties to lease portions of our office space. In addition, we serve as a lessor in other lease agreements for real estate and storage facilities. Total gross sublease and other rental income recognized during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 were approximately $2.2 million and $4.7 million, respectively.  
As of June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, we held certain investment assets and certain liabilities that are required to be measured at fair value on a recurring basis. These investments include money market funds, marketable equity securities and seed capital investments where fair value is determined using quoted prices in active markets. Accordingly, the fair value measurements of these investments have been classified as Level 1 in the tables below. Investments for which we elected net asset value as a practical expedient for fair value and investments measured using the fair value measurement alternative are excluded from the tables below.  
Fair value for deferred compensation liabilities that are credited with deemed gains or losses of the underlying hypothetical investments, primarily equity securities, have been classified as Level 1 in the tables below.  
Included in Cash and cash equivalents and Funds receivable and funds held on behalf of clients on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.  
Included in Investments on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.  
Included in Other long-term liabilities on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.  
Included in Cash and cash equivalents and Funds receivable and funds held on behalf of clients on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.  
Included in Investments on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.  
Included in Other long-term liabilities on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.  
Included in Other accrued expenses on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. 
During the six months ended June 30, 2019, the fair value of our non-marketable equity securities was adjusted upward by $0.5 million.  
We have partnership interests in various private equity funds that are not included in the tables above. Our investments in private equity funds were $126.4 million at June 30, 2019, of which $119.2 million were measured using net asset value as a practical expedient for fair value and $7.2 million were accounted for under the equity method of accounting. The investments in private equity funds represent underlying investments in domestic and international markets across various industry sectors. One of our investments in private equity funds as of June 30, 2019, represented 82% of the value of the private equity fund investment portfolio. We have no management rights associated with our partnership interests in this fund and withdrawals from this fund are subject to general partner consent. This fund has a termination date in 2020 with an optional one-year extension at the discretion of the general partner. We expect to receive distributions from this fund upon liquidation of the underlying investments over the next several years, however the exact timing of the distributions is unknown. We have no unfunded commitments related to this fund. Future capital commitments related to our other private equity fund investments were approximately $1.8 million as of June 30, 2019. 
Investments in unconsolidated affiliates are accounted for under the equity method of accounting. The total investment in unconsolidated affiliates, including basis differences, is included in Investments on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. We record our proportionate share of the results of the unconsolidated affiliates and amortization expense related to basis differences in Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, net on the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. One of the unconsolidated affiliates is a party to an interest rate swap agreement. We record our proportionate share of the change in value of the interest rate swap agreement in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Amounts reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to net income are recorded in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, net on the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (Loss). 
At any time prior to March 30, 2022, we may, at our option, redeem the Senior Notes, in whole or in part, at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Senior Notes, plus an applicable “make-whole” premium, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date. At any time on or after March 30, 2022, we may redeem some or all of the Senior Notes, in whole or in part, at the redemption prices set forth in the indenture governing the Senior Notes plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date. In addition, at any time on or before March 30, 2022, we may redeem up to 40% of the aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes at a redemption price equal to 105.5% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date, with the net proceeds of one or more equity offerings.  
We evaluated the issuance of our Senior Notes and repayment of a portion of our Term B-3 Loan, in accordance with FASB Accounting Standards Codification 470-50, Debt-Modifications and Extinguishments, for modification and extinguishment accounting. We accounted for the refinancing as a debt modification with respect to amounts that remained obligations of the same lender with minor changes in cash flows and as a debt extinguishment with respect to amounts that were obligations of lenders which remained but experienced a change in cash flows of greater than 10%. As a result, we capitalized an aggregate of $6.1 million in financing costs during the six months ended June 30, 2019. Other costs incurred by us in connection with the Senior Notes, of $7.1 million, which did not meet the criteria for capitalization, are included in Loss on extinguishment of debt in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (Loss) during the six months ended June 30, 2019. 
The above fair values, which are Level 2 liabilities, were computed based on comparable quoted market prices. The fair values of cash, accounts receivable, net, short-term borrowings, and accounts payable approximate the carrying amounts due to the short-term maturities of these instruments. 
Deferred revenues primarily represent unrecognized fees billed or collected for maintenance and professional services. Deferred revenues are recognized as (or when) we perform under the contract. Deferred revenues are recorded on a net basis with contract assets at the contract level. Accordingly, as of June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, approximately $39.9 million and $32.4 million, respectively, of deferred revenue is presented net within contract assets arising from the same contracts. The amount of revenues recognized in the period that was included in the opening deferred revenues balance was $59.6 million and $146.4 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively. The amount of revenues recognized in the period that was included in the opening deferred revenues balance was $54.4 million and $131.0 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively. 
As of June 30, 2019, revenue of approximately $364.4 million is expected to be recognized from remaining performance obligations for license, maintenance and related revenues, of which $208.7 million is expected to be recognized over the next twelve months.  
The effective tax rate was 22.0% and (61.0)% for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively and 19.9% and (87.7)% for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The change in the effective tax rate for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 compared to the respective prior year periods was primarily due to the acquisition of DST during the three months ended June 30, 2018 and the relative impact of permanent book to tax differences on reduced pre-tax book income in 2018 that occurred as a result. 
Earnings per share (“EPS”) is calculated in accordance with the relevant standards. Basic EPS includes no dilution and is computed by dividing net income available to our common stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted EPS is computed by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common and common equivalent shares outstanding during the period. Common equivalent shares consist of stock options, SARs, RSUs and restricted stock awards (“RSAs”) using the treasury stock method. Common equivalent shares are excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share if the effect of including such common equivalent shares is anti-dilutive because their total assumed proceeds exceed the average fair value of common stock for the period.  
Stock options and SARs representing 4.1 and 4.4 million shares were outstanding for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, but were not included in the computation of diluted EPS because the effect of including them would be anti-dilutive. No dilutive securities have been included in the diluted EPS calculation for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 due to our reported net loss for the three and six months then ended. 
DST, the Advisory Committee of the Plan, and the Compensation Committee of DST’s Board of Directors have been named in 377 substantially similar individual demands for arbitration through July 26, 2019, by former and current DST employees demanding arbitration under the DST Employee Arbitration Program and Agreement. The underlying claim in each is the same as in the above-described Ferguson matter, with the exception that each is an individual claim and not a putative class action. As of July 26, 2019, the  
parties jointly submitted 315 of the demands for arbitration to the American Arbitration Association. The remaining demands for arbitration have not yet been submitted. 
The information regarding certain legal proceedings in which we are involved as set forth in Note 14 – Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q) is incorporated by reference into this Item 1. 
Item 1A.   
The exhibits listed in the Exhibit Index immediately preceding such exhibits are filed as part of this Report. 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 
