Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 
We do not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. We have generally invested our available cash in short-term, highly liquid financial instruments, having initial maturities of three months or less. When necessary, we have borrowed to fund acquisitions. 
Interest rate risk 
We derive service revenues from investment earnings related to cash balances maintained in bank accounts on which we are the agent for clients. The balances maintained in the bank accounts will fluctuate. For the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we had average daily cash balances of approximately $2.3 billion maintained in such accounts. We estimate that a 100 basis point change in the interest earnings rate would equal approximately $9.0 million of net income on an annual basis. The effect of changes in interest rates attributable to earnings derived from cash balances we hold for clients is offset by changes in interest rates on our variable debt.  
Equity price risk 
Foreign currency exchange rate risk 
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, approximately 27% of our revenues were from clients located outside the United States. A portion of the revenues from clients located outside the United States is denominated in foreign currencies, the majority being the British pound. While revenues and expenses of our foreign operations are primarily denominated in their respective local currencies, some subsidiaries do enter into certain transactions in currencies that are different from their local currency. These transactions consist primarily of cross-currency intercompany balances and trade receivables and payables. As a result of these transactions, we have exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates that result in foreign currency transaction gains and losses, which we report in other income (expense). These amounts were not material for the nine months ended September 30, 2019. The amount of these balances can fluctuate in the future as we bill customers and buy products or services in currencies other than our functional currency, which could increase our exposure to foreign currency exchange rates. We continue to  
