Critical Accounting Policies 
Revenue Recognition 
Acquisition Accounting 
Stock-based Compensation 
Acquisition of DST Systems, Inc. 
On April 16, 2018, the Company purchased all of the outstanding stock of DST Systems, Inc. (“DST”) for approximately $5.0 billion in cash, plus the costs, fees, expenses and debt assumed in connection with the transaction. In connection with this acquisition, the Company entered into an amended and restated senior secured credit facility pursuant to which the Company borrowed an aggregate of approximately $7.4 billion (approximately $524.5 million of which was rolled over from the Company’s existing credit facility). A portion of these proceeds was used to repay the Company’s Senior Notes and the remaining amounts outstanding under the Company’s existing credit facility. In addition, the amended and restated senior secured credit facility includes an undrawn revolving credit facility of $250.0 million. DST is a global provider of specialized technology, strategic advisory and business operations outsourcing to the financial services and healthcare industries. The net assets and results of operations of DST will be included in the Company’s consolidated financial statements from April 16, 2018. The relevant business combination disclosures will be included in the Company’s consolidated financial statements once preliminary accounting has been completed. 
Revenues 
Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 and 2017. Our revenues increased $14.2 million or 3.5%. Revenues increased primarily due to increased demand for our software-enabled services. Our acquisitions, which included CommonWealth Fund Services Ltd. (“CommonWealth”) in the fourth quarter of 2017, contributed $1.8 million in revenues and the favorable impact from foreign currency translation added $3.3 million, which resulted primarily from the strength of the U.S. dollar relative to the British Pound, the Euro and the Canadian dollar. Software-enabled services revenues increased $18.4 million or 6.6% primarily due to a continued increase in demand for our fund administration services as well as services for advisory and wealth managers. Acquisitions contributed $1.8 million and the favorable impact from foreign currency translation was $1.8 million. License, maintenance and related revenues decreased $4.1 million or 3.1% primarily due to lower demand for professional services and the impact on term licenses as a result of the implementation of ASC 606. Offsetting the overall decrease in license, maintenance and related revenues was an increase of $1.5 million due to the favorable impact from foreign currency translation. 
Cost of Revenues 
Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 and 2017. Our total cost of revenues increased $12.1 million or 5.6%. Acquisitions contributed $1.3 million to the increase and the unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation added $3.6 million, which resulted primarily from the strength of the U.S. dollar relative to the British Pound, the Euro and the Canadian dollar. Costs of software-enabled services revenues increased $13.4 million primarily due to increased personnel-related costs as well as rent and occupancy costs incurred to support the growth in software –enabled services revenues. Acquisitions added $1.3 million and the unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation added $2.8 million. Costs of license, maintenance and related revenues decreased $1.3 million primarily due to a decrease in personnel-related costs, offset by an increase of $0.8 million due to the unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation.  
Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 and 2017. Operating expenses increased $5.0 million, or 4.9% primarily due to higher professional fees associated with the acquisition of DST, legal-related expenses and higher personnel-related costs, partially offset by a decrease in rent and occupancy costs. Acquisitions added $0.3 million and the unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation added $1.7 million, which resulted primarily from the strength of the U.S. dollar relative to the British Pound, the Euro and the Canadian dollar. 
Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 for Interest, Taxes and Other 
Interest expense, net. We had net interest expense of $25.4 million in 2018 compared to $29.0 million in 2017. The decrease in interest expense for 2018 as compared to 2017 was primarily due to a lower average debt balance as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017. These facilities are discussed further in “Liquidity and Capital Resources”. 
Other income (expense), net. We had other income, net of $0.4 million and other expense, net of less than $0.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Other income (expense), net consists primarily of foreign currency transaction losses in both periods.  
Loss on extinguishment of debt. We recorded a $2.3 million loss on extinguishment of debt in the three months ended March 31, 2017 in connection with the amendment of our senior secured credit facility. The loss on early extinguishment of debt includes the write-off of a portion of the unamortized capitalized financing fees related to the senior secured credit facility for amounts accounted for as a debt extinguishment, as well as the new financing fees related to the senior secured credit facility for amounts accounted for as a debt modification.  
Our principal cash requirements are to finance the costs of our operations pending the billing and collection of client receivables, to fund payments with respect to our indebtedness, to invest in research and development, to acquire complementary businesses or assets and to pay dividends on our common stock. We expect our cash on hand, cash flows from operations, and cash available under the Amended Senior Secured Credit Agreement to provide sufficient liquidity to fund our current obligations, projected working capital requirements and capital spending for at least the next twelve months. 
In April 2018, we purchased all of the outstanding stock of DST for approximately $5.0 billion in cash, plus the costs, fees, expenses and debt assumed in connection with the transaction. We funded the acquisition and refinancing of existing debt with $7.4 billion of debt financing (of which approximately $524.5 million was rolled over from our existing credit facility) and a portion of the net proceeds from the issuance and sale of approximately $1.4 billion of our common stock. 
In 2018, we paid quarterly cash dividends of $0.07 per share of common stock on March 15, 2018 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 1, 2018, totaling $14.5 million. In 2017, we paid quarterly cash dividends of $0.0625 per share of common stock on March 15, 2017 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 1, 2017, totaling $12.7 million. 
Our cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash at March 31, 2018 were $74.6 million, an increase of $10.0 million from $64.6 million at December 31, 2017. The increase in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash is primarily due to cash provided by operations and proceeds from stock option exercises. These increases were partially offset by net repayments of debt, payment of dividends and capital expenditures. 
Net cash provided by operating activities was $69.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018. Cash provided by operating activities primarily resulted from net income of $51.3 million adjusted for non-cash items of $64.3 million, partially offset by changes in our working capital accounts (excluding the effect of acquisitions) totaling $45.7 million. The changes in our working capital accounts were driven by decreases in accrued expenses, accounts payable and deferred revenue and an increase in accounts receivable, partially offset by changes in contract assets and income taxes prepaid and payable. The decrease in accrued expenses was primarily due to the payment of annual employee bonuses in the first quarter of 2018. The decrease in accounts payable was primarily due to the timing of payments. The decrease in deferred revenue and change in contract assets was primarily due to the adoption of ASC 606. The increase in accounts receivable was primarily due to an increase in days’ sales outstanding related to receivables for annual maintenance invoices that are typically billed in the first quarter of each year. 
Investing activities used net cash of $11.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, primarily related to $7.2 million in capital expenditures and $3.9 million in capitalized software development costs as well as cash paid of $0.2 million related to purchase price adjustments for prior acquisitions. 
Financing activities used net cash of $48.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, representing net repayments of debt totaling $61.3 million, $14.5 million in quarterly dividends paid and $2.2 million in withholding taxes paid related to equity award net share settlements, partially offset by proceeds of $29.1 million from stock option exercises.  
Our cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash at March 31, 2017 were $110.9 million, a decrease of $8.8 million from $119.7 million at December 31, 2016. The decrease in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash is primarily due to net repayments of debt, payments of annual employee cash incentive, payment of dividends, capital expenditures and payment of withholding taxes related to equity award net share settlement. These decreases were partially offset by cash provided by operations and proceeds from stock option exercises. 
Net cash provided by operating activities was $57.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017. Cash provided by operating activities primarily resulted from net income of $48.1 million adjusted for non-cash items of $68.3 million, partially offset by changes in our working capital accounts (excluding the effect of acquisitions) totaling $58.6 million. The changes in our working capital accounts include a decrease in accrued expenses and increases in accounts receivable and prepaid expenses and other assets. These changes were partially offset by increases in deferred revenues and accounts payable and a change in income taxes prepaid and payable. The decrease in accrued expenses was primarily due to the payment of annual employee bonuses in the first quarter of 2017. The increase in accounts receivable was primarily due to an increase in days’ sales outstanding related to receivables within recently acquired businesses. The increase in deferred revenues was primarily due to the collection of annual maintenance fees. The increase in accounts payable was primarily due to the timing of payments. 
Investing activities used net cash of $7.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017, primarily related to $6.0 million in capital expenditures and $3.3 million in capitalized software costs partially offset by cash received of $1.8 million related to purchase price adjustments for prior acquisitions. 
Financing activities used net cash of $60.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017, representing net repayments of debt totaling $60.2 million, $12.7 million in quarterly dividends paid, $1.4 million in fees paid for debt extinguishment and $0.6 million in withholding taxes paid related to equity award net share settlements, partially offset by proceeds of $14.0 million from stock option exercises. 
We have made a permanent reinvestment determination in certain non-U.S. operations that have historically generated positive operating cash flows. At March 31, 2018, we held approximately $57.2 million in cash and cash equivalents at non-U.S. subsidiaries where we had made such a determination and in turn no provision for foreign withholding, foreign local, or U.S. state income taxes had been made. At March 31, 2018, we held approximately $51.8 million in cash that was available to our foreign borrowers under our senior secured credit facility and will be used to facilitate debt servicing of those entities. 
On March 2, 2017, we entered into an amendment (the “Amendment”) to our Credit Agreement (“Amended Senior Secured Credit Agreement”). Pursuant to the Amendment, the highest (non-default) interest rate margin applicable to Term Loan A was reduced from LIBOR plus 2.75% to LIBOR plus 1.75%, and the highest (non-default) interest rate margin applicable to Term Loan B was reduced from LIBOR plus 3.25% to LIBOR plus 2.25%. The LIBOR “floor” was also amended for the Term Loan A and the Term Loan B to be 0%. No changes were made to the financial covenants, outstanding principal amounts or the scheduled amortization. 
The Amendment was evaluated in accordance with FASB Accounting Standards Codification 470-50, Debt-Modifications and Extinguishments, for modification and extinguishment accounting. We accounted for the debt re-pricing as a debt modification with respect to amounts that remained obligations of the same lender in the syndicate with minor changes in cash flows and as a debt extinguishment with respect to amounts that were obligations of lenders that exited the syndicate or remained in the syndicate but experienced a change in cash flows of greater than 10%. See Note 3 to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of debt. 
The Company recorded a $2.3 million loss on extinguishment of debt in the three months ended March 31, 2017 in connection with the Amendment. The loss on early extinguishment of debt includes the write-off of a portion of the unamortized capitalized financing fees related to the senior secured credit facility for amounts accounted for as a debt extinguishment, as well as new financing fees related to the Amendment for amounts accounted for as a debt modification. 
Under the New Credit Agreement, we are required to make scheduled quarterly payments of 0.25% of the original principal amount of the Term Loans, with the balance due and payable on the seventh anniversary of its incurrence. No amortization is required under the Revolving Credit Facility. 
The obligations of the U.S. loan parties under the New Credit Agreement are secured by substantially all of the assets of such persons (subject to customary exceptions and limitations), including a pledge of all of the capital stock of substantially all of the U.S. wholly-owned restricted subsidiaries of such persons (with customary exceptions and limitations) and 65% of the capital stock of certain foreign restricted subsidiaries of such persons (with customary exceptions and limitations). All obligations of the non-U.S. loan parties under the New Credit Agreement are secured by substantially all of Holdings’ and the other guarantors’ assets (subject to customary exceptions and limitations), including a pledge of all of the capital stock of substantially all of Holdings’ wholly-owned restricted subsidiaries (with customary exceptions and limitations). 
The New Credit Agreement includes negative covenants that, among other things and subject to certain thresholds and exceptions, limit our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to incur debt or liens, make investments (including in the form  
of loans and acquisitions), merge, liquidate or dissolve, sell property and assets, including capital stock of our subsidiaries, pay dividends on our capital stock or redeem, repurchase or retire our capital stock, alter the business we conduct, amend, prepay, redeem or purchase subordinated debt, or engage in transactions with our affiliates.  In addition, the New Credit Agreement contains a financial covenant requiring us to maintain a consolidated net secured leverage ratio. In addition, under the New Credit Agreement, certain defaults under agreements governing other material indebtedness could result in an event of default under the New Credit Agreement, in which case the lenders could elect to accelerate payments under the New Credit Agreement and terminate any commitments they have to provide future borrowings. 
Under the Amended Senior Secured Credit Agreement, we were required to satisfy and maintain a specified financial ratio. We are required to satisfy and maintain a specified financial ratio under the New Credit Agreement as well. Our continued ability to meet this financial ratio can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will continue to meet this ratio. Any breach of these covenants could result in an event of default under the New Credit Agreement. Upon the occurrence of any event of default under the New Credit Agreement, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the New Credit Agreement to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. 
Consolidated EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure used in key financial covenants contained in the Amended Senior Secured Credit Agreement and now the New Credit Agreement, which is the material facility supporting our capital structure and providing liquidity to our business. Consolidated EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”), further adjusted to exclude unusual items and other adjustments permitted in calculating covenant compliance under the Amended Senior Secured Credit Agreement. We believe that the inclusion of supplementary adjustments to EBITDA applied in presenting Consolidated EBITDA is appropriate to provide additional information to investors to demonstrate compliance with the specified financial ratio and other financial condition tests contained in the New Credit Agreement. 
Any breach of covenants in the New Credit Agreement that are tied to ratios based on Consolidated EBITDA could result in an event of default under that agreement, in which case the lenders could elect to declare all amounts borrowed immediately due and payable and to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings. Any default and subsequent acceleration of payments under the New Credit Agreement would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Additionally, under the New Credit Agreement, our ability to engage in activities such as incurring additional indebtedness, making investments and paying dividends is also tied to ratios based on Consolidated EBITDA. 
Consolidated EBITDA does not represent net income or cash flow from operations as those terms are defined by generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, and does not necessarily indicate whether cash flows will be sufficient to fund cash needs. Further, the New Credit Agreement requires that Consolidated EBITDA be calculated for the most recent four fiscal quarters. As a result, the measure can be disproportionately affected by a particularly strong or weak quarter. Further, it may not be comparable to the measure for any subsequent four-quarter period or any complete fiscal year. 
Consolidated EBITDA does not reflect the cost of compensation we provide to our employees in the form of stock option awards; and 
The following is a reconciliation of net income to Consolidated EBITDA as defined in our New Credit Agreement. 
Acquired EBITDA reflects the EBITDA impact of significant businesses that were acquired during the period as if the acquisition occurred at the beginning of the period, as well as cost savings enacted in connection with acquisitions. 
Purchase accounting adjustments include (a) an adjustment to increase revenues by the amount that would have been recognized if deferred revenue were not adjusted to fair value at the date of acquisitions, (b) an adjustment to increase personnel and commissions expense by the amount that would have been recognized if prepaid commissions and deferred personnel costs were not adjusted to fair value at the date of the acquisitions and (c) an adjustment to increase rent expense by the amount that would have been recognized if lease obligations were not adjusted to fair value at the date of acquisitions. 
In August 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”), 2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments. ASU 2016-15 addresses how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows under Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 230, Statement of Cash flow, and other Topics. ASU 2016-15 is effective for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 and the guidance requires application using a retrospective method. The impact of our adoption of ASU 2016-15 to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements will be to reflect the presentation of debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs as cash outflows for financing activities within our  
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606). ASC 606 supersedes the revenue recognition requirements in ASC 605 and 985 and requires entities to recognize revenue when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to customers at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. We adopted ASC 606 as of January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective transition method. See Note 2 in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further details. 
Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Effective 
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842). This ASU would require lessees to recognize the following for all leases (with the exception of short-term leases) at the commencement date; (i) a lease liability, which is a lessee’s obligation to make lease payments arising from a lease, measured on a discounted basis; and (ii) a right-of-use asset, which is an asset that represents the lessee’s right to use, or control the use of, a specified asset for the lease term. Lessor accounting is largely unchanged under the amendments of this ASU. Additional disclosures will be required to allow the user to assess the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leasing activities. A modified retrospective transition approach is required for leases existing at the time of adoption. ASU 2016-02 is effective for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and earlier adoption is permitted. The impact of the adoption of ASU 2016-02 to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements will be to recognize the majority of our operating lease commitments as operating lease liabilities and right-of-use assets upon adoption, which will result in a material increase in the assets and liabilities recorded on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. We are continuing our assessment, which may identify additional impacts this ASU will have on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related disclosures and internal controls over financial reporting. 
