Three Months Ended June 30, 2019 and 2018. Our revenues increased $252.2 million, or 28.2%, primarily due to our acquisitions, which partially included DST Systems, Inc. (“DST”) and CACEIS North America (“CACEIS”) in the second quarter of 2018 and Eze Software Group, LLC (“Eze”) and Intralinks Holdings, Inc. (“Intralinks”) in the fourth quarter of 2018, which, combined, contributed $241.6 million in revenues. Excluding the impact of acquisitions, revenues increased due to increased term license revenues and increased demand for our fund administration services, with such increases partially offset by a decrease in software-enabled services revenues within the DST business. The increase in revenues was partially offset by the unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation, which reduced revenues by $9.2 million. Software-enabled services revenues increased $221.1 million, or 29.8%, primarily due to the acquisitions, which added revenues of $236.2 million, as well as from a continued increase in demand for our fund administration services and services for advisory and wealth managers. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in software-enabled services revenues within the DST business. The unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation was $7.3 million. License, maintenance and related revenues increased $31.1 million, or 20.2%, primarily due to increased term license revenues as well as the acquisitions, which added revenues of $5.4 million. The unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation was $1.8 million. 
Six Months Ended June 30, 2019 and 2018. Our revenues increased $967.5 million, or 73.4%, primarily due to our acquisitions, which partially included DST and CACEIS in the second quarter of 2018 and Eze and Intralinks in the fourth quarter of 2018, which, combined, contributed $945.0 million in revenues. Excluding the impact of acquisitions, revenues increased primarily due to an increase in term license revenues and increased demand for our fund administration services, with such increases partially offset by a decrease in software-enabled services revenues within the DST business. The increase in revenues was partially offset by the unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation, which reduced revenues by $11.8 million. Software-enabled services revenues increased $898.3 million, or 86.7%, primarily due to the acquisitions, which added revenues of $904.8 million, as well as from a continued increase in demand for our fund administration services and services for advisory and wealth managers. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in software-enabled services revenues within the DST business. The unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation was $8.6 million. License, maintenance and related revenues increased $69.2 million, or 24.6%, primarily due to increased term license revenues as well as the acquisitions, which added revenues of $40.2 million. The unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation was $3.3 million. 
Interest expense, net. We had net interest expense of $104.3 million and $205.9 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, compared to $70.2 million and $95.6 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively. The increase in interest expense, net for 2019 as compared to 2018 relates primarily to increased borrowings in connection with our acquisitions of DST, Eze and Intralinks and, to a lesser extent, higher average interest rates. These facilities are discussed further in “Liquidity and Capital Resources”. 
Other income, net. We had other income, net of $33.9 million and $37.4 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively. During the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, other income, net included investment gains of $29.5 million and $36.9 million, respectively. The remaining portion of other income, net consisted primarily of foreign currency transaction gains and losses. We had other income, net of $0.6 million and $1.1 million for the three and six months ended June, 30, 2018, respectively. During the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, other income, net consisted primarily of net investment gains and dividend income on our investments offset by foreign currency transaction losses. 
Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, net. We had equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, net of $2.2 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, compared to $1.1 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively. This is primarily related to our joint venture International Financial Data Services L.P. (“IFDS L.P.”) and represents our proportionate share of IFDS L.P.’s net income, offset by amortization of basis differences. 
Our principal cash requirements are to finance the costs of our operations pending the billing and collection of client receivables, to fund payments with respect to our indebtedness, to invest in research and development, to acquire complementary businesses or assets and to pay dividends on our common stock. We expect our cash on hand, cash flows from operations, and cash available under our Credit Agreement to provide sufficient liquidity to fund our current obligations, projected working capital requirements and capital spending for at least the next twelve months. 
Our cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash and cash equivalents, including amounts held on behalf of clients, were $1,073.8 million at June 30, 2019, a decrease of $39.5 million from $1,113.3 million at December 31, 2018.  
Client funds obligations represent our contractual obligations within the DST business to remit funds to satisfy client pharmacy claim obligations and are recorded on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet when incurred, generally after a claim has been processed by us. In addition, client funds obligations include transfer agency client balances invested overnight. Our contractual obligations to remit funds to satisfy client obligations are primarily sourced by funds held on behalf of clients. We had $1,026.7 million of client funds obligations at June 30, 2019. 
Net cash provided by operating activities was $416.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2019. Cash provided by operating activities primarily resulted from net income of $201.9 million adjusted for non-cash items of $341.2 million, partially offset by changes in our working capital accounts (excluding the effect of acquisitions) totaling $126.5 million. The changes in our working capital accounts were driven by decreases in accrued expenses, increases in contract assets, changes in income taxes prepaid and payable and decreases in deferred revenue, partially offset by decreases in prepaid expenses and other assets, decreases in accounts receivable and increases in accounts payable. The decrease in accrued expenses was primarily due to the payment of annual employee bonuses in the first quarter of 2019. The increase in contract assets was primarily due to new term license deals. The decrease in accounts receivable was primarily due to a decrease in days’ sales outstanding. The decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets and the increase in accounts payable were primarily due to the timing of payments.  
Investing activities used net cash of $26.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2019, primarily related to $32.5 million in capitalized software development costs and $27.0 million in capital expenditures, partially offset by proceeds from sales and maturities of investments of $22.5 million, the collection of other non-current receivables of $5.2 million, cash received of $3.2 million related to purchase price adjustments for prior acquisitions and $2.1 million in proceeds from unconsolidated affiliates. 
Our cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash and cash equivalents, including amounts held on behalf of clients, were $1,503.1 million at June 30, 2018, an increase of $1,438.4 million from $64.7 million at December 31, 2017. The increase in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash and cash equivalents is primarily due to proceeds received from our borrowings and common stock offering, the impact of restricted cash and cash equivalents held by DST as well cash provided by operations and proceeds from stock option exercises. These increases were partially offset by cash used for acquisitions, repayments of debt, payment of dividends and capital expenditures.  
Net cash provided by operating activities was $119.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018. Cash provided by operating activities primarily resulted from a net loss of $12.5 million adjusted for non-cash items of $215.7 million, partially offset by changes in our working capital accounts (excluding the effect of acquisitions) totaling $83.5 million. The changes in our working capital accounts were driven by decreases in accrued expenses, accounts payable and by changes in income taxes prepaid and payable, partially offset by decreases in accounts receivable, contract assets and prepaid expenses and other assets. In total, cash provided by operating activities was negatively affected by one-time payments totaling $135.0 million related to the DST acquisition. The decrease in accrued expenses was primarily due to the payment of annual employee bonuses in the first quarter of 2018. The decrease in accounts payable was primarily due to the timing of payments. The decrease in accounts receivable was primarily due to an overall decrease in days’ sales outstanding. The decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets was primarily due to the timing of payments, particularly as a result of the mid-month acquisition of DST. The decrease in contract assets was primarily due to the adoption of ASC 606. 
Investing activities used net cash of $4,648.8 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018, primarily related to cash paid for business acquisitions (net of cash acquired) of $4,622.3 million, $22.4 million in capital expenditures, $16.5 million in capitalized software development costs and $4.3 million in investments in securities, partially offset by proceeds from sales and maturities of investments of $11.7 million and proceeds from the sale of property and equipment of $4.7 million. 
We have made a permanent reinvestment determination in certain non-U.S. operations that have historically generated positive operating cash flows. At June 30, 2019, we held approximately $77.6 million in cash and cash equivalents at non-U.S. subsidiaries where we had made such a determination and in turn, no provision for foreign withholding, foreign local, or U.S. state income taxes had been made. At June 30, 2019, we held approximately $59.7 million in cash that was available to our foreign borrowers under our senior secured credit facility and will be used to facilitate debt servicing of those entities. 
The majority of the initial proceeds from the Initial Term Loans was used to fund our acquisition of DST, repay certain amounts outstanding under our then-existing credit agreement (“Prior Credit Agreement”), repay all of the outstanding principal amount of our 5.875% Senior Notes due 2023 (“Prior Senior Notes”) and repay acquired debt associated with DST.  
On October 1, 2018, in connection with our acquisition of Eze, we entered into an amendment (the “Commitment Increase Amendment”) to the Credit Agreement. Pursuant to the Commitment Increase Amendment, a new $875.0 million senior secured term B-5 facility (“Term B-5 Loan”, and together with the Initial Term Loans, the “Term Loans”) was made available to us, the proceeds of which were used to finance, in part, the Eze acquisition. 
On November 16, 2018, in connection with our acquisition of Intralinks, we entered into an amendment (the “Incremental Term Loan Amendment”) to the Credit Agreement. Pursuant to the Incremental Term Loan Amendment, an additional $1.0 billion under the Term B-5 Loan was made available to us, the proceeds of which were used to finance, in part, the Intralinks acquisition. 
The obligations of the U.S. loan parties under the Credit Agreement are secured by substantially all of the assets of such persons (subject to customary exceptions and limitations), including a pledge of all of the capital stock of substantially all of the U.S. wholly-owned restricted subsidiaries of such persons (with customary exceptions and limitations) and 65% of the capital stock of certain foreign restricted subsidiaries of such persons (with customary exceptions and limitations). All obligations of the non-U.S. loan parties under the Credit Agreement are secured by substantially all of our and the other guarantors’ assets (subject to customary exceptions and limitations), including a pledge of all of the capital stock of substantially all of our wholly-owned restricted subsidiaries (with customary exceptions and limitations). 
and acquisitions), merge, liquidate or dissolve, sell property and assets, including capital stock of our subsidiaries, pay dividends on our capital stock or redeem, repurchase or retire our capital stock, alter the business we conduct, amend, prepay, redeem or purchase subordinated debt, or engage in transactions with our affiliates.  The Credit Agreement also contains customary representations and warranties, affirmative covenants and events of default, subject to customary thresholds and exceptions.  In addition, the Credit Agreement contains a financial covenant for the benefit of the Revolving Credit Facility requiring us to maintain a minimum consolidated net secured leverage ratio. In addition, under the Credit Agreement, certain defaults under agreements governing other material indebtedness could result in an event of default under the Credit Agreement, in which case the lenders could elect to accelerate payments under the Credit Agreement and terminate any commitments they have to provide future borrowings. 
At any time prior to March 30, 2022, we may, at our option, redeem the Senior Notes, in whole or in part, at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Senior Notes, plus an applicable “make-whole” premium, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date. At any time on or after March 30, 2022, we may redeem some or all of the Senior Notes, in whole or in part, at the redemption prices set forth in the indenture governing the Senior Notes plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date. In addition, at any time on or before March 30, 2022, we may to redeem up to 40% of the aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes at a redemption price equal to 105.5% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date, with the net proceeds of one or more equity offerings. We may also, from time to time in our sole discretion, purchase, redeem, or retire our existing senior notes, through tender offers, in privately negotiated or open market transactions, or otherwise. 
As of June 30, 2019, there was $2.0 billion in principal amount of Senior Notes outstanding. 
In connection with the acquisition of DST, we assumed a mortgage with a principal amount of £21.0 million, which matures in October 2020 (“U.K. Mortgage”) and a $4.1 million mortgage on property in the U.S. The outstanding amount under the U.K. Mortgage was $22.9 million at June 30, 2019 with a fixed interest rate of 3.1%. Principal payments of £1.0 million are payable semi-annually in April and October of each year and accrued interest payable quarterly, with the outstanding balance due at maturity.  
Under the Revolving Credit Facility portion of the Credit Agreement, we are required to satisfy and maintain a specified financial ratio at the end of each fiscal quarter if the sum of (i) outstanding amount of all loans under the Revolving Credit Facility and (ii) all non-cash collateralized letters of credit issued under the Revolving Credit Facility in excess of $20 million is equal to or greater than 30% of the total commitments under the Revolving Credit Facility. Our financial ratio became effective with the period ended September 30, 2018. Our ability to meet this financial ratio can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet this ratio. Any breach of this covenant could result in an event of default under the Credit Agreement. Upon the occurrence of any event of default under the Credit Agreement, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the Credit Agreement to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. Any default and subsequent acceleration of payments under the Credit Agreement would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Additionally, under the Credit Agreement, our ability to engage in activities such as incurring additional indebtedness, making investments and paying dividends is also tied to baskets and ratios based on Consolidated EBITDA. 
Consolidated EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure used in key financial covenants contained in the Credit Agreement, which is the material facility supporting our capital structure and providing liquidity to our business. Consolidated EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”), further adjusted to exclude unusual items and  
other adjustments permitted in calculating covenant compliance under the Credit Agreement.  We believe that the inclusion of supplementary adjustments to EBITDA applied in presenting Consolidated EBITDA is appropriate to provide additional information to investors to demonstrate compliance with the specified financial ratio and other financial condition tests contained in the Credit Agreement. 
Consolidated EBITDA does not represent net income or cash flow from operations as those terms are defined by generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, and does not necessarily indicate whether cash flows will be sufficient to fund cash needs. Further, the Credit Agreement requires that Consolidated EBITDA be calculated for the most recent four fiscal quarters. As a result, the measure can be disproportionately affected by a particularly strong or weak quarter. Further, it may not be comparable to the measure for any subsequent four-quarter period or any complete fiscal year. 
Consolidated EBITDA excludes expenses and income that are permitted to be excluded per the terms of our Credit Agreement, but which others may believe are normal expenses for the operation of a business. 
The following is a reconciliation of net income to Consolidated EBITDA as defined in our Credit Agreement. 
Acquired EBITDA reflects the EBITDA impact of significant businesses that were acquired during the period as if the acquisition occurred at the beginning of the period, as well as cost savings enacted in connection with acquisitions. 
Calculated as the ratio of consolidated net secured funded indebtedness, net of cash and cash equivalents, to Consolidated EBITDA, as defined by the Credit Agreement, for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters ended on the measurement date. Consolidated net secured funded indebtedness is comprised of indebtedness for borrowed money, letters of credit, deferred purchase price obligations and capital lease obligations, all of which is secured by liens on our property. 
We adopted ASU 2016-02 as of January 1, 2019. Prior period information was not restated and continues to be presented under ASC 840, Leases. We elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance within the new standard, which among other things, allowed us to not reassess existing contracts to determine if they contain a lease and to carry forward their historical lease classification upon transition. In addition, we will not apply the guidance of ASC 842 to leases with an initial term of 12 months or less as allowed by the standard. 
Our lease portfolio primarily consists of real estate office space with lease terms ranging from 1 to 15 years. Adoption of the new standard resulted in the recording of right-of-use assets and lease payment obligations for our real estate office leases of $387.6 million and $417.8 million, respectively, as of January 1, 2019. As of June 30, 2019, $56.2 million of the lease liability was included in other accrued expenses on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. The standard did not materially impact our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (Loss) or Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. See Note 3, “Leases” for further details. 
