Financial Statements 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 
Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements  
In August 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments. ASU 2016-15 addresses how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows under ASC Topic 230, Statement of Cash Flow, and other Topics. ASU 2016-15 is effective for the Company for its first quarter of fiscal 2018 and the guidance requires application using a retrospective method. The impact of the Company’s adoption of ASU 2016-15 to the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements was to reflect the presentation of debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs as cash outflows from financing activities within the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. The Company adopted ASU 2016-15 as of January 1, 2018, which resulted in the Company presenting fees paid for debt extinguishment as a financing activity within the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for all periods shown. 
In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01, Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities. ASU 2016-01 requires equity investments, except those accounted for under the equity method of accounting, that have readily determinable fair values to be measured at fair value with any changes in fair value recognized in net income. Equity securities that do not have readily determinable fair values may be measured at estimated fair value or cost less impairment, if any, adjusted for subsequent observable price changes, with changes in the carrying value recognized in net income. A qualitative assessment for impairment is required for equity investments without readily determinable fair values. The updated guidance also eliminates the requirement to disclose the method and significant assumptions used to estimate the fair value of financial instruments measured at amortized cost on the balance sheet. The Company adopted ASU 2016-01, which did not have a material impact on the Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606). ASC 606 supersedes the revenue recognition requirements in ASC 605 and 985 and requires entities to recognize revenue when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to customers at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The Company adopted ASC 606 as of January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective transition method. See Note 3 for further details. 
Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Effective 
Principles of Consolidation 
The Company is the lessee in a series of operating leases covering a large portion of the Company’s Kansas City, Missouri-based leased office facilities. The lessors are generally joint ventures (in which the Company has 50% ownership) that have been established specifically to purchase, finance and engage in leasing activities with the joint venture partners and unrelated third parties. The Company’s analysis of its real estate joint ventures for all periods presented indicate that none qualified as a VIE and, accordingly, they have not been consolidated.  
Funds receivable and funds held on behalf of clients 
receivables represent amounts due to the Company for pharmacy claims paid in advance of receiving client funding and for pharmacy claims processed for which client funding requests have not been made. 
Funds held on behalf of clients in the form of cash, cash equivalents and certificates of deposit with a maturity of less than twelve months are included in Funds receivable and funds held on behalf of clients in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. Funds held on behalf of clients in the form of certificates of deposit with a maturity of greater than twelve months are classified as Investments in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. All funds held on behalf of clients represent assets that are restricted for use. 
Client funds obligations 
Client funds obligations represent the Company’s contractual obligations to remit funds to satisfy client pharmacy claim obligations and are recorded on the balance sheet when incurred, generally after a claim has been processed by the Company. In addition, client funds obligations include transfer agency client balances invested overnight.  
Investments  
The Company measures equity investments in marketable securities, seed capital investments and other investments, other than those accounted for under the equity method of accounting or those that result in consolidation of the investee, at fair value, with changes in the fair value recognized in earnings. The Company uses net asset value as a practical expedient for the fair value of partnership interests in private equity funds that are not accounted for under the equity method of accounting.  
Investments in non-marketable equity securities that do not have readily determinable fair values and do not qualify for the practical expedient to measure the investment using a net asset value per share are recorded using the measurement alternative in ASU 2016-01, Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities. These investments are recorded at cost, less impairment, adjusted for observable price changes in orderly transactions for an identical or similar investment of the same issuer. At each reporting period, the Company assesses if these investments continue to qualify for this measurement alternative. Impairment is recorded when there is evidence that the expected fair value of the investment has declined to below the recorded cost.  
The Company has certain investments in unconsolidated affiliates accounted for under the equity method of accounting in which the Company’s carrying value exceeds the proportionate share of net assets of the unconsolidated affiliate. The total investment in unconsolidated affiliates, including basis differences, is included in Investments on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. The Company records its proportionate share of the results of the unconsolidated affiliates and amortization expense related to basis differences in Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, net on the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive (Loss) Income. 
Derivative and hedging activities 
Transaction expenses 
Transaction expenses are those costs which are directly related to the Company’s acquisition of DST Systems, Inc. (“DST”), as described in Note 11, “Acquisitions.” Transaction expenses consist primarily of certain costs associated with the amendment and restatement of the Company’s Credit Agreement, as described in Note 4, “Debt”, investment banker advisory fees, legal fees, and third-party valuation and other fees. 
Adoption of ASC Topic 606, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” 
On January 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASC 606 using the modified retrospective method for those contracts which were not completed as of the date of adoption. Results for reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2018 are presented under ASC 606, while prior period amounts continue to be reported in accordance with ASC 605 and 985. The most significant impact of the standard to the Company relates to the timing of revenue recognition for arrangements involving term licenses. Under ASC 606, the Company is required to recognize term license revenues upon the transfer of the license and recognize the associated maintenance revenues over the contract period, as opposed to the Company’s prior practice of recognizing both the term license and maintenance revenues ratably over the contract period. In addition, the Company is required to capitalize and amortize incremental costs of obtaining a contract, such as certain sales commission costs, over the expected customer relationship period if the Company expects to recover those costs. The Company previously expensed these costs over the length of the initial contract excluding any renewals.  
The Company recorded an increase to retained earnings of $65.8 million, or $47.9 million net of tax, as of January 1, 2018 due to the cumulative impact of adopting ASC 606, with the impact primarily related to the Company’s term license revenues. The impact to revenues for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 related to these adjustments was a decrease of $9.6 million and $21.4 million, respectively. 
The adoption of ASC 606 had no impact on the Company’s total cash flows from operations. 
Revenue Recognition 
Software-enabled Services Revenue 
The Company primarily offers software-enabled outsourcing services in which the Company utilizes its own software to offer comprehensive fund administration services for alternative investment managers, including fund manager services, transfer agency services, funds-of-funds services, tax processing and accounting. The Company also uses its own software applications to provide healthcare organizations a variety of medical and pharmacy benefit solutions to satisfy their information processing, quality of care, cost management concerns and payment integrity programs, while achieving compliance and improving operational efficiencies. The Company’s healthcare solutions include claims adjudication, benefit management, care management, business intelligence and other ancillary services. The Company also offers subscription-based on-demand software applications that are managed and hosted at the Company’s facilities. The software-enabled services arrangements provide an alternative for clients who do not wish to install, run and maintain complicated financial software. Under these arrangements, the client does not have the right to take possession of the software, rather, the Company agrees to provide access to its applications, remote use of its equipment to process transactions, access to client’s data stored on its equipment, and connectivity between its environment and the client’s computing systems.  
Software-enabled services are generally provided under contracts with initial terms of one to five years that require monthly or quarterly payments, and are subject to automatic annual renewal at the end of the initial term unless terminated by either party. 
In software-enabled services arrangements, the arrangement is a single performance obligation or a stand-ready performance obligation, which in either case is comprised of a series of distinct services that are substantially the same and have the same pattern of transfer to the customer (i.e. distinct days or months of service). The Company applies a measure of progress (typically time-based) to any fixed consideration and allocates variable consideration to the distinct periods of service based on usage or summarization of account information. These variable payments relate specifically to the Company’s efforts to perform the services in the period in which the fee applies. This variability is solely attributed to and resolved as a result of the transfer of these services; these fees are independent of the transfer of past or future goods or services. These fees meet the allocation objective of ASC 606 because they represent the amount of consideration the Company is entitled to for these services. Revenue is generally recognized over the period the services are provided, which results in revenue recognition that corresponds with the value to the client of the services transferred to date relative to the remaining services promised. 
License, Maintenance and Related Revenue Agreements 
The Company generates revenues in the form of software license fees and related maintenance and services fees. License fees include perpetual license fees and term license fees which differ mainly in the duration over which the customer benefits from the software. Maintenance and services primarily consist of fees for maintenance services (including support and unspecified upgrades and enhancements when and if they are available) and to a lesser extent professional services which focus on both deployment and training the Company’s customers to fully leverage the use of its products although the user can benefit from the software without the Company’s assistance.  
Under ASC 606, the Company identifies a contract with a customer, identifies the performance obligations in the contract, determines the transaction price, allocates the transaction price to each performance obligation in the contract and recognizes revenues when (or as) the Company satisfies a performance obligation. 
Software license performance obligations are functional intellectual property that are distinct as the user can benefit from the software on its own as defined under ASC 606. Software license revenues are recognized at the point of time when the software license has been delivered. Term license fees are typically due in annual installments at the beginning of each annual period and the Company records a contract asset for amounts recognized as revenue in excess of amounts billed. 
The Company recognizes revenues from maintenance ratably over the term of the underlying maintenance contract term because the Company transfers control evenly by providing a stand-ready service. The term of the maintenance contract is usually one year. Renewals of maintenance contracts create new performance obligations that are satisfied over the term with the revenues recognized ratably over the term. 
In contracts with multiple performance obligations, the Company accounts for individual performance obligations separately if they are distinct.  The Company allocates the transaction price to each performance obligation based on its relative standalone selling price out of total consideration of the contract.  Standalone selling price is determined utilizing observable prices to the extent available. If the standalone selling price for a performance obligation is not directly observable, the Company estimates it maximizing the use of observable inputs. For maintenance and support, the Company determines the standalone selling price based on the price at which the Company separately sells a renewal contract and the economic relationship between licenses and maintenance.  The Company primarily determines the standalone selling price for sales of licenses using the residual approach.  For professional services, the Company determines the standalone selling prices based on the price at which the Company separately sells those services. 
The Company occasionally enters into license agreements requiring significant customization of the Company’s software which are not material to the Company’s results of operations. The Company accounts for the license and professional service fees under these agreements as a single performance obligation, recognized over time using an input method during the development of the license. This method requires estimates to be made for costs to complete the agreement utilizing an estimate of development man-hours remaining. Revenue is recognized each period based on the hours incurred to date compared to the total hours expected to complete the project. Due to uncertainties inherent in the estimation process, it is at least reasonably possible that completion costs may be revised. Such revisions are recognized in the period in which the revisions are determined. Provisions for estimated losses on uncompleted contracts are determined on a contract-by-contract basis, and are made in the period in which such losses are first estimated or determined. 
Accounts Receivable, net is primarily comprised of billed and unbilled receivables for which the Company has an unconditional right to consideration, net of an allowance for doubtful accounts. 
Deferred revenues represent mostly unrecognized fees billed or collected for maintenance and professional services. Deferred revenues are recognized as (or when) the Company performs under the contract. Deferred revenues are recorded on a net basis with contract assets at the contract level. Accordingly, as of June 30, 2018, approximately $30.6 million of deferred revenue is presented net within contract assets arising from the same contracts. The amount of revenues recognized in the period that was included in the opening deferred revenues balance was $54.4 million and $131.0 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively. 
Revenue Disaggregation 
As noted above, prior period amounts have not been adjusted under the modified retrospective method. 
As noted above, prior period amounts have not been adjusted under the modified retrospective method. 
The Company applies a practical expedient to expense sales commissions as incurred when the amortization period would have been one year or less.  
For the Company’s software-enabled services contracts which are cancelable with 90 days’ notice or meet the allocation objective for series performance obligations under ASC 606, the Company uses the practical expedient applicable to such contracts and has not disclosed the transaction price for the remaining performance obligations as of the end of each reporting period or when the Company expects to recognize this revenue. 
The majority of the initial proceeds from the Term Loans was used to satisfy the consideration required to fund the acquisition of DST, repay certain amounts outstanding under the Company’s then-existing credit agreement (“Prior Credit Agreement”), repay all of the outstanding principal amount of the Company’s 5.875% Senior Notes due 2023 (“Senior Notes”) and to repay acquired debt associated with DST.  
The refinancing of the Prior Credit Agreement was evaluated in accordance with FASB Accounting Standards Codification 470-50, Debt-Modifications and Extinguishments, for modification and extinguishment accounting. The Company accounted for the refinancing as a debt modification with respect to amounts that remained obligations of the same lender in the syndicate with minor changes in cash flows and as a debt extinguishment with respect to amounts that were obligations of lenders that exited the syndicate or remained in the syndicate but experienced a change in cash flows of greater than 10%. See Loss on extinguishment of debt section below. 
The obligations of the U.S. loan parties under the Credit Agreement are secured by substantially all of the assets of such persons (subject to customary exceptions and limitations), including a pledge of all of the capital stock of substantially all of the U.S. wholly-owned restricted subsidiaries of such persons (with customary exceptions and limitations) and 65% of the capital stock of certain foreign restricted subsidiaries of such persons (with customary exceptions and limitations). All obligations of the non-U.S. loan parties under the Credit Agreement are secured by substantially all of the Company’s and the other guarantors’ assets (subject to customary exceptions and limitations), including a pledge of all of the capital stock of substantially all of the Company’s wholly-owned restricted subsidiaries (with customary exceptions and limitations). 
dividends on its capital stock or redeem, repurchase or retire its capital stock, alter the business the Company conducts, amend, prepay, redeem or purchase subordinated debt, or engage in transactions with its affiliates. The Credit Agreement also contains customary representations and warranties, affirmative covenants and events of default, subject to customary thresholds and exceptions. In addition, the Credit Agreement contains a financial covenant for the benefit of the Revolving Credit Facility requiring the Company to maintain a minimum consolidated net secured leverage ratio.  In addition, under the Credit Agreement, certain defaults under agreements governing other material indebtedness could result in an event of default under the Credit Agreement, in which case the lenders could elect to accelerate payments under the Credit Agreement and terminate any commitments they have to provide future borrowings.  
On April 16, 2018, the Company redeemed all of the outstanding principal amount of its Senior Notes utilizing a portion of the proceeds from the Term Loans described above. The redemption of the Senior Notes required the payment of a “make whole” premium calculated pursuant to the indenture governing the Senior Notes. See Loss on extinguishment of debt section below. In addition, on May 1, 2018, the Company redeemed senior notes of DST which were acquired as a part of the acquisition of DST utilizing a portion of the proceeds from the Term Loans described above. The redemption of DST’s senior notes totaled $600.4 million, which included a “make whole” premium. 
Other indebtedness 
In connection with the acquisition of DST, the Company assumed a mortgage with a principal amount of £21.0 million, which matures in October 2020 (“U.K. Mortgage”) and a $4.1 million mortgage on property in the U.S. The outstanding amount under the U.K. Mortgage was $26.4 million at June 30, 2018 with a fixed interest rate of 3.1%. Principal payments of £1.0 million are payable semi-annually in April and October of each year and accrued interest payable quarterly, with the outstanding balance due at maturity.  
Debt issuance costs 
In connection with the Credit Agreement, the Company capitalized an aggregate of $37.5 million in financing costs during the three months ended June 30, 2018. Other costs incurred by the Company in connection with the Credit Agreement, which did not meet the criteria for capitalization, are included in Transaction expenses in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive (Loss) Income. 
Loss on extinguishment of debt 
The Company recorded a $44.4 million loss on extinguishment of debt in connection with the entry into the Credit Agreement and redemption of the Senior Notes. The loss on early extinguishment of debt includes the write-off of a portion of the unamortized capitalized financing fees and the unamortized original issue discount related to the Prior Credit Agreement for amounts accounted for as a debt extinguishment, a make-whole premium paid in connection with the redemption of the Senior Notes and the write-off of all unamortized capitalized financing fees and unamortized original issue discount related to the Senior Notes. 
The above fair values, which are Level 2 liabilities, were computed based on comparable quoted market prices. The fair values of cash, accounts receivable, net, short-term borrowings, and accounts payable approximate the carrying amounts due to the short-term maturities of these instruments. 
Investments in unconsolidated affiliates are accounted for under the equity method of accounting. As of June 30, 2018, investments in unconsolidated affiliates were $262.5 million, which includes fair value adjustments that exceed the Company’s proportionate share of the unconsolidated affiliates’ net assets by $169.0 million. The total investment in unconsolidated affiliates, including basis differences, is included in Investments on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. The Company records its proportionate share of the results of the unconsolidated affiliates and amortization expense related to basis differences in Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, net on the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive (Loss) Income. 
International Financial Data Services L.P. (“IFDS L.P.”) is a 50% owned joint venture with State Street Corporation with operations in Canada, Ireland and Luxembourg. The difference between the amount at which the investment in IFDS L.P. is carried and the amount of underlying equity in net assets is approximately $50.0 million at June 30, 2018. The difference will be amortized as a component of equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates over 15 years.  
Pershing Road Development Company, LLC (“PRDC LLC”) is a 50% owned special-purpose entity formed to develop and lease office space to the U.S. government. The difference between the amount at which the investment in PRDC LLC is carried and the amount of underlying equity in net assets is $79.1 million at June 30, 2018. The difference will be amortized as a component of equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates over approximately 28 years.  
Broadway Square Partners, LLP (“Broadway Square Partners”) is a 50% owned real estate joint venture. The difference between the amount at which the investment in Broadway Square Partners is carried and the amount of underlying equity in net assets is $39.6 million at June 30, 2018. The difference will be amortized as a component of equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates over approximately 40 years.  
Fair Value Measurement 
As of June 30, 2018, the Company held certain investment assets and certain liabilities that are required to be measured at fair value on a recurring basis. These investments include money market funds, marketable equity securities and seed capital investments where fair value is determined using quoted prices in active markets. Accordingly, the fair value measurements of these investments have been classified as Level 1 in the tables below. Investments for which the Company elected net asset value as a practical expedient for fair value and investments measured using the fair value measurement alternative are excluded from the table below. Fair value for deferred compensation liabilities that are credited with deemed gains or losses of the underlying hypothetical investments, primarily equity securities, have been classified as Level 1 in the tables below. The Company has foreign currency derivative instruments that are required to be reported at fair value. Fair value for the derivative instruments was determined using inputs from quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets that are directly or indirectly observable. Accordingly, the derivative instruments have been classified as Level 2 in the tables below.  
Included in Investments on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.  
Included in Other accrued expenses on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.  
The Company has not become aware of any information indicative of fair value impairments or adjustments to the carrying value of its non-marketable equity securities as of June 30, 2018. 
The Company has partnership interests in various private equity funds that are not included in the table above. The Company’s investments in private equity funds were $119.6 million at June 30, 2018, of which $112.0 million were measured using net asset value as a practical expedient for fair value and $7.6 million were accounted for under the equity method of accounting. The investments in private equity funds represent underlying investments in domestic and international markets across various industry sectors. One of the Company’s investments in private equity funds as of June 30, 2018, representing 77% of the value of the private equity fund investments, was concentrated in one fund which is primarily invested in the energy sector. The Company has no management rights associated with its partnership interests in this fund and withdrawals from this fund are subject to general partner consent. This fund has a termination date in 2019 with an optional two year extension at the discretion of the general partner. The Company expects to receive distributions from this fund upon liquidation of the underlying investments over the next several years. The Company has no unfunded commitments related to this fund. Future capital commitments related to the Company’s other private equity fund investments were approximately $2.0 million as of June 30, 2018. 
Generally, the Company’s investments in private equity funds are non-transferable or are subject to long holding periods, and withdrawals from the private equity firm partnerships are typically not permitted. Even when transfer restrictions do not apply, there is generally no public market for the securities. Therefore, the Company may not be able to sell the securities at a time when it desires to do so. The Company may not always be able to sell those investments at the same or higher prices than it paid for them. As of June 30, 2018, the Company did not have plans to sell any of these investments. The maximum risk of loss related to the Company’s  
Note 7—Hedging Transactions and Derivatives Instruments 
The Company currently uses certain derivatives as economic hedges of foreign currency exposure. Although these derivatives are not designated for hedge accounting, they are effective economic hedges. The changes in fair values of economic hedges are immediately recognized into earnings. 
Note 8—Earnings per Share 
Earnings per share (“EPS”) is calculated in accordance with the relevant standards. Basic EPS includes no dilution and is computed by dividing net income available to the Company’s common stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted EPS is computed by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common and common equivalent shares outstanding during the period. Common equivalent shares consist of stock options, stock appreciation rights (“SARs”), restricted stock units (“RSUs”) and restricted stock awards (“RSAs”) using the treasury stock method. Common equivalent shares are excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share if the effect of including such common equivalent shares is anti-dilutive because their total assumed proceeds exceed the average fair value of common stock for the period.  
Dividends. In 2018, the Company paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.07 per share of common stock on March 15, 2018 and June 15, 2018 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 1, 2018 and June 1, 2018, respectively, totaling $31.4 million in the aggregate. In 2017, the Company paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.0625 per share of common stock on March 15, 2017 and June 15, 2017 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 1, 2017 and June 1, 2017, respectively, totaling $25.5 million in the aggregate. 
Note 9—Equity and Stock Compensation 
Public offering. In April 2018, the Company completed a public offering of its common stock. The offering included 30,262,250 newly issued shares of common stock sold by the Company (including 3,947,250 shares of common stock sold pursuant to the underwriters’ option to purchase additional shares) at an offering price to the public of $47.50 per share for which the Company received total net proceeds of approximately $1.4 billion.  
DST Systems Inc. 
The net assets and results of operations of DST have been included in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements from April 16, 2018. The fair value of the intangible assets, consisting of customer relationships, completed technologies, trade names and a non-compete agreement, was determined using the income approach. Specifically, the relief from-royalty method was utilized for the completed technology and trade name, the excess earnings method was utilized for the customer relationships and the lost profits method was utilized for the non-compete agreement. The intangible assets are amortized each year based on the ratio that the projected cash flows for the intangible assets bear to the total of current and expected future cash flows for the intangible assets. The completed technology is amortized over approximately twelve years, customer relationships are amortized over approximately fourteen years, the trade name is amortized over approximately twelve years and the non-compete agreement is amortized over approximately two years, in each case the estimated lives of the assets. The fair value of the fixed assets was determined using a combination of income, market and cost approaches, dependent on the type of fixed asset which was valued. The fair value of investments was determined based on the nature of the underlying investment. The fair value of investments in marketable equity securities and seed capital investments were determined using quoted prices in active markets for identical assets. The fair value of investment in partnerships interests in private equity funds was primarily determined using the net asset value of the fund. The fair value of investments in non-marketable equity securities was determined on recent observable transactions of similar equity securities of the investee. The fair value of the investments in unconsolidated affiliates was determined using a combination of income and market approach. The remainder of the purchase price was allocated to goodwill and is not tax deductible. 
The net assets and results of operations of CACEIS have been included in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements from June 1, 2018. The fair value of the intangible assets, consisting of customer relationships, was determined using the income approach. Specifically, the excess earnings method was utilized for the customer relationships. The intangible assets are amortized each year based on the ratio that the projected cash flows for the intangible assets bear to the total of current and expected future cash flows for the intangible assets. The customer relationships are amortized over approximately sixteen years, which is the estimated life of the asset. The remainder of the purchase price was allocated to goodwill and is not tax deductible. 
The fair value of acquired accounts receivable balances for CACEIS and DST approximates the contractual amounts due from acquired customers, except for approximately $6.1 million of contractual amounts that are not expected to be collected as of the acquisition date and that were also reserved by CACEIS and DST. 
The Company reported revenues of $0.8 million and $471.9 million from CACEIS and DST, respectively, from their respective acquisition dates through June 30, 2018. 
Pending acquisition 
On July 31, 2018, the Company announced that it had entered into a definitive agreement wherein the Company will acquire Eze Software (“Eze”) from TPG Capital.  Under the terms of the agreement, the Company will purchase Eze in an all-cash transaction of $1.45 billion.  The transaction is expected to close by the fourth quarter of 2018 and is subject to clearances by the relevant regulatory authorities and other customary closing conditions. The Company plans to fund the acquisition with a combination of cash on hand and term loan debt. Eze provides investment management solutions designed to optimize operational and investment alpha running throughout the entire investment process. 
The information regarding certain legal proceedings in which we are involved as set forth in Note 12 – Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q) is incorporated by reference into this Item 1. 
Item 1A.   
Exhibits 
The exhibits listed in the Exhibit Index immediately preceding such exhibits are filed as part of this Report. 
submitted electronically herewith 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 
