fls.txt
The statements contained in this Report that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21B of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including statements regarding our expectations, beliefs, intentions and strategies for the future.


item1.txt
Daktronics, Inc. and subsidiaries (the “Company”, “Daktronics”, “we”, “our”, or “us”) is the world's industry leader in designing and manufacturing electronic scoreboards, programmable display systems and large screen video displays for sporting, commercial and transportation applications.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been condensed or omitted.
The results of operations for the interim periods presented are not necessarily indicative of results that may be expected for any other interim period or for the full fiscal year.
In August 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230) Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments, which reduces the diversity in practice in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows.
In November 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-18, Restricted Cash, which requires that the statements of cash flows explain the change during the period in the total of cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash.
Accordingly, restricted cash will be included with cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts presented on the statements of cash flows.
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-04, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other (Topic 350), which simplifies the subsequent measurement of goodwill by removing the second step of the two-step impairment test.
The amendment requires an entity to perform its annual or interim goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount.
A goodwill impairment will be the amount by which a reporting unit’s carrying value exceeds its fair value, not to exceed the carrying amount of goodwill.
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740) Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other than Inventory, which is intended to improve the accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
Current GAAP prohibits the recognition of current and deferred income taxes for an intra-entity asset transfer until the asset has been sold to an outside party, which is an exception to the principle of comprehensive recognition of current and deferred income taxes in GAAP.
This update eliminates the exception by requiring entities to recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory when the transfer occurs.


item2.txt
This discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report.
Our net sales and profitability historically have fluctuated due to the impact of large project orders, such as display systems for professional sports facilities, colleges and universities, and spectacular projects in the commercial area, as well as the seasonality of the sports market.
Large project orders can include several displays, controllers, and subcontracted structure builds, each of which can occur on varied schedules per the customer's needs.
Net sales and gross profit percentages also have fluctuated due to other seasonal factors, including the impact of holidays, which primarily affects our third fiscal quarter.
Large product orders involving competitive bidding and substantial subcontract work for product installation generally have lower gross margins.
As a result, certain orders for which we have received binding letters of intent or contracts will not be booked until all required contractual documents and deposits are received.
Backlog is not a measure defined by GAAP, and our methodology for determining backlog may vary from the methodology used by other companies in determining their backlog amounts.
For a summary of recently issued accounting pronouncements and the effects of those pronouncements on our financial results, refer to "Note 1.
Our mission is to be the world leader at informing and entertaining audiences through dynamic audio-visual communication systems.
These qualities are important for our long-term success because our products have finite lifetimes, and we strive to win replacement business from existing customers.
Increases in user adoption, the acceptance of a variety of digital solutions, and the decline of digital solution pricing over the years has increased the size of the global market.
With this positive demand, strong competition exists across all of our business units, which causes margin constraints.


item3.txt
Through January 27, 2018, most of our net sales were denominated in U.S. dollars, and our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate changes on net sales had not been significant.
For the nine months ended January 27, 2018, net sales originating outside the United States were 16.1 percent of total net sales, of which a portion was denominated in Canadian dollars, Euros, Chinese renminbi, British pounds, Australian dollars, Brazilian reais or other currencies.


