fls.txt
The statements contained in this Report that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21B of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including statements regarding our expectations, beliefs, intentions and strategies for the future.


item1.txt
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP") requires management to make estimates and assumptions affecting the reported amounts therein.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been condensed or omitted.
These financial statements should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and notes thereto for the year ended April 28, 2018, which are contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").
Certain prior year amounts in the condensed consolidated balance sheet have been reclassified to conform to the current year's presentation due to the adoption of Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).
These reclassifications had no effect on reported net income, comprehensive income, cash flows, total assets or total liabilities.
In each 53-week year, an additional week is added to the first quarter, and each of the last three quarters is comprised of a 13-week period.
In October 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU 2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740) Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other than Inventory, which is intended to improve the accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
Current GAAP prohibits the recognition of current and deferred income taxes for an intra-entity asset transfer until the asset has been sold to an outside party, which is an exception to the principle of comprehensive recognition of current and deferred income taxes in GAAP.
ASU 2014-09 and related guidance supersedes revenue recognition requirements under FASB Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 605 and related industry specific revenue recognition guidance.
This new standard defines a comprehensive revenue recognition model, requiring a company to recognize revenue from the transfer of goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that the entity expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services.
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-04, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other (Topic 350), which simplifies the subsequent measurement of goodwill by removing the second step of the two-step impairment test.
A goodwill impairment will be the amount by which a reporting unit’s carrying value exceeds its fair value, not to exceed the carrying amount of goodwill.
We are currently evaluating the effect that adopting ASU 2017-04 will have on our condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
We are currently evaluating the effect that adopting ASU 2016-13 will have on our condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.


item2.txt
This discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report.
The four domestic business units consist of Commercial, Live Events, High School Park and Recreation, and Transportation, all of which include the geographic territories of the United States and Canada.
Uniquely configured orders can include several displays, controllers, and subcontracted structure builds, each of which can occur on varied schedules per the customer's needs.
Our third fiscal quarter tends to be a slower quarter because it includes two holidays and generally less outdoor construction work occurs.
Uniquely configured orders involving competitive bidding and substantial subcontract work for product installation generally have lower gross margins.
Our remaining performance obligations ("backlog") consist of contractually binding sales agreements or purchase orders for integrated electronic display systems and related products and excludes extended service agreements and service only orders.
As a result, certain orders for which we have received binding letters of intent or contracts will not be included in backlog until all required contractual documents and deposits are received.
Our mission is to be the world leader at informing and entertaining audiences through dynamic audio-visual communication systems.
Our success is contingent on the depth and quality of our products, including related control systems, the depth of our service offerings and our technology serving these market demands.
These qualities are important for our long-term success because our products have finite lifetimes, and we strive to win replacement business from existing customers.
Increases in user adoption, the acceptance of a variety of digital solutions, and the decline of digital solution pricing over the years has increased the size of the global market.


item3.txt
We derive net sales in U.S. dollars and other currencies including Canadian dollars, Euros, Chinese renminbi, British pounds, Australian dollars, Brazilian reais or other currencies.
If we believe currency risk in any foreign location or specific sales or purchase transaction is significant, we utilize foreign exchange hedging contracts to manage our exposure to the currency fluctuations.


