fls.txt
All forward-looking statements included in this report are made as of the date hereof and are based on information available to us as of such date.


item1.txt
1. Business Description, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies The performance and simplicity of our advanced, comprehensive solutions offer unprecedented levels of functionality, reliability and scalability.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of ClearOne and its subsidiaries.
These accompanying interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared by the Company pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and are not audited.
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring accruals, necessary for a fair presentation of our financial position as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, and the cash flows for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017.
These interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 filed with the SEC.
The significant accounting policies were described in Note 1 to the audited consolidated financial statements included in the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Accordingly, each quarter-end deferral of revenue and associated cost of goods sold were calculated and recorded based upon the actual channel inventory reported at quarter-end.
Further, with respect to distributors and other channel partners not reporting the channel inventory, the revenue and associated cost of goods sold were deferred until we received payment for the product sales made to such distributors or channel partners.
During the quarter ended March 31, 2018, revenue decreased by $852 due to the impact of the adoption of the New Revenue Standard.
In the absence of a sales agreement, the Company’s standard terms and conditions at the time of acceptance of purchase orders apply.
The Company considers the customer purchase orders, governed by sales agreements or the Company’s standard terms and conditions, to be the contract with the customer.
In determining the transaction price, the Company evaluates whether the price is subject to refund or adjustment to determine the net consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled.
The Company recognizes revenue from sales agreements upon transferring control of a product to the customer.


item2.txt
This report on Form 10-Q includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
We derive most of our revenue from professional audio conferencing products by promoting our products in the professional audio-visual channel.
Overall revenue declined in the three months ended March 31, 2018 when compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, with declines seen in all product categories.
We operate in a very dynamic and highly competitive industry which is dominated on the one hand by a few players with respect to certain products like traditional video conferencing appliances while on the other influenced heavily by a fragmented reseller market consisting of numerous regional and local players.
The industry is also characterized by the influx of venture capitalist funded start-ups and private companies keen to win market share even at the expense of mounting financial losses.
The adoption of Beamforming Microphone Array 2, along with our Converge Pro 2, our new platform for professional audio conferencing, remains challenged in large part because of our competitors’ product offering that directly infringes our strategic patents.
Our revenues in the near term may also be adversely affected by the resignation of a large US distributor in June 2018.
Our strength in professional audio visual space is largely due to our industry leading conferencing technologies and the full suite of professional microphone products, especially Beamforming Microphone Arrays.
Despite our strong leadership position in the professional audio communications products market, we face challenges to revenue growth due to the limited size of the market and pricing pressures from new competitors attracted to the commercial market.
Revenue from our video products in the overall revenue mix has been improving on the back of a strong growth for our video products in 2016 that had continued in 2017.
We expect our strategy of combining Spontania, our cloud-based video conferencing product, Collaborate, our appliance based media collaboration product and our high-end audio conferencing technology to provide growth in revenue in the near future.
Most of our revenue from outside the U.S. is billed in US Dollars and is not exposed to any significant currency risk.


item4.txt
An evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Exchange Act) as of March 31, 2018 was performed under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and our Principal Financial and Accounting Officer.
The material weakness will be fully remediated when, in the opinion of management, the control processes have been operating for a sufficient period of time to provide reasonable assurance as to their effectiveness.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Item 1A.


