item1.txt
In third quarter 2018, we determined that the Pension Benefit Obligation (PBO) for our UK funded pension plan at December 31, 2017 was overstated by approximately GBP 40 million (approximately USD $53 or $43 after-tax). The error was the result of the plan administrator under reporting benefit payments. The correction of the PBO was recorded as an out-of-period adjustment in the third quarter 2018 with the offset to the balance sheet recorded as a credit to Changes in defined benefit plans, net in Other comprehensive income for the period. We assessed the impact of this error and concluded that it was not material to the financial statements previously issued for any interim or annual period and the correction of the error in the third quarter 2018 is not expected to be material to the annual financial statements for 2018.
On January 1, 2018, we adopted ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC Topic 606), which superseded nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP. The core principle of ASC Topic 606 is to recognize revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services. ASC Topic 606 defines a five-step process to recognize revenue and requires more judgment and estimates within the revenue recognition process than required under previous U.S. GAAP, including identifying performance obligations in the contract, estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation. 
Another change identified upon adoption was with respect to deferred contract costs, which include incremental costs of obtaining a contract and costs to fulfill a contract. Deferred contract costs had been minimal under our prior practices as most costs to obtain a contract and fulfill a contract were expensed as incurred. However, as a result of the contract cost guidance included in ASC Topic 606 and ASC Topic 340-40 "Contracts with Customers", upon adoption, we recorded a transition asset of $153, and a net of tax increase of $117 to Retained earnings, related to the incremental cost to obtain contracts. Substantially all of this adjustment is related to the deferral of sales commissions paid to sales people and agents in connection with the placement of equipment with post sale service arrangements.
Our services contracts may also include the sale or lease of equipment and software. In these instances, we follow the policies noted for Equipment or Software Revenues and separately report the revenue associated with these performance obligations. Certain document management services arrangements may also include an embedded lease of equipment. In these instances, the revenues associated with the lease are recognized in accordance with the requirements for lease accounting. 
Revenues under bundled arrangements are allocated considering the relative standalone selling prices of the lease and non-lease deliverables included in the bundled arrangement. Lease deliverables include the equipment, financing, maintenance and other executory costs, while non-lease deliverables generally consist of the supplies and non-maintenance services. The allocation for the lease deliverables begins by allocating revenues to the maintenance and other executory costs plus a profit thereon. These elements are generally recognized over the term of the lease as service revenue. The remaining amounts are allocated to the equipment and financing elements, which are subjected to the accounting estimates noted below under “Leases”.
We consider the economic life of most of our products to be five years, since this represents the most frequent contractual lease term for our principal products and only a small percentage of our leases are for original terms longer than five years. There is no significant after-market for our used equipment. We believe five years is representative of the period during which the equipment is expected to be economically usable, with normal service, for the purpose for which it is intended. Residual values are not significant.
With respect to fair value, we perform an analysis of equipment fair value based on cash selling prices during the applicable period. The cash selling prices are compared to the range of values determined for our leases. The range of cash selling prices must be reasonably consistent with the lease selling prices in order for us to determine that such lease prices are indicative of fair value.
The accounting for lessors does not fundamentally change with this update except for changes to conform and align guidance to the lessee guidance as well as to the new revenue recognition guidance in ASU 2014-09. Some of these conforming changes such as those related to the definition of minimum lease payments, may potentially result in certain lease arrangements, which are currently accounted for as operating leases, being classified and accounted for as sales-type leases with a corresponding up-front recognition of equipment sales revenue. 
This update is effective for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2019 and certain practical expedients can be elected upon adoption. On the Lessee side, a cross-functional implementation team has been established which is evaluating the lease portfolio, system, process and policy change requirements. The Company has made progress in gathering the necessary data elements for the lease population and a system provider has been selected, with system configuration and implementation underway. The company is currently evaluating the impact of the new guidance on its consolidated financial results and expects it will have a material impact on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position primarily related to the recognition of previously off-book operating leases. The Company is currently planning to elect the package of practical expedients to not reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs and is evaluating the other practical expedients available under the guidance. On the Lessor side, the Company continues to assess the potential impacts of the guidance on its lease agreements with customers, including potential changes in contracting terms, and we also expect to elect the package of practical expedients. 
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-15, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other - Internal Use Software (Subtopic 350-40), Customer's Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That is a Service Contract. This update aligns the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software (and hosting arrangements that include an internal-use software license). The update provides criteria for determining which implementation costs to capitalize as an asset related to the service contract and which costs to expense. The capitalized implementation costs are required to be expensed over the term of the hosting arrangement. The update also clarifies the presentation requirements for reporting such costs in the entity’s financial statements. This update is effective for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2020 and early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of ASU 2018-15 on our consolidated financial statements.


item2.txt
To better understand the trends in our business, we believe that it is helpful to analyze the impact of changes in the translation of foreign currencies into U.S. Dollars on revenue and expenses. We refer to this analysis as "constant currency", “currency impact” or “the impact from currency.” This impact is calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period's currency translation rate. This impact is calculated for all countries where the functional currency is the local country currency. We do not hedge the translation effect of revenues or expenses denominated in currencies where the local currency is the functional currency. Management believes the constant currency measure provides investors an additional perspective on revenue trends. Currency impact can be determined as the difference between actual growth rates and constant currency growth rates. The constant currency impact for signings growth is calculated on the basis of plan currency rates.
Refer to Note 19 - Contingencies and Litigation and Note 20 - Fuji Xerox Transaction and Recent Developments in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to this terminated transaction and related matters.
In 2018, in connection with the completion of the audits of Fuji Xerox’s fiscal year-end financial statements as of and for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2017, as well as the review of Fuji Xerox’s unaudited interim financial statements as of and for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, additional adjustments and misstatements were identified. These additional adjustments and misstatements were to the previously reported Net income of Fuji Xerox for the period from 2010 through 2017 and are incremental to the items identified by the IIC noted above. These incremental adjustments primarily relate to Fuji Xerox’s Asia Pacific subsidiaries and involve improper revenue recognition, including revenue associated with leasing transactions, additional provisions for bad debt allowances and other asset impairments. In certain instances, some of the adjustments related to inappropriate accounting and reporting practices in the Fuji Xerox Asia Pacific subsidiaries and are further evidence of inadequate management oversight and an insufficient entity level monitoring system for financial statements of subsidiaries beyond what was previously identified by the IIC. Fuji Xerox is committed to implementing additional measures to remediate these newly identified issues. 
•Services, maintenance and rentals revenue includes rental and maintenance revenue (including bundled supplies) as well as the post sale component of the document services revenue from our Managed Document Services (MDS) offerings, and revenues from our Communication and Marketing Solutions (CMS). 
•High-end - For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, the decrease primarily reflected lower revenues from iGen in the U.S. along with lower revenues from black-and-white systems consistent with market decline trends. These declines were only partially mitigated by demand for the recently launched Iridesse production press. For the three months ended September 30, 2018, the decrease was also attributed to lower installs of the Versant systems (partially as a result of lapping the prior year launch).
•21% increase in black-and-white multifunction devices, driven largely by higher activity from low-end devices in developing markets as well as higher sales of our ConnectKey devices through indirect channels in the U.S. and Europe. 
•17% decrease in high-end color installs, as demand for our new Iridesse production press was offset by lower installs of iGen and lower-end production systems. 
•5% increase in color multifunction devices, reflecting higher activity for our ConnectKey products in our Global Imaging business and our developing markets.
•20% increase in black-and-white multifunction devices, driven largely by higher activity from low-end devices in developing markets as well as higher sales of our ConnectKey devices through U.S. and Europe's indirect channels. 
•18% increase in mid-range color installs, reflecting higher demand from our ConnectKey devices across large enterprise and indirect channels, as well as higher sales of lower-end A3 devices in developing markets.
•7% decrease in high-end color systems, as demand for our new Iridesse production press and cut-sheet inkjet products was offset by lower installs of iGen and lower-end production systems. 
•“Mid-Range”, which includes A3 Office and Light Production devices that generally serve workgroup environments in mid to large enterprises. Prices in this product group can range from approximately $2,000 to $75,000+.
•“High-End”, which includes production printing and publishing systems that generally serve the graphic communications marketplace and large enterprises. Prices for these systems can range from approximately $30,000 to $1,000,000+.


item4.txt
12 Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.
32 Certification of CEO and CFO pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
101.CAL XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase.


part2.txt
In July 2018, Registrant’s Board of Directors authorized a $1.0 billion share repurchase program. This program replaces the $245 million of authority remaining under Registrant’s previously authorized share repurchase program.
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1(A) to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the Quarter Ended June 30, 2018. See SEC File Number 001-04471.
12 Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.
32 Certification of CEO and CFO pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.


