item1.txt
The Reorganization is intended to be implemented via a tax-free transaction for U.S. federal income tax purposes that will result in each holder of Xerox Corporation’s common stock owning the same number of shares of common stock in the new holding company and each holder of Xerox Corporation’s preferred stock owning the same number of shares of preferred stock in the new holding company. It is expected that the directors and executive officers of Xerox Corporation will also serve in the same capacities for the new holding company and that shares of the new holding company’s common stock will trade on the New York Stock Exchange under Xerox Corporation’s current ticker symbol “XRX.”
The Reorganization is subject to the approval of shareholders, who will be asked to vote on the Reorganization at the annual shareholders meeting scheduled to be held on May 21, 2019, as well as regulatory approval and other customary conditions and is expected to be implemented in mid-2019, though there can be no assurance as to its completion or timing. Upon the completion of the Reorganization, it is anticipated that the new holding company will become a guarantor of Xerox Corporation's existing Credit Facility.
In March 2019, as part of Project Own It, we entered into a shared services arrangement with HCL Technologies (HCL) pursuant to which we are outsourcing certain global administrative and support functions, including, among others, selected information technology and finance functions (excluding accounting). The transition of these functions to HCL is expected to take up to 18 months. HCL is expected to make certain up-front and ongoing investments in software, tools and other technology to consolidate, optimize and automate the transferred functions with the goal of providing improved service levels and significant cost savings. The shared services arrangement with HCL includes a total aggregate spending commitment by us of approximately $1.3 billion over the next 7 years. However, we can terminate the arrangement at any time at our discretion, subject to payment of termination fees that decline over the term or for cause. The spending commitment excludes restructuring and related costs we are expected to incur in connection with the transition of the contemplated functions - refer to Note 11 - Restructuring Programs for additional information. The shared services arrangement with HCL is subject to compliance with European works council and employment regulatory requirements. 
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-15, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other - Internal Use Software (Subtopic 350-40), Customer's Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That is a Service Contract. This update aligns the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software (and hosting arrangements that include an internal-use software license). The update provides criteria for determining which implementation costs to capitalize as an asset related to the service contract and which costs to expense. The capitalized implementation costs are required to be expensed over the term of the hosting arrangement. The update also clarifies the presentation requirements for reporting such costs in the entity’s financial statements. This update is effective for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2020. We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of ASU 2018-15 on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Upon adoption we applied the transition option, whereby prior comparative periods are not retrospectively presented in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. We also elected the package of practical expedients not to reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs and the lessee practical expedient to combine lease and non-lease components for certain asset classes (real estate lease arrangements for offices and warehouses). Additionally, we made a policy election to not recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases for all asset classes. We elected the package of practical expedients from both the Lessee and Lessor prospective, to the extent applicable. 
Operating lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at the commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term. Since the implicit rate for most of our leases is not readily determinable, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at the commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments. The incremental borrowing rate is the rate of interest that we would have to pay to borrow, on a collateralized basis, an amount equal to the lease payments, in a similar economic environment and over a similar term. The rate is dependent on several factors, including the lease term and currency of the lease payments.
Lease terms used to calculate the present value of lease payments generally do not include any options to extend, renew, or terminate the lease, as we do not have reasonable certainty at lease inception that these options will be exercised. We generally consider the economic life of our operating lease ROU assets to be comparable to the useful life of similar owned assets. We have elected the short-term lease exception, therefore operating lease ROU assets and liabilities do not include leases with a lease term of twelve months or less. Our leases generally do not provide a residual guarantee. The operating lease ROU asset also excludes lease incentives. 
We review the impairment of our ROU assets consistent with the approach applied for our other long-lived assets. We review the recoverability of our long-lived assets when events or changes in circumstances occur that indicate that the carrying value of the asset may not be recoverable. The assessment of possible impairment is based on our ability to recover the carrying value of the asset from the expected undiscounted future pre-tax cash flows of the related operations. We have elected to include the carrying amount of operating lease liabilities in any tested asset group and include the associated operating lease payments in the undiscounted future pre-tax cash flows.
The remainder of any fixed payments, as well as the variable payments, are allocated to non-lease elements because the variable consideration for incremental page volume or usage is considered attributable to the delivery of those elements. The consideration for the non-lease elements is not dependent on the consideration for equipment and vice versa and the consideration for the equipment and services is priced at the appropriate standalone values; therefore, the relative standalone selling price allocation method is not necessary. The revenue associated with the non-lease elements are normally accounted for as a single performance obligation being delivered in a series with delivery being measured as the usage billed to the customer. Accordingly, revenue from these agreements is recognized in a manner consistent with the guidance for Maintenance and Services agreements. 
We consider the economic life of most of our products to be five years, since this represents the most frequent contractual lease term for our principal products and only a small percentage of our leases are for original terms longer than five years. There is no significant after-market for our used equipment. We believe five years is representative of the period during which the equipment is expected to be economically usable, with normal service, for the purpose for which it is intended.
We perform an analysis of the stand-alone selling price of equipment based on cash selling prices during the applicable period. The cash selling prices are compared to the range of values determined for our leases. The range of cash selling prices must be reasonably consistent with the lease selling prices in order for us to determine that such lease prices reflects stand-alone value. 


item2.txt
To understand the trends in our business, we believe that it is helpful to analyze the impact of changes in the translation of foreign currencies into U.S. Dollars on revenue and expenses. We refer to this analysis as "constant currency", “currency impact” or “the impact from currency.” This impact is calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period's currency translation rate. This impact is calculated for all countries where the functional currency is the local country currency. We do not hedge the translation effect of revenues or expenses denominated in currencies where the local currency is the functional currency. Management believes the constant currency measure provides investors an additional perspective on revenue trends. Currency impact can be determined as the difference between actual growth rates and constant currency growth rates.
•High-end - For the three months ended March 31, 2019, revenue was nearly flat, as compared to first quarter 2018, and was driven by lower sales from our Americas sales organization, mostly offset by growth from our European region. The decline in installs was partially offset by a favorable revenue mix driven by strong demand for the higher-configuration models of our Iridesse production press. 
While the rate of our first quarter 2019 revenue decline was greater than the rate we expect for the year as a whole (largely due to the impact of organizational changes implemented in the first quarter 2019), we expect such decline to improve each quarter sequentially on a year-over-year basis, resulting in an overall revenue decline of about 5% for the year as a whole, excluding an approximate 1.0-percentage point unfavorable impact from currency.
Installs reflect new placement of devices only. Revenue associated with equipment installations (discussed below) may be reflected up-front in Equipment sales or over time either through rental income or as part of our Xerox Services revenues (which are both reported within our post sale revenues), depending on the terms and conditions of our agreements with customers. Installs include activity from Xerox Services and Xerox-branded products shipped to our XBS sales unit. Detail by product group (see Geographic Sales Channels and Product and Offerings Definitions) is shown below.
•2% decrease in black-and-white multifunction devices, driven by lower activity from our EMEA organization, including low-end devices in developing market regions, partially offset by higher installs of ConnectKey devices through our indirect channels in the U.S.
•14% decrease in high-end color installs, reflecting lower installs of our iGen and lower-end production systems including Versant systems, partially offset by strong demand for the higher-configuration models of our Iridesse production press and higher installs of our inkjet production systems.
•“Mid-Range”, which includes A3 Office and Light Production devices that generally serve workgroup environments in mid to large enterprises. Prices in this product group can range from approximately $2,000 to $75,000+.
•“High-End”, which includes production printing and publishing systems that generally serve the graphic communications marketplace and large enterprises. Prices for these systems can range from approximately $30,000 to $1,000,000+.
SAG as a percentage of revenue of 24.8% decreased 1.0-percentage point as compared to first quarter 2018, primarily reflecting the benefit from productivity and restructuring associated with our Project Own It transformation actions. 


item4.txt
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(d)(5) to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018. See SEC File Number 001-04471.
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e)(42) to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018. See SEC File Number 001-04471.
10.3 Form of Omnibus Award Agreement under PIP; ELTIP; Stock Options.
10.4 Amended Letter of Agreement dated April 17, 2019 between Registrant and Giovanni (John) Visentin.
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated April 17, 2019. See SEC File Number 001-04471.


