item1.txt
Fuji Xerox is a joint venture between Xerox Corporation and Fujifilm Holdings Corporation (“Fujifilm”) in which Xerox holds a noncontrolling 25% equity interest and Fujifilm holds the remaining equity interest. In 2017 Fujifilm publicly announced it had formed an independent investigation committee ("IIC") to conduct a review of the appropriateness of the accounting practices at Fuji Xerox’s New Zealand subsidiary related to the recovery of receivables associated with certain bundled leasing transactions that occurred in, or prior to, Fuji Xerox’s fiscal year ending March 31, 2016. 
On January 1, 2018 we adopted ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC Topic 606), which superseded nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP. The core principle of ASC Topic 606 is to recognize revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services. ASC Topic 606 defines a five step process to recognize revenue and requires more judgment and estimates within the revenue recognition process than required under previous U.S. GAAP, including identifying performance obligations in the contract, estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation. 
Another change identified upon adoption was with respect to deferred contract costs, which include incremental costs of obtaining a contract and costs to fulfill a contract. Deferred contract costs had been minimal under our prior practices as most costs to obtain a contract and fulfill a contract were expensed as incurred. However, as a result of the contract cost guidance included in ASC Topic 606 and ASC Topic 340-40 "Contracts with Customers", upon adoption, we recorded a transition asset of $153, and a net of tax increase of $117 to retained earnings, related to the incremental cost to obtain contracts. Substantially all of this adjustment is related to the deferral of sales commissions paid to sales people and agents in connection with the placement of equipment with post sale service arrangements.
location, revenue is normally recognized when the equipment has been delivered and installed at the customer location. Sales of customer installable products are recognized upon shipment or receipt by the customer according to the customer's shipping terms. Revenue from the equipment performance obligation also includes certain analyst training services performed in connection with the installation or delivery of the equipment.
Our services contracts may also include the sale or lease of equipment and software. In these instances we follow the policies noted for Equipment or Software Revenues and separately report the revenue associated with these performance obligations. Certain document management services arrangements may also include an embedded lease of equipment. In these instances the revenues associated with the lease are recognized in accordance with the requirements for lease accounting. 
Revenues under bundled arrangements are allocated considering the relative standalone selling prices of the lease and non-lease deliverables included in the bundled arrangement. Lease deliverables include the equipment, financing, maintenance and other executory costs, while non-lease deliverables generally consist of the supplies and non-maintenance services. The allocation for the lease deliverables begins by allocating revenues to the maintenance and other executory costs plus a profit thereon. These elements are generally recognized over the term of the lease as 
We consider the economic life of most of our products to be five years, since this represents the most frequent contractual lease term for our principal products and only a small percentage of our leases are for original terms longer than five years. There is no significant after-market for our used equipment. We believe five years is representative of the period during which the equipment is expected to be economically usable, with normal service, for the purpose for which it is intended. Residual values are not significant.
With respect to fair value, we perform an analysis of equipment fair value based on cash selling prices during the applicable period. The cash selling prices are compared to the range of values determined for our leases. The range of cash selling prices must be reasonably consistent with the lease selling prices in order for us to determine that such lease prices are indicative of fair value.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases. This update requires the recognition of leased assets and lease obligations by lessees for those leases currently classified as operating leases under existing lease guidance. Short term leases with a term of 12 months or less are not required to be recognized. The update also requires disclosure of key information about leasing arrangements to increase transparency and comparability among organizations. The accounting for lessors does not fundamentally change except for changes to conform and align guidance to the lessee guidance as well as to the new revenue recognition guidance in ASU 2014-09. This update is effective for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2019. We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of ASU 2016-02 on our consolidated financial statements. The aggregate undiscounted value of our operating lease commitments at December 31, 2017 was approximately $450 and was primarily related to leases of facilities. 


item2.txt
To better understand the trends in our business, we believe that it is helpful to analyze the impact of changes in the translation of foreign currencies into U.S. Dollars on revenue and expenses. We refer to this analysis as "constant currency", “currency impact” or “the impact from currency.” This impact is calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period's currency translation rate. This impact is calculated for all countries where the functional currency is the local country currency. We do not hedge the translation effect of revenues or expenses denominated in currencies where the local currency is the functional currency. Management believes the constant currency measure provides investors an additional perspective on revenue trends. Currency impact can be determined as the difference between actual growth rates and constant currency growth rates. The constant currency impact for signings growth is calculated on the basis of plan currency rates.
Refer to Note 19 - Contingencies and Litigation and Note 20 - Fuji Xerox Transaction and Recent Developments in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to this transaction and related matters.
In 2018, in connection with the completion of the audits of Fuji Xerox’s fiscal year-end financial statements as of and for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2017, as well as the review of Fuji Xerox’s unaudited interim financial statements as of and for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, additional adjustments and misstatements were identified. These additional adjustments and misstatements were to the previously reported net income of Fuji Xerox for the period from 2010 through 2017 and are incremental to the items identified by the IIC noted above. These incremental adjustments primarily relate to Fuji Xerox’s Asia Pacific subsidiaries and involve improper revenue recognition, including revenue associated with leasing transactions, additional provisions for bad debt allowances and other asset impairments. In certain instances, some of the adjustments related to inappropriate accounting and reporting practices in the Fuji Xerox Asia Pacific subsidiaries and are further evidence of inadequate management oversight and an insufficient entity level monitoring system for financial statements of subsidiaries beyond what was previously identified by the IIC. Fuji Xerox is committed to implementing additional measures to remediate these newly identified issues. 
Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was $23 million and included after-tax costs of $155 million related to the amortization of intangible assets, restructuring and related costs, transaction and related costs, non-service retirement-related costs and other discrete adjustments, resulting in adjusted1 net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox of $178 million. Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the three months ended March 31, 2017 was $46 million and included after-tax costs of $130 million related to the amortization of intangible assets, restructuring and related costs, non-service retirement-related costs and other discrete adjustments, resulting in adjusted1 net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox of $176 million. The decrease in net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the prior year period was primarily due to lower equity income from our unconsolidated affiliates, which included our share of a significant restructuring charge recorded by Fuji Xerox, transaction and related costs and higher income taxes. These impacts were partially offset by lower restructuring and related costs and non-service retirement-related costs. The increase in adjusted1 net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the prior year period was primarily related to increased operating profits reflecting the continued benefits of cost savings and productivity improvements, which offset the decline in revenues, as well as lower interest expense and a gain on the sale of non-core assets. These impacts were partially offset by lower equity income from unconsolidated affiliates and higher income taxes.
Cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was $2 million and included capital expenditures (including internal use software) of $18 million which were partially offset by proceeds of $16 million from the sale of non-core business assets. Cash used in financing activities of $117 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 primarily reflects payments of $25 million related to the termination of a capital lease obligation and $13 million of bridge facility costs, as well as dividend payments of $67 million.
•18% increase in black-and-white multifunction devices, driven largely by higher activity for low-end devices in developing markets. 
•11% increase in mid-range black-and-white, as demand for recently launched products more than offset market trends.
First quarter 2018 signings decreased 0.6% from first quarter 2017, with a 1.4-percentage point favorable impact from currency, reflecting lower contribution from new business. On a trailing twelve month (TTM) basis, signings increased 1.1% from the comparable prior year period, with a 0.5-percentage point unfavorable impact from currency. 
New business TCV decreased 5.2% from first quarter 2017, with a 1.4-percentage point favorable impact from currency, and decreased 12.2% at constant currency1 on a TTM basis, led by lower signings in Europe. 
•International, which includes our sales channels in Europe, Eurasia, Latin America, Middle East, Africa and India. 
•“High-End”, which includes production printing and publishing systems that generally serve the graphic communications marketplace and large enterprises. Prices for these systems can range from approximately $30,000 to $1,000,000+.
First quarter 2018 pre-tax income margin of 5.5% increased 6.2-percentage points as compared to first quarter 2017. The increase was primarily driven by lower restructuring and related costs that reflected the phasing of our strategic transformation initiatives, as well as lower Other expense, net partially offset by Transaction related costs.


item4.txt
31(a) Certification of CEO pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or Rule 15d-14(a).
32 Certification of CEO and CFO pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
101.CAL XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase.
101.LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase.


part2.txt
During the quarter ended March 31, 2018, Registrant issued the following securities in transactions that were not registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Act”).
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(b) to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2016. See SEC File Number 001-04471.
31(a) Certification of CEO pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or Rule 15d-14(a).
31(b) Certification of CFO pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or Rule 15d-14(a).


