item1.txt
References to “Xerox Holdings” refer to Xerox Holdings Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries while references to “Xerox” refer to Xerox Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. References herein to “we,” “us,” “our,” the “Company” refer collectively to both Xerox Holdings and Xerox unless the context suggests otherwise.
Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements reflect the activity for both Xerox Holdings and Xerox for all periods presented, unless otherwise noted.
On March 6, 2019, the Xerox Board of Directors approved a reorganization (the “Reorganization”) of the Company's corporate structure into a holding company structure. The Reorganization was subject to the approval of shareholders, which was obtained at the annual shareholders meeting held May 21, 2019.
On July 31, 2019, Xerox completed the Reorganization, pursuant to which Xerox became a direct, wholly-owned subsidiary of Xerox Holdings. The business operations, directors and executive officers of the Company did not change as a result of the Reorganization.
The Reorganization was accounted for as a transaction among entities under common control and is expected to be a tax-free transaction for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Shares of Xerox Holdings common stock trade on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “XRX”, formerly used by Xerox. 
Subsequent to the Reorganization, Xerox Holdings contributed the Xerox Series B Preferred Stock it held to Xerox in exchange for additional capital and Xerox subsequently extinguished the Series B Preferred Stock. The contribution and extinguishment were recorded at carrying value. In addition, the capital structure of Xerox was modified such that 
In March 2019, as part of Project Own It, we entered into a shared services arrangement with HCL Technologies (HCL) pursuant to which we are outsourcing certain global administrative and support functions, including, among others, selected information technology and finance functions (excluding accounting). The transition of these functions to HCL is expected to take up to 18 months. HCL is expected to make certain up-front and ongoing investments in software, tools and other technology to consolidate, optimize and automate the transferred functions with the goal of providing improved service levels and significant cost savings. The shared services arrangement with HCL includes a total aggregate spending commitment by us of approximately $1.3 billion over the next 7 years. However, we can terminate the arrangement at any time at our discretion, subject to payment of termination fees that decline over the term or for cause. The spending commitment excludes restructuring and related costs we are expected to incur in connection with the transition of the contemplated functions - refer to Note 12 - Restructuring Programs for additional information. The transfer of employees associated with the HCL arrangement in certain countries is subject to compliance with works council and other employment regulatory requirements in those countries, which may delay the transfer as well as the expected savings from the arrangement. 
Xerox Holdings and Xerox consider the applicability and impact of all Accounting Standards Updates (ASUs) issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB). The ASUs listed below apply to both registrants. ASUs not listed below were assessed and determined to be not applicable to the Consolidated Financial Statements of either registrant. 
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-15, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other - Internal Use Software (Subtopic 350-40), Customer's Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That is a Service Contract. This update aligns the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software (and hosting arrangements that include an internal-use software license). The update provides criteria for determining which implementation costs to capitalize as an asset related to the service contract and which costs to expense. The capitalized implementation costs are required to be expensed over the term of the hosting arrangement. The update also clarifies the presentation requirements for reporting such costs in the entity’s financial statements. This update is effective for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2020. We continue to evaluate the impact of the adoption of ASU 2018-15 on our Consolidated Financial Statements. Since we currently capitalize these implementation costs, we do not currently expect the new guidance to have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
Upon adoption, we applied the transition option, whereby prior comparative periods are not retrospectively presented in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. We also elected the package of practical expedients not to reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs and the lessee practical expedient to combine lease and non-lease components for certain asset classes (real estate lease arrangements for offices and warehouses). Additionally, we made a policy election to not recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases for all asset classes. We elected the package of practical expedients from both the Lessee and Lessor prospective, to the extent applicable. 


item2.txt
To understand the trends in our business, we believe that it is helpful to analyze the impact of changes in the translation of foreign currencies into U.S. Dollars on revenue and expenses. We refer to this analysis as "constant currency", “currency impact” or “the impact from currency.” This impact is calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period's currency translation rate. This impact is calculated for all countries where the functional currency is the local country currency. We do not hedge the translation effect of revenues or expenses denominated in currencies where the local currency is the functional currency. Management believes the constant currency measure provides investors an additional perspective on revenue trends. Currency impact can be determined as the difference between actual growth rates and constant currency growth rates.
Third quarter 2019 Net income attributable to Xerox Holdings increased $132 million as compared to third quarter 2018 primarily due to lower non-service retirement-related costs and Income tax expense as well as higher Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates. In addition, lower revenues were more than offset by the continued benefits of cost savings and productivity improvements from our Project Own It transformation actions. Third quarter 2019 Adjusted1 net income attributable to Xerox Holdings increased $26 million as compared to third quarter 2018. The increase reflected increased operating profits as a result of the continued benefits from cost savings and productivity improvements from Project Own It, which more than offset the pace of revenue decline, as well as higher Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates.
Net income attributable to Xerox Holdings for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 increased $311 million as compared to the prior year period primarily due to higher Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates as well as lower Income tax expense and non-service retirement-related costs. The increase also reflected the continued benefits of cost savings and productivity improvements from our Project Own It transformation actions, which more than offset the impact of lower revenues. These benefits were partially offset by higher Restructuring and related costs. Adjusted1 net income attributable to Xerox Holdings for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 increased $87 million as compared to the prior year period. The increase was primarily related to higher Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates as well as increased operating profits reflecting the continued benefits of cost savings and productivity improvements from Project Own It, which more than offset the decline in revenues.
During second quarter 2019, we entered into an arrangement to expand our existing sourcing relationship with HP Inc. (HP). As part of the new arrangement, we will start sourcing certain A4 and entry-level A3 products from HP to diversify our supply chain. Many of these devices will operate with our ConnectKey software, a key differentiator in the marketplace.
In addition, we will provide toner for both our printers included in this agreement and certain HP printers, which will allow us to add volume to our emulsion aggregation (EA) toner plant in Webster, NY. Further, as part of our growth strategy to increase our penetration of the small-to-medium size business (SMB) market, Xerox will also become a Device as a Service (DaaS) partner for HP in the US. We will be able to sell HP PCs, displays and accessories, with or without DaaS, to our US SMB clients. Lastly, HP will also make DocuShare Flex, Xerox's cloud-based content management platform, available on commercial PCs distributed in the U.S., giving a major lift to our software growth strategy.
Refer to Note 23 - Subsequent Event in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding these agreements as well as in our Current Report on form 8-K filed with the SEC on November 5, 2019.
Installs reflect new placement of devices only. Revenue associated with equipment installations may be reflected up-front in Equipment sales or over time either through rental income or as part of our Xerox Services revenues (which are both reported within our post sale revenues), depending on the terms and conditions of our agreements with customers. Installs include activity from Xerox Services and Xerox-branded products shipped to our XBS sales unit. Detail by product group (see Geographic Sales Channels and Product and Offerings Definitions) is shown below.


item4.txt
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Xerox Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019. See SEC File Number 001-04471.
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to Xerox Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019. See SEC File Number 001-04471.
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019. See SEC File Number 001-39013.
3.4 Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation filed with the Department of State of New York on July 31, 2019.
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019. See SEC File Number 001-39013.
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.3 to Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019. See SEC File Number 001-39013.


part2.txt
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Xerox Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019. See SEC File Number 001-04471.
3.1 Xerox Corporation's Restated Certificate of Incorporation filed with the Department of State of New York on July 31, 2019.
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to Xerox Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019. See SEC File Number 001-04471.
3.3 Certificate of Amendment of Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Certificate of Incorporation dated July 31, 2019. 
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019. See SEC File Number 001-39013.
3.4 Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation filed with the Department of State of New York on July 31, 2019.


