item1.txt
On March 6, 2019, the Xerox Board of Directors approved a reorganization (the “Reorganization”) of the Company's corporate structure into a holding company structure. The Reorganization was subject to the approval of shareholders, which was obtained at the annual shareholders meeting held May 21, 2019.
On July 31, 2019, Xerox completed the Reorganization, pursuant to which Xerox became a direct, wholly-owned subsidiary of Xerox Holdings Corporation ("Xerox Holdings"). The business operations, directors and executive officers of the Company did not change as a result of the Reorganization.
The Reorganization was accounted for as a transaction among entities under common control and is expected to be a tax-free transaction for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Shares of Xerox Holdings common stock will trade on the New York Stock Exchange under the current ticker symbol “XRX”, formerly used by Xerox. 
Subsequent to the Reorganization, Xerox Holdings contributed the Xerox Series B Preferred Stock it held to Xerox in exchange for additional capital and Xerox subsequently extinguished the Series B Preferred Stock. The contribution and extinguishment were recorded at carrying value. In addition, the capital structure of Xerox was modified such that its issued and outstanding common shares now held by Xerox Holdings were exchanged for 1,000 shares of Xerox $1 par value common stock. Accordingly, we reclassified approximately $221 from Xerox’s Common stock to Additional paid-in capital. 
In March 2019, as part of Project Own It, we entered into a shared services arrangement with HCL Technologies (HCL) pursuant to which we are outsourcing certain global administrative and support functions, including, among others, selected information technology and finance functions (excluding accounting). The transition of these functions to HCL is expected to take up to 18 months. HCL is expected to make certain up-front and ongoing investments in software, tools and other technology to consolidate, optimize and automate the transferred functions with the goal of providing improved service levels and significant cost savings. The shared services arrangement with HCL includes a total aggregate spending commitment by us of approximately $1.3 billion over the next 7 years. However, we can terminate the arrangement at any time at our discretion, subject to payment of termination fees that decline over the term or for cause. The spending commitment excludes restructuring and related costs we are expected to incur in connection with the transition of the contemplated functions - refer to Note 12 - Restructuring Programs for additional information. The transfer of employees associated with the HCL arrangement in certain countries is subject to compliance with works council and other employment regulatory requirements in those countries, which may delay the transfer as well as the expected savings from the arrangement. 
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-15, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other - Internal Use Software (Subtopic 350-40), Customer's Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That is a Service Contract. This update aligns the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software (and hosting arrangements that include an internal-use software license). The update provides criteria for determining which implementation costs to capitalize as an asset related to the service contract and which costs to expense. The capitalized implementation costs are required to be expensed over the term of the hosting arrangement. The update also clarifies the presentation requirements for reporting such costs in the entity’s financial statements. This update is effective for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2020. We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of ASU 2018-15 on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
On January 1, 2019, we adopted ASU 2016-02, Leases (ASC Topic 842). This update, as well as additional amendments and targeted improvements issued in 2018 and early 2019, supersedes existing lease accounting guidance found under ASC 840, Leases (“ASC 840”) and requires the recognition of right-to-use assets and lease obligations by lessees for those leases originally classified as operating leases under prior lease guidance. Effective with the adoption, leases are classified as either finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition. Short term leases with a term of 12 months or less are not required to be recognized. The update also requires qualitative and quantitative disclosure of key information regarding the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leasing arrangements to increase transparency and comparability among companies. The accounting for lessors does not fundamentally change with this update except for changes to conform and align guidance to the lessee guidance, as well as to the revenue recognition guidance in ASU 2014-09. Some of these conforming changes, such as those related to the definition of lease term and minimum lease payments, resulted in certain lease arrangements, that would have been previously accounted for as operating leases, to be classified and accounted for as sales-type leases with a corresponding up-front recognition of equipment sales revenue. 
Upon adoption we applied the transition option, whereby prior comparative periods are not retrospectively presented in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. We also elected the package of practical expedients not to reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs and the lessee practical expedient to combine lease and non-lease components for certain asset classes (real estate lease arrangements for offices and warehouses). Additionally, we made a policy election to not recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases for all asset classes. We elected the package of practical expedients from both the Lessee and Lessor prospective, to the extent applicable. 
Operating lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at the commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term. Since the implicit rate for most of our leases is not readily determinable, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at the commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments. The incremental borrowing rate is the rate of interest that we would have to pay to borrow, on a collateralized basis, an amount equal to the lease payments, in a similar economic environment and over a similar term. The rate is dependent on several factors, including the lease term and currency of the lease payments.
Lease terms used to calculate the present value of lease payments generally do not include any options to extend, renew, or terminate the lease, as we do not have reasonable certainty at lease inception that these options will be exercised. We generally consider the economic life of our operating lease ROU assets to be comparable to the useful life of similar owned assets. We have elected the short-term lease exception, therefore operating lease ROU assets and liabilities do not include leases with a lease term of twelve months or less. Our leases generally do not provide a residual guarantee. The operating lease ROU asset also excludes lease incentives. 
Lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. We have lease agreements with lease and non-lease components. These components are accounted for separately for vehicle and equipment leases. We account for the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component for real estate leases of offices and warehouses. 


item2.txt
To understand the trends in our business, we believe that it is helpful to analyze the impact of changes in the translation of foreign currencies into U.S. Dollars on revenue and expenses. We refer to this analysis as "constant currency", “currency impact” or “the impact from currency.” This impact is calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period's currency translation rate. This impact is calculated for all countries where the functional currency is the local country currency. We do not hedge the translation effect of revenues or expenses denominated in currencies where the local currency is the functional currency. Management believes the constant currency measure provides investors an additional perspective on revenue trends. Currency impact can be determined as the difference between actual growth rates and constant currency growth rates.
Second quarter 2019 Net income attributable to Xerox increased $69 million as compared to second quarter 2018 primarily due to lower Transaction and related costs, net and higher Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates. In addition, lower revenues were offset by the continued benefits of cost savings and productivity improvements from our Project Own It transformation actions. Second quarter 2019 Adjusted1 net income attributable to Xerox increased 
Net income attributable to Xerox for the six months ended June 30, 2019 increased $179 million as compared to the prior year period primarily due to higher Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates as well as lower Transaction and related costs, net and Income tax expense. The increase also reflected the continued benefits of cost savings and productivity improvements from our Project Own It transformation actions, which offset the impact of lower revenues. These benefits were partially offset by higher Restructuring and related costs. Adjusted1 net income attributable to Xerox for the six months ended June 30, 2019 increased $61 million as compared to the prior year period. The increase was primarily related to higher Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates as well as increased operating profits reflecting the continued benefits of cost savings and productivity improvements from Project Own It, which more than offset the decline in revenues.
Installs reflect new placement of devices only. Revenue associated with equipment installations may be reflected up-front in Equipment sales or over time either through rental income or as part of our Xerox Services revenues (which are both reported within our post sale revenues), depending on the terms and conditions of our agreements with customers. Installs include activity from Xerox Services and Xerox-branded products shipped to our XBS sales unit. Detail by product group (see Geographic Sales Channels and Product and Offerings Definitions) is shown below.
•12% decrease in mid-range color installs reflecting lower installs of ConnectKey devices. The decrease was significantly impacted by lower activity as a result of the transitional impact associated with recently implemented organizational changes in our XBS sales organization (as part of our Project Own It transformation actions), which included the transitioning of accounts to implement coverage changes, consolidation of real estate locations and the reduction of management layers. The decrease also reflected lower activity and a lack of large deals in EMEA, as well as a challenging comparison against the period with the highest activity growth in the prior year, partially due to the timing of our ConnectKey product launch.
•1% increase in high-end color installs reflecting continued demand for our Iridesse production press in EMEA and higher installs of our inkjet cut-sheet systems. Lower activity from iGen and Versant production systems provided a partial headwind.
•3% decrease in color multifunction devices reflecting lower installs of ConnectKey devices and low-end devices from EMEA, partially offset by higher activity in our indirect channels in the U.S.
•Installs of black-and-white multifunction devices were flat reflecting higher installs of ConnectKey devices, as well as higher activity in our indirect channels in the U.S, offset by lower activity from our EMEA organization, including low-end devices in developing market regions.


item4.txt
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Xerox Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019. See SEC File Number 001-04471.
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to Xerox Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019. See SEC File Number 001-04471.
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019. See SEC File Number 001-39013.
3.4 Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation filed with the Department of State of New York on July 31, 2019.
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019. See SEC File Number 001-39013.


part2.txt
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Xerox Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019. See SEC File Number 001-04471.
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to Xerox Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019. See SEC File Number 001-04471.
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019. See SEC File Number 001-39013.
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019. See SEC File Number 001-39013.
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.3 to Xerox Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019. See SEC File Number 001-04471.


